ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U1	Dear colleagues, Starting the fifth remote emergency sitting on February 18th. On the agenda - draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 934/Lp13) for second, final reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U2	Welcome again, Madam President of the Saeima and colleagues, viewers and listeners! In the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, we have worked hard and actively today and examined this draft law on the second, final reading of the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. A total of 12 proposals were received. 1. - The proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. It shall be prohibited for creditors to submit an application for insolvency proceedings of a legal entity where there are certain features, until 6 April 2021. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U3	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U4	2. - also the proposal from Member Gats Eglitis. The debtor shall not be obliged to submit an application for insolvency proceedings of a legal entity where there are certain features by 1 July 2021. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U5	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U6	3. - Member Pimenova's proposal. In point 62, the word ‘one-off’ is replaced by ‘monthly’. This proposal is not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U7	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U8	Good evening, honourable Members, honourable Members! Proposal No 3 and Proposal No 4 are interrelated. The money support provided for in the draft law is to be granted in order to alleviate the burden on parents of children in the circumstances of an emergency. Therefore, the period during which the aid is planned to be granted ends with the end of the declared emergency situation limiting the prevalence of Covid-19. However, in addition to the restrictions provided for in the emergency regime, which the Cabinet of Ministers is carrying out, also by amending the decision on declaring the emergency situation, the Saeima adopted amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection on 18 December of the previous year, the Cabinet of Ministers has received an additional delegation to establish restrictions in case of threat of the spread and spread of Covid-19 infection also outside the emergency situation or after the end of the emergency situation. In the meantime, it is obvious that the threat of the spread or spread of infection can continue after the emergency has ended and that the need for assistance from parents will remain as acute. I therefore call on the country not to limit itself to one-off support, however generous it may be, but to take care of those who raise a child and to provide the benefit provided for in Article 63 on a regular, monthly basis, until the threat of infection disappears. I understand that the amount of EUR 180 million is already high, and at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance (Tax) colleagues have repeatedly pointed out this to me, but the draft law itself also raises questions, namely, why, for example, the granting of one-off aid is subject to conditions such as the end of the emergency situation, why, in general, in a law where reference is already made to overcoming the effects of the spread of infection, it should be pointed out that it is to be granted exactly during a period which is equal to the emergency situation. If - and I repeat - the government sets limits that will last longer, certainly the same problems will remain in families afterwards. That is why I urge - and I would at least like to raise this problem - that, although my proposal seems challenging, it should be supported, so that we can then come back to it, in order to address this problem in a crucial way, by allocating a higher amount than what is now laid down in the draft law for the needs of the family after the end of the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U9	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U10	Dear colleagues, Although, initially, Mr Pimenova's proposal seems to be such a provocative, challenging proposal, I would like to point out, however, that there is a great deal of wisdom in this proposal. I agree that this support must be paid out every month for the time the government loses its mind, because the damage that the government has done to families for almost a year already has to be compensated in some way. If you had the courage to support this proposal, it is likely that this proposal would also mobilise the government to collect and put an end to both the emergency situation and the restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers in a month's time. You will pay this allowance once, and you will not want to pay it yet, and that is why you will simply end with all the restrictions - 25 square meters, prohibit education of interests, ban camera smoking and everything else. I will therefore support this proposal and call on the other colleagues (also from the opposition) to support this proposal because, as I said, it contains a very large part of this... such sensible approaches, because the government has to pay for what it is doing at the moment. These all benefits, these soft allowances, which are paid to people - they are not enough... Not at all. If we're talking about the same hairdressers, let's take... Well, 300 euros they get an allowance, but they have to pay rent for the study they rent. They're gonna have to come back somewhere. They have permanent contracts with suppliers, but they have to take away their goods on a regular basis, so that cooperation does not end, and many other things are needed by people to try and survive something about this break that the government has put on. And that must be the responsibility. The Emergency Act also provides that persons have the right to turn to the government with an invitation to compensate for any damage caused by restrictions and that the government does not have the right to waive its obligation. That is why I also believe that it is necessary to pay for my decisions, for my folly. As we can see, the government has not even taken into its head at any time what we have been talking to you today at the Saeima sitting, continuing to experiment by pulling the circles around the chickens... and triangle: now we will have another effect from having stronger constraints in one area. I call on you to support this proposal, no matter how strange it may be for anyone, but there is nothing strange about it, because very soon... very soon you will come - Mr Butane probably also - with a call to support once again the slippery airBaltic. And there you will not have to be afraid of how huge amounts will now have to be spent from the state budget, because airBaltic needs money, but families with children will have enough for once. I call on you, colleagues! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U11	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U12	Hello again, colleagues! Yes, I think this proposal by Igor Pimenov is not quite... is not fully developed, because it is not clear why a monthly allowance would be needed from now on, because if we are talking about an emergency situation, it has been for a long time. And Member Igor Pimenov should have envisaged and made it clear in his proposal that this benefit should actually also be paid for the months that have already passed because, if we can pay the one-off allowance (180 million), I wonder why we could not also pay this allowance for all the previous months of the emergency situation. At the same time, perhaps if people are very satisfied with this order, the government could still be asked to extend the period of emergency for much more months, because then the assessment of the government's work would certainly be much higher than it is today. I am calling for this not to be supported, because I do not think it is the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U13	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U14	Of course, when someone who represents a coalition in a government says that he thinks that, of course, it causes if not to be thrilled, then at least in terms of the community of hope. But, Mr Butane, perhaps you try to answer yourself from the beginning why exactly now, right now, you have decided to pay the children this 500 euros. And then you may also have an answer why we are talking about it at all. Otherwise, either hypocritically or, excuse me, schizophrenicly, all you are talking about right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U15	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U16	Hello, colleagues! I have a great request from Mr Butan. When, of course, he will be ready (and I hope it will be soon and he will be well prepared), this question will tell us how much then he will ask airBaltic for the next time. It's gonna be every month? This will be EUR 300 million again? More? You better tell us about this, Mr. Butane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U18	I too, my fellow Members, wanted to turn to our honourable Mr. Butane, a colleague who made various comments, or shouldn't have been given a retroactive date at all... You know, Mr Bhutan, you are right, you should have had a retroactive date and you should have needed these support mechanisms much faster than just now, when the government's assessment of the work is close to the level of the bear... only then wake up. Colleagues, these forms of support have long been needed. And what Mr. Pimenova has tabled is, in my opinion, very welcome. Of course, the many millions that it would pay were said in the Commission, but at the same time, as Mrs Stepanenko has already said, the substance of this proposal is to draw attention to the fact that these support mechanisms will continue to be necessary. And not as long as the state of emergency is in force, but as long as these restrictions are in force. After the emergency, restrictions may still exist, and these people will need support. This one, which we will vote on today, is just the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U19	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U20	Yes, thank you, colleagues. Well, Mr. Butane shouldn't have spoken, I think, because he talked things like that... I abstained during the meeting of the Commission because indeed the financial contribution to this proposal is quite impressive. But in the context of Mr. Butane and his argument “Why not sooner”. Why the state covers the New Conservative Party for entertainment or... I do not know how to name them delicately, the attractions of Mr Bordan in relation to the Freeport of Ventspils and the fact that it was necessary now from public funds to examine the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission and to allocate 15.3 million extra to provide loans, because all the banks that financed these projects in the Freeport of Ventspils refused to do so. It is the most direct harmful act done by the political power and leader of the New Conservative Party as such. And now all citizens - taxpayers - are jointly responsible for such moves. What is it? And now that we are talking about real support for citizens who are unique, let us say that, to put it mildly, such demagogy begins from the New Conservative Party and Mr Butane. Indeed, we invest 200 million in airBaltic and we are likely to invest as much in the irons (we will invest close 200 million in Latvia's railways), which are in terrible condition. And it is likely that in the future it will have to be from the state budget and also from the taxpayers. You know, the political moves that the new Conservative Party has actually done to the country are being paid by all citizens, the children who we are now deciding on... support for families. Now it's a nonsense! That is why Mr Pimenova's proposal will probably have to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U21	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U22	You know what, Mr. Butane? The law should be adopted... It should be assumed by law that your transport compensation (at your three and how many thousand wages) that you are asking for in the Saeima (EUR 40 or how much) should also be granted to children. And I hope, Mr Bhutan, at least during the crisis you are part of, or even part of - I know you need more - even EUR 20 from this transport compensation to children. Before you prove to Mr. Pimenova whether the children in Latvia needed benefits... Yes, the 11th euro and how many of their cents in Latvia, for decades children needed allowances, support so that children would want to be born in Latvia, Mr. Butans! When you have children, you will understand. While you do not, I would advise you to keep your mouth under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U23	So, Mr Gobzem, I am reprimanding you. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U24	Dear colleagues, I would like to add that the political power of Mr. Butane is to blame for this EUR 500 for children... Very many families will have to look for computers for school lessons for these 500 euros, with more money, at least 100, because they have still not received any support, no computers from the Ministry of Education and Science. And we don't have to blame local governments, because local governments simply pass these things on to families. You have not provided computers to very many families in Latvia, very many. We'll count how many families you've cheated on. That is why these 500 euros, about which you are so much fried now and which you will now advertise on each room, will be spent on removing the consequences of your behaviour in most families. And again, Mr Butan, I understand that you have addressed the same specialists you spoke to when we talked about masking things for children. I remember your quote, but this quote is not included in the parliamentary verb because it is too rude. You said that if you want to go to a doctor, you go to Mr Skride, but if you want to go to those so-called... (and the points below) - you were not shown at the time - then you turn to them. I see that you've received a thorough consultation on these beautiful... ( Three points) and you were very well done this time. Please come in again and tell us, we will very much await your arguments. Thank you. I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U25	The name to Member Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U26	Yes, I would also like to remind you that I was told that I had to keep my mouth under control. There was no rude word. Mr. Butane... How much... Mrs. Moore, you remember, you led the sitting, Mr. Butane said...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U27	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U28	In the Commission... As Mr Pimenova has already said, the proposal is indeed very challenging, and after the debate the Commission rejected it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 21, for - 56, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U30	4. - also the proposal from Member Pimenova. Changes in the time-frame for the regulation of aid are foreseen. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U31	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U32	Yeah, thank you. In fact, Proposal No 4 is linked, as I said, to Proposal No 3, and I have explained, on the basis of which I have done so. However, although organically linked to proposal 3, proposal 4 has its own weight. I would not do so if the end of the emergency situation was not mentioned under the condition for granting the allowance. Why is the grant of the allowance related to the end of the emergency? If this is important, let us remember that lifting the emergency situation does not mean lifting the restrictions imposed by the government, they may continue for as long as the government deems necessary. And so there is no belief that the problems that parents now face when raising their children will not be exhausted in everyday life. Therefore, if that deadline is important, I am calling for the phrase ending in Article 62 to be replaced and the end of that period, namely ‘in view of the end of the emergency situation declared by the Covid-19’, on the other hand, ‘in view of the threat of the spread or spread of Covid-19 infection, the restrictions imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers’. Well then it will be all clear why perhaps one-off too, but this benefit has been granted. Please support my proposal. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U33	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U34	Dear colleagues, I understand that we are all tired, but nevertheless, personal attitudes should probably not prevail over work, over collegiality. But if we are talking about the proposal and the continuation of Mr Pimenova's, let us say to this debate, I would also like to remind our honourable colleagues and also those who are watching this parliamentary sitting that nothing will end with the end of the emergency. Nothing will end with the end of the emergency, because indeed, as Mr. Pimenova pointed out, the powers of the Cabinet are now unlimited. We are, in fact, living in a country where Parliament has no say at all. You also saw this in the Saeima sitting today. And the Cabinet of Ministers has the right to continue these restrictions, to figure out new restrictions, and even more so - the Cabinet of Ministers has no obligation to compensate these restrictions. We saw this in practice on the limitations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which were adopted in October with regard to teachers of interest education. Teachers of interest education have still not received any cent for these prohibitions, which were introduced before the start of the emergency - no one themselves! The only thing they received is a misunderstanding and amazement: “How, can’t you take your swimming lessons away?” That was the answer. I therefore call on you to also draw attention to this issue and to make it clear that families will then also need to be supported - when the emergency situation comes to an end. An emergency will not put an end to nightmares and restrictions. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U35	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U36	In the Commission, proposal 4 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U37	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 4. - Pimenova's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U38	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The wording of Article 62 shall be clarified and supplemented. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U40	6. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Changes in the level and application of aid shall be foreseen. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U41	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U42	Dear colleagues, This proposal, like these four draft laws, which we are proposing to you today and which led to the Government's desire to act more quickly on child benefits, encouraged us to present with no one other than the same parliamentary colleagues who voted against their own proposals today. We are talking about "Development/About!" , for colleagues from “Development/About!” In particular, Maria Golubeva mentioned last week that “Development/About!” supports this €500 allowance for children, but this support should be extended and increased to families with disabilities respectively. Mrs Golubeva offered EUR 250. She made a roll of advertising, a press release was launched, and the whole public learned that Development/About! is the political power that takes great, very, care of children with disabilities from the heart. Also mentioned were single parents and pensioners. But let us focus on this particular question! We presented a bill that provided for this one-off additional allowance for families with children with disabilities, not EUR 500, but EUR 1000. We estimate that this additional premium will only cost a little over EUR 7.9 million from the state budget, a little bit compared with all the spending currently taking place in the government and coming to the Saeima for approval. However, contrary to their position, further support for families with children with disabilities - and, if I am not mistaken, today's groups on Development/Par! Members have told us a lot about the needs of these families and how much parents need additional support - contrary to what has been said now, everyone is silent. Contrary to everything said, all "Development/About!" Members voted 'no' to the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. In the same way, the National Association voted against. ‘ Against’ the Group of the KPV LV voted. Dear colleagues, I'm calling... Yeah, I forgot, there's such a new one... Correctly, they also voted against. I call, honourable colleagues, on this proposal to support because this proposal is necessary for families whose daily expenses are not connected with luxury things or additional entertainment - these daily expenses are necessary for the maintenance of the child, for the support of the child, for the treatment of the child. These parents dream that they could collect EUR 2 000 to buy a children's seat, which is still something that we all together, the government, the Saeima, cannot... We cannot find the money for these things, no matter how many times we have asked and made proposals. These families dream of buying specialised furniture and equipment for their children. These families dream of being able to afford an assistant. And you start press releases, start videos, then vote 'no' and - sit now and remain silent. So that this 500 euro and this additional advertisement you launched will then pay you cheese and hard because people remember your vote and we will do everything to make sure that people remember this vote too. Thank you. Colleagues, I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U43	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U44	Colleagues, really, I think times are not easy. For others, it may be easier, harder for others, but for those children who are disabled - and that is the idea included in this proposal - clearly a very difficult situation. Now, if we look at what's more difficult... Today, Mrs Regina Ločmele has already spoken about this issue, and Julia has spoken about it several times today. But there is no real counter-substantiation from the position why this cannot be supported. Of course, this has budgetary implications, of course, cannot be denied. But, in our view - and we will support this proposal today - it should nevertheless be found in the resources that are not provided for in the national budget, no matter which pocket, but it should be found that, at the moment, we can actually help people more, because help is needed. Similarly, we in the Group of the Greens/Family Union have already tabled another draft law on support for seniors, which we will be looking at in the next sittings. And there, just like here, money is needed, money will have to be searched, and the government's task is to find these resources, especially at this time. What is here is something that I do not understand really is the public communication that the representatives of the political parties expressed... advertised, announced in various ways that such proposals... including that they will support that this is what it should be, but it is now very suspiciously silent. Now would be the moment. I call on my colleagues from Development/About! and all those who talked about it, come and tell us what has changed, which are the reasons why you cannot support this proposal, because we all saw that many, including us, colleagues in the Saeima, had an interesting communication with what can and cannot be done for 500 euros. This would be the right place to listen to those arguments why you do not support such a proposal, on which you yourself have shown before that this is the right way and should be the right way forward, and the right support would be exactly that. Such a proposal has been tabled, colleagues! I call on us to support this proposal, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U45	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U46	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, In addition to what my fellow Members said earlier, I would certainly call for this proposal to be supported, because at the moment, at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic, it is difficult not only for families whose children are at home, when their parents work as educators, teachers' assistants, helping in training during a remote process, working as cooks, actually sacrificing their whole life so that they can now provide their children with a future and not take away the opportunity, but for parents whose children have disabilities - and not only physical disability, including mental disability - is particularly difficult. I think many of you know how problematic it is to work with assistants at the moment, also in view of this limitation that people are not from one household, there are several restrictions, and these people are also self-isolated. This moment for families where the child has a disability is very, very difficult. This proposal provides for very reasonable support; it does not constitute space aid. We did not vote on the previous two proposals, and we have logical reason to be friends. This proposal is really, colleagues, very, very important, and it absolutely does not have a huge impact on the national budget if we look at what amounts the state spends on Covid-19 in general. How much money we have spent on various researches, how to make salads and the like, which, as a result, no one needs it. We buy for tens of thousands of furniture for the vaccination office at a time when very many ministries, state capital companies, institutions work away from home and office furniture and equipment are available, and so on. But here, in this proposal, we are talking about families raising children with disabilities. Indeed, colleagues support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U47	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U48	Like in the morning, I will ask you to support this proposal. I will call on all the political groups, all Members to make the government find them slightly over seven million so that families raising children with disabilities receive an increased lump sum to the family allowance of EUR 1000. Once, because seven million are made up of... For example, from the sum one million... I will now show you what is one million in our country. You could read a two-day-old Lsm.lv news about the fact that the former communication company Tet (it is the former Lattelecom) with the state capital... The company received income from the company last year, i.e. remuneration, as well as compensation for leaving one million euros. One million is one seventh of what we could give today to families with children with disabilities. Thank God, the head of airBaltic, Mr Gauss, refused to pay at all during the crisis, but let us not forget that so far his salary was more than one million euros a year, and he could also count how many million he received before. Now, in times of crisis, he cannot run his business in such a way that he does not hold back. I will not talk about airBaltic's activities and why they are flying from Lithuania and Estonia and why Estonia and Lithuania are taking care of their tourism industry, but Latvia is outside this competition, and our tourists are flying from Estonia and Lithuania to the same Egypt and so on. This is another serious conversation. At the moment, there is a serious discussion about whether we really understand that families with children do need special support, and if we have a helicopter's money as EUR 500 per child, then I think it is absolutely logical that this amount should be higher for children with disabilities. Of course not all Members are interested in what it is about disability and what the costs are for these families to make their baby happy, and how expensive it costs in Latvia. In Latvia, for example, parents are forced to spend up to 600-700 euros per month on special educators, special courses and so on. It is not even furniture, it is not a chair for a car, simply for a child to develop, because the state does not provide this help, does not give this opportunity. I am not talking about logopedics, children with speech delay, who need very expensive and fine operations, which are not always available in Latvia. I ask you, absolutely all Members, very much to do this step, and I think it could be the best you could do today, just today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U49	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U50	Colleagues, I went to such a portal Ziedot.lv, and, you know, the first thing we get out is “Support for Special Children”: “Children with cerebral stroke are a Covid–19 risk group, because spastic infection seriously threatens breathing. We will help you get safe rehabilitation in your home!” Honored National Association, honored by “Development/About!” , UK, NEW UNIT, CPV LV (Sound disturbance.) ... advertising (Loud disorder) ... 500 euros... at the same time let the Ziedot.lv portal collect money for such a very self-evident thing...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U51	Mrs Stepanenko, I'll stop you. A technical break is required for time. Your words in the last two minutes were quite incomprehensible. How long do you need a technical break, IT part? How much? 10 minutes? That's 10. Dear colleagues, technical break until 7.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U52	Dear colleagues, So we can keep sitting after the break. I call on Mrs Stepanenko to apply again to the system. The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U53	Yes, thank you, colleagues. So I remind you once again that currently portal Ziedot.lv collects donations for some purpose. If we open it, we can see “Support for special children”: “Children with cerebral stroke are at risk of Covid–19, because spastic infection seriously endangers breathing. We will help you get safe rehabilitation in your home!” Ladies and gentlemen, as long as donations from society are collected for such self-evident purposes, you do not have any moral right to advertise your commitment to giving families these EUR 500 benefits for their money. We see the parties currently advertising before the municipal elections. Full-time advertising. The President of the National Union, Raivis Dzintars, says that children must receive EUR 500 and so on, and so on. Mrs Golubeva says that children with special needs must receive an additional allowance. It's all... all this advertising before the municipal elections... We guarantee you that every future initiative with which you will come to the Saeima to increase the budget deficit to borrow money for airBaltic or for the rest of the... We will remind you of this EUR 7.9 million each time, which you have mercy on these children, these families. You never... you will never be able to wash away from the fact that you advertise with this initiative, but have not provided this additional support for children, which is provided for in Article 110 of the Satversme: the state must take care of such families more than others. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U54	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U55	In the Commission, proposal 6 was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U56	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 35, for - 44, for - 10. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U57	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Article 63 shall be clarified and supplemented in editorial terms. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U58	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U59	8 / 8 - also a proposal from the Legal Office. The rules on non-taxation of aid and the fact that it is not subject to withholding and debt recovery are merged. The Commission supports this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U60	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U61	9. - also a proposal from the Legal Office. Specifies the stipulation... technical and editorial... Article 67. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U63	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is envisaged that the proposed Articles 67 and 68 of the draft law be excluded. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U64	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U65	11. - Member Dombrovskis' additional proposal. Provision shall be made for a zero rate of VAT for the supply of food for public catering and accommodation services in tourist accommodation. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U66	Members have asked for a vote. And they have also applied for a debate. Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U67	Highly honored Chairman of the Saeima. I have asked, above all, for these two articles to be separated as two separate votes. I think it was not right to draw up a table in this way, putting them together in two proposals. Next, colleagues, I... Why should we speak today, among other things, about the first one (Not heard.) ... on the application of a zero rate of VAT to public catering which is known to... the sector is working only on food supplies due to the restrictions currently in place, and cannot do so on the spot. And secondly, why the same zero VAT rate should also apply to hotels. Colleagues, what we are talking about today is a 500-euro allowance for every child - that is the beginning of the end of the so-called reironomics. We are all very well aware that this idea was initially not supported by the government and that it was only supported after a huge indignation and great pressure on the government appeared in society. We see why it was not initially supported, because some of us have rightly pointed to it... We are talking here about one large loan of EUR 182 million, which both parents and children will then, of course, have to repay. And this allowance is granted to all families regardless of the amount of their income, whether or not the families are present or how much they have suffered in this pandemic. Why was this decision finally applied for? Because even coalition partners, even the government, and even Prime Minister Kariņš, have finally realized that the Ministry of Finance, the government as a whole, is not capable of making a targeted policy, is not able to set criteria that would work. So you realized that if you're not actually a doctor, then there's no point talking about the scalpel, then you can only throw money out of the helicopter. And this, my fellow Members, is the beginning of the end of the “reironomics”. If we're already talking about... if we are already seeing the beginning of this'reironomics' at the end of today, then we should focus on another very important achievement of'reironomics', that is to say, the principle rejection of the use of tax policy to promote or assist one or the other sector. That is why we are talking here today about those two sectors - catering and hotels - which, as we know, have been hit hardest by this pandemic and all these government restrictions; that in many companies, the drop in turnover is up to 90 percent of the highest point. Therefore, colleagues, it is absolutely clear, first and foremost, that if we are talking about sectors - public catering and hotels - which have a fall in turnover of up to 90 percent, it is immoral, colleagues, in general, to apply taxes, any taxes, requiring any tax to be paid from these sectors. That's a point first, colleagues. The second point. There is a real economy, unlike the "reironomics", which is practiced in government. According to the real economy, colleagues, if we reduce tax, value added tax, it has an impact on price, it allows for a reduction in price. The reduced price means more demand, more demand means more turnover. In other words, it helps companies to purge themselves out of this crisis, it helps them survive. That is why it is right, colleagues, to apply a zero rate of VAT to these sectors - public catering and hotels. It is not only right morally, colleagues, but it is right from an economic point of view as well. Do not mix with “reironomics”! Therefore, my fellow Members, I call first of all on the Bureau to separate this vote from two separate articles and to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U68	Thank you. Colleagues, we will conclude the debate on this proposal and then, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we will decide on the proposal to examine the 11th proposal in separate paragraphs. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U69	Yes, unfortunately, this draft law, as usual, is being received by us at the last moment, just put it in front of us and say, "Vote!" And I really would be very interested that those people who voted against this proposal in the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission now come to the debate and explain why your smart and smart commission did not support this proposal. Just, well, that's what I mean... Anyone who follows someone who understands something from the economy will now be... It's gonna be... Well, I usually tell you anecdotes here, but now this will be a real anecdotes, because, colleagues, if you can't tell now, that means you just accept... as stupid as all other decisions on this crisis. Why are they stupid and irresponsible? Because we are currently talking about a sector that has almost no turnover, which has fallen. So in essence, to make this industry work to start breathing, to start earning for the economy to turn, you are offered to just remove this value added tax. It offers you a fiscally neutral solution, that is, not even a fiscally neutral one, in fact it will be fiscally positive, because you are still getting nothing at the moment. So you are offered not to tax what you still do not get at the moment. And offers it to make it possible to get something begins to turn the economy and start taxes coming in, other taxes start to come in, plus you will have to pay less benefits, less will have to pay out taxes. And plus even more in parallel, if you now think really actually use the hotel for quarantine, then you will have to pay less for these hotels yourself. So, colleagues, I would like someone from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission who voted against this proposal to apply. If you do not apply, it will simply be another obvious example of how irresponsible, sorry, too stupid you are to decide on this crisis. And in fact, it is you, the ruling coalition, that your government is the main cause of the spread of this disease with its unthinkable, inadequate decisions. If that is not the case, please apply for a debate and disprove it. Otherwise, the whole society will be seen as proof of what I have just said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U70	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U71	Good evening, Madam President, colleagues. I call for support for this proposal, also looking at other government actions, with certain additional funding resources. This proposal will prevent, for example, such government action: when teachers were finally granted pay for work at a distance or in community conditions (no matter even what) and the period was almost... for six months and a few more, out of these premiums, which were a few million from a national perspective, some teachers actually received only EUR 10. Why? Because, of course, they paid all taxes on the pay-as-you-go premiums. This proposal really is to avoid this kind of approach by supporting one hand to give and to cut off with the other what is given to prevent it from being repeated. And I would probably ask you to change the approach, when you talk about the future actions of the government, so that, at the same time, teachers, if you were to grant some kind of support, it would not then be formed as a tax refund. And then the teachers will really appreciate this country and the parties concerned as if they care about the education sector. I call for support for this proposal and for a second proposal in the event of a split. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U72	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U73	Yes, a rational proposal. In spring, April, last year, economists warned that restaurants and hotels were in the worst position compared to other sectors. They do not have much to do with peace, but when the crisis begins, the situation gets very sad. Mostly restaurants and hotels live at the expense of turnover. Knowing how much of the number of clients has decreased for both, economists have warned: the main aim is to prevent the sectors that I have named from starting insolvency proceedings. After that, it will be very difficult to update both the sector in Latvia and the other sector if it is possible to raise the level at which restaurants and hotels operated before 2020. The main thing is to avoid insolvency administrators touching restaurants and hotels. Everything must be done to keep both sectors above water. Therefore, I believe that the proposal of my colleague Dombrovskis is in place, so that we can give them a hand and keep them in the Latvian economy. I call for support for the proposal tabled by Vjačeslav. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U74	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U75	Yes, my fellow Members, this is the right proposal at the right time, in my opinion. I fully agree with Mr Dombrovskis's statement that in this way, we could in particular encourage hotels, headquarters to be able to take advantage of the crisis by ourselves and, with the support of the state, to return to the normal economy. If we look now, the number of people, the number of tourists remaining in the accommodations, has fallen dramatically. Millions are already being spent on the part of the government to provide various forms of support for these accommodations. At the same time, we are clearly seeing - right here in Old Town, at the Freedom Monument, a huge hotel at the moment, I understand whether it is already or is about to be sold. What is specific is that it is already closed, but it still has tax bills. Colleagues! There is a need to go further into the problem, and I have also spoken to the hotel representatives who, I think, have not turned to any of our colleagues. And it is the tax issue that the hotel representatives emphasize as one of the main issues that they have at the moment when dealing with various issues of idle benefits or... to solve problems with employees - even without releasing them, dealing with it. The biggest blow that is - taxes. And taxes - of them, it looks like no way to go. If we look at this future perspective, we will be very uncompetitive among the Baltic countries, in my view, if we do not send out clear signals that we are ready to make changes and make our offer more competitive. As Mr Pimenova said, if we live so far that we allow this business to fail, then it will be very, very difficult to make sense of it. Therefore, my fellow Members, I am calling for both the first and the second - divided - proposal to be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U76	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U77	Dear colleagues, However, I will try again to appeal to your conscience and now to some self-preserve instinct. We're all here, colleagues, like that, actually in the greenhouse. Our income has not fallen. You know that many of you, colleagues, even though we are working in remote mode (and I see that many of you are sitting at home), use transport compensation almost in the same way as without remote work. And the people know and see all this. We are talking about those who are really fighting for survival. You try to enter a cafe or hotel. They're fighting for survival, they're paying for electricity, they're paying for room rent, employees. They're fighting for survival. And now you want to say with your “reironomics” that they have to pay that they should have the same tax burden as everyone else. Seriously, colleagues? The nation will know how you will now vote on this proposal. After that, colleagues, when it's over, will you not be afraid to go to cafes and restaurants? You don't know what they're gonna put in that kitchen, you don't know. Think a little bit forward, colleagues! Think about yourself! Think about it, you can't go to either a cafe or a restaurant afterwards. I call you if not from common sense... from the point of view of common sense. Think about yourself and don't hurt yourself, colleagues! Support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U78	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U79	Well, I specifically applied for a second time to enable coalition colleagues to get here, come here and apply for a debate. And if it really is this decision that you have now taken, this rejection is not your next stupid and irresponsible decision in relation to the Covid crisis, then you now have the opportunity to justify it and deny it. At the same time, I would also call for an explanation of your wise and intelligent mindset: airBaltic found you more than 250 million, while you do not want to grant even tax relief to the hospitality industry. We're not talking about giving money... simple to exempt taxes. So tell me, please, where do you think they, this airBaltic, will lead tourists? Where will they live? Where will they eat? What was your genius's move - 250 million discarded airBaltic. How will this money come back? Unless the idea is that you simply have to make this good deal for someone to buy planes, because in large numbers, those 250 million will not already be in our economy. They will go into the economy of other countries, so that we can finance the construction of planes, which will have no place to fly, and there will be no place to go. Colleagues, if this is not your irresponsible and stupid decision, come here and prove it. If - no, then it is possible that it is not only irresponsible and stupid, but also really you already think of some specific other business sector, let's say, insolvency... provide your sponsors with a new business. If that is not the case, please come here and disprove. If - no, your silence will prove this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U80	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U81	Colleagues, first of all, I would also like to point out that this is not the first time that two proposals are put together in the table, which should be voted separately, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance (taxes). Whether it's some kind of abomination to the opposition or something not to teach, I really... I find it hard to say, but we also had this experience. Maybe we have to do a little better. Here, too, I would like to support my colleagues' proposal. And you, honourable colleagues, have the opportunity to think about this proposal, you will have a little more time to think about it, maybe you could also change your opinion, but it is clear that Latvia could be one of the few countries that do not try to facilitate tax policy for their taxpayers in any way. What hope do we have? How do we look forward to restoring the economy? Do you really think that we will continue to live on debt, to borrow, to borrow, to give a bit to families, then to give airBaltic again, to pay the salary to Tet's chef, and to continue rolling. You probably do not understand that the Treasury will have to pay taxes paid by the taxpayer, which they must also be able to pay, and not that you will recover from them by subtracting the restaurant, taking away the property because... Just, well, there will be no more people here. I don't know who will pay you those taxes afterwards. That is why this particularly lenient regime offered by our colleagues is also the best way to allow the economy to recover. The number of entrepreneurs in this field will increase afterwards... either, not increasing, but at least remaining at the previous level. We just have to hope for it. Then you will be able to pay back the loan, which you have now taken - for children - and perhaps once again airBaltic will save. You don't know anything. I therefore call on you, honourable colleagues, to support this proposal. If - no, then you still have time to think about a few days. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U82	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U83	Yes, good evening, colleagues! In fact, I am a little surprised at my colleagues in the opposition, who hope that the position will vote in favour of the people of Latvia. This is not a statement of support for the people of Somalia or any other people somewhere else. That is how we solidarityed... Well, the proposal has been incorrectly written, there was something to be done that solidarity with someone else in another country, then maybe it would support our local people. That's the first chapter. The second section - from Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. I realized that ‘reironomic’ is an economic way in which everything is done to prevent those who need it from helping. And it doesn't surprise me. I have understood this year that this is, in fact, a government and coalition plan. Well, I guess you're asking her... Such a plan has to be fulfilled by Kariņš with the whole coalition, obviously their hosts give such a task that no one else in any other country needs strong Latvia, needs weak, empty Latvia, because our people as cheap labour are beneficial in all other countries, also in those countries that are host country to our country leaders. I think it's a very conscious act, that it's not a coincidence that it's not just like that... Well, some stupidity, incompetentness, and so on. I think that, very consciously, our country is being watered through a bubble. Our entrepreneurs are not defended in almost any sector. Well, not almost - in no sector! And it comes out to everyone. The shock remains only in the section that it will not be allowed to glide from the mountain onto the tyre. But economically it is absolutely clear - absolutely conscious action. The only thing that the coalition is going to do is to express support for other nations in other countries and to do what the country of Latvia doesn't have better than to do. Not better than anything that would apply to the people of our country... They don't solve it, they don't consciously solve it! - these problems. Children with disabilities are not given, restaurants, hotels are not helping, small businesses are not helping, no one is helping. People don't help. They have to stand now at minus 20 degrees, they will still stand, I don't know, until Ligo festival will stand, the fires will probably be at supermarkets. There is no point in discussing this at all. Here go to the whole bank. It is a very conscious act; it is not a coincidence. People also need to understand that it is a journey to the whole bank, so that our country actually goes bankrupt. Let our people go bankrupt. To be a cheap labour force for Germans, Swedes, no matter even Poles and Estonians. It's a shame to look at it. But, well, the only hope I have is that they won't get away. All these people will not escape. They won't get away with it. They think they're gonna get away, but it usually ends up very bad. Those who think so confident that everything will be... that they will be able to continue as always... Their self-confidence... This is my greatest hope that they will not disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U84	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U85	On behalf of the Commission, I would like to inform you that I have just checked the application of the proposal in the Saeima system and I call for the committee's consultants not to be hurt, because it is obvious that the proposal from the applicants is not clear and precise. I therefore call for a decision to be made on how to divide the proposal so that the proposal as a whole is correctly formulated. Thank you. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U86	Yes, thank you for the report on behalf of the Commission. Thus, Member Dombrovskis has made a proposal to decide, in accordance with Rule 133 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the 11th proposal by instalments. So we must vote on this proposal from Mr Dombrovskis. One Member may speak on this proposal 'for', one against'. Please open the procedure section to be able to apply. Members have not applied to speak about or against. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the split-up of proposal 11, that is to say, separate paragraphs 69 and 70! Please vote mode! For - 33, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal to vote in the 11th part is therefore not supported. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 11. - the proposal tabled by Members Dombrovskis and Papules! Please, let's vote! For - 34, for - 53, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U87	12. - a proposal from Members Dombrovskis and Papule. Provision shall be made for supplementing the transitional provisions. Related to the previous proposal and not put to the vote. There is no support in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U88	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U89	Dear colleagues, I am not surprised that you are so loyal to this “reuronomics”, but I call on both you and those who listen to us to think about the following. So you - just to give a few examples - have not long supported the allocation of more than EUR 280 million to airBaltic. In addition, I think we're soon... Soon we will find out that a large part of this money did not even stay in Latvia, most likely, but left for the purchase of new aircraft to Canada. Then we heard the news that the Ministry of Transport... if I am not mistaken, the minister himself said that soon! - airBaltic will seek help again, and the Minister also said that the government would grant this assistance. It was not even about money, how much help airBaltic would need. Immediately, no matter if it's €100, €200, €300 million. The Minister has already said that the government will support, and none of this government - neither the Minister of Finance nor any... No one, no Prime Minister or any other minister - said: “No. This cannot be the case that we are prepared to allocate any amount to airBaltic.” And on this whole background... and I can also talk, of course, about what appropriations go through the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission. Also, with a restricted access stamp - I cannot say that. So, well, I think this government has quite a lot of scandals ahead of it. With the cosmic speed with which this money - millions, tens of millions of euros - is mastered... And on all this background, colleagues, you are not ready to reduce the tax burden on those people - entrepreneurs, employees - by several tens of thousands of people working in companies where turnover falls by 80-90 percent? Where is your conscience, colleagues! Where? Where have you lost it? When? You think this one's never gonna end up sitting here forever? It's time, and you... you will meet, either one or several of these people who work either in public catering or in hotels... one of their family members and you will have to answer them. Do not think that you will be able to avoid this response. You're gonna have to answer for everything, colleagues! That too is the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U90	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U91	Well, let's be honest, airBaltic must let go of the bubble. You don't have to give airBaltic any more money. Look at Lithuania and Estonia. The money that is ejected on airBaltic - we would have gained much more if it had been invested in our road infrastructure. Not even giving people right in the hand, but investing... simply fixing our paths. Estonia and Lithuania do not learn that they do not have their own companies that devour billions, because we could drive billions of them around Latvia like a parquet. And there are already airlines that want to fly in Latvia. I want to sow this idea in society that this investment - in fact, it is not understandable why so huge amounts have to be invested - is no longer economically logical. That's it. It's over. You don't need to help airBaltic with any contact. And it is, in principle, a criminal act - to do so now. We must sell, let go of it to bankruptcy, whatever, and invest the money in our real economy, which is actually bringing us and will bring us much more in the long term, so that we can be able to draw closer to Lithuania and Estonia in some way during our lives. According to all statistics, at the moment it seems unrealistic. Well, it is clear with such a government that it is only moving away, but even with a coherent government in our lives, the people of my age, it is simply not possible to reach and rush Lithuania and Estonia. That is the honest answer. They don't have their own national airline. Lives, lives, and flies. And it's okay. Let us end by simply spending all the funds that we do not already have. We see that there was no money in the Treasury, there was no money in the Treasury to pay out EUR 500 to children. We had to borrow internationally. So it is absolutely clear that airBaltic needs to borrow internationally. The Treasury is empty of many money. There is emptiness, zero, in principle, if international borrowings were to be made for just EUR 500 for children. Let us not talk about something more serious and bigger. Well, how are we going to make debts for our children, grandsons? And when will we start thinking in the long term? Because that money will ever have to be returned. Now it looks like if it is fair, the only logical political action that the government could take and which I think a large part of society would welcome - to submit war to Germany in the morning and to give up in the evening. To get out of that madness, from the economic abyss we have. Or Sweden. Germany or Sweden. I recommend that you consider such a scenario, Mr. Kariņš. You may then be forgiven by people, and the rest is unforgivable. For life, it is easy to forgive what you have done to the people of Latvia. You don't save, you drive into more despair, more poverty, more hopelessness. You're driving in a country that doesn't have a future. There's all your actions there. And why? Because of everything you do, you think of such a prism, that somewhere you have to pay your interest inside. If you can't count it, then you don't, then there's nothing. So you can't pay your children, so all the other things are too late. It's just where there's some kind of interest in it. That's the wrong thinking about the country. Well, at least during the crisis, he couldn't steal. It wouldn't steal for a year, nothing would happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U92	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U93	In the Commission... In view of the rejection of the 11th proposal, this proposal is not put to the vote and has not been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U94	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. We have examined all the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U95	Thank you. Thank you also to the commission, consultants for the operational activities. I call on the Saeima to decide at second, final reading on the draft law "Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection".
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U96	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. One question has been put to Members. Members Zarins, Kucins, Rubiks, Tutins and Lochmele put the question “On “aggressive taking of bull behind the horns to prevent things from happening that cannot happen””. The word for motivation - Member Ivars Zarins. ( Pause) There is a word of motivation given to the Member, Ivars Zarins, if you want to motivate this question in your case. So yes, please give the name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U97	Yeah, well, I'm finally given a name. Yes, I think colleagues, the whole society wants to know whether we will finally have the vaccination office that can take that bull behind the horns or not, as Krišjānis Kariņš said. And we all, of course, are waiting, the whole society wants to find out whether Krišjānis Kariņš has received an answer for that he will, who takes the bull behind the horns, or not. That is why we have prepared specific questions to which we hope to receive the answers from Krišjānis Kariņš, and also the answers that have been given, because it really is important to understand how this vaccination office, which receives the greatest pay, is dealing with this vaccination logistics, to which it was also intended. That is, this story about one pot from one vial, but, as we know, one vial... In fact, not everyone knows, because each other... The vaccination bureau, which runs all this, can also not clearly tell how many doses are in that vial - five, nine, or ten? And what happened to these other doses? I think this is an important question, which will significantly show what...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2198-U98	Okay, thank you, thank you. The issue of the bull is referred to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. Now is the time for the announcement. Dear colleagues, The Presidium of the Saeima has decided that the third remote emergency sitting on February 18th of this year, where the Law on Higher Education is on the agenda... The Bureau moved this meeting to 2.30 p.m. on 23 February this year. So on Tuesday, February 23, at 14.00, we will see the third remote emergency session of February 18, where the University College Law is on the agenda. There's also a record of Members. Thank you. I'm closing the fifth remote emergency sitting. Thank you.
