ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U1	Dear colleagues, We will begin to examine the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 6 May this year. Agenda item: Examination of own-initiative proposals The draft decision ‘Declaration of Armenian genocide implemented during the Osman Empire’. On behalf of the Commission on Foreign Affairs, Member Richard Coll.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U2	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, We can see the draft decision of the Saeima, prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission, “Declaration of the Armenian genocide implemented during the Osman Empire”. On April 24, 1915, hundreds of Armenian intellectuals were arrested by the authorities of the then Osman Empire, many of which were immediately killed. This was followed by the anti-Armenian trench and slaughters throughout the empire, as well as the command to massively move the Armenians from Asia Minor through the desert to Mesopotamia and Syria. Thousands of deportees lost their lives as a result of illness, hunger, gangs, attacks, and the brutal behaviour of accompanying soldiers. During World War I, the Armenian community living in the Osman Empire was almost completely destroyed. The consensus of the historians is clear about what happened at that time. Rafael Lemkins, a Polish Jewish lawyer, introduced during World War II the term “genocide”, referring to the mass destruction of Armenians in the Osman Empire during World War I. Armenian genocide - it will never be a de iure level opinion. It can no longer be tried under the Vienna Convention. Recognise or not recognise Armenian genocide - this is a question of political determination. And that's not a simple question. Genocide is the most serious crime against man who has no prescription, and to remain silent in the face of clear facts lies only in the conscience of guilt. Yes, the burden of responsibility is heavy, and nobody wants to bear it. However, this severity does not change the fact that the Armenians were suffering indescribable. This was recognised even by Germany, which is usually the reserved and retroactive term of the genocide, aware of the part of the responsibility for these events on the shoulders of the German Empire, which was an ally to the Osman Empire. This commemoration of genocide is essential not only for the Armenian people, but also for all of us to prevent its recurrence. To be able to say “Never again!” , it is necessary to be aware of and name history in words - not to judge anyone, but to be able to move forward. For those who talk about today's interests, human and human behaviour and attitudes are often not even seen as reasonable in terms of rational and immediate benefits. That is what we think when we talk about the values and principles that we are going to follow. By fear of truth, by silence, by pretending to be invisible, we pass on ourselves - our principles and the importance of recognising and understanding our own history. Colleagues! The version, guided and supported by the Foreign Affairs Commission of the Saeima, was created after hearing all interested parties - diplomats, historians and researchers - after discussions, research and reflection. The draft declaration led by the Foreign Affairs Commission refers to the United Nations Convention on the Inadmissibility and Punishment of Genocide, as well as to the European Parliament resolution recognising these events as genocide under the Convention on the Inadmissibility and Punishment of Genocide. It also notes that Latvia condemns all crimes against humanity and is aware of its obligation to recognise and mention these crimes in order to prevent their recurrence. It condemns the crimes committed by the Armenian people, the Osman Empire. Murder and forced displacement... We respect the victims. The names Metz Yeghern in Armenian mean “great tribulation”. Just like us, the end of the year. Metz Yeghern entered the Armenian consciousness as a sign of a time they also called genocide. The Latvians still have to be aware and reflect on the historical trauma of the land itself, the nation, the family. We know what crimes against humanity are, and it is important not to forget that other peoples also have such experience. It is not a matter of barter, mutual benefit, nor of small, minor political points. I am convinced that open and free discussions on history are inextricably linked to the creation and prosperity of a free society. A healthy and strong democracy is built on the foundations of truth and maturity. Colleagues, I call on you to support the draft parliamentary declaration prepared by the Foreign Affairs Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U4	Colleagues! Knowing that the issue of Armenian genocide has unfortunately not been on the Saeima's agenda for years, I call on all Members to be particularly responsible today. Today, I am very pleased that more than 40 Members of the Saeima, through their active action in drawing up and signing the draft Declaration of Recognition of the Armenian genocide, have achieved a slump of ice. And those who have long been obliged to act and work proactively on drawing up and approving such a declaration in the Latvian Parliament have finally awakened and responded, and are now offering another draft declaration, which is a huge achievement in itself. Thank you to every Member who was not indifferent and, when signing the draft declaration, boldly expressed his support for the Armenian people, paving the way for the political recognition of the Armenian genocide fact, thus ensuring historical justice and expressing its values to the whole world public. It does not matter which of the draft declarations will be approved; above all, we will have repaid the Armenian people's solidarity debt and, with a strong and clear state position, our people's attitude towards the terrible historical events that started just over 106 years ago in the territory of the Osman Empire. We are well aware that foreign policy is not only a geopolitical policy, but also a defence of values. While defending values, we must have the courage to say the truth and find the facts of history, even if they may be disliked today. We are responding today not only to allies, but also to future generations. A fair historical analysis is vital to prevent the tragic errors of history and crimes against humanity. If we want other nations to have solidarity with us to remember the important event in our history, then we must also show solidarity with those who still have to fight for the expression of historical truth. Why have so many countries of the European Union managed to recognise the fact of genocide against the Armenian people, but Latvia pretended not to see it? France, Germany, Greece, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Italy, Lithuania, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden - these are countries that have not ignored historical crimes and genocide against the Armenians. It cannot be called into question that hundreds of Armenian intellectuals were arrested in the territory of the Osman Empire in 1915, followed by the massacres of Armenians throughout the territory of the empire and the mass deportations of Armenians, during which the Armenian community was purposefully destroyed. Colleagues, we don't have to be afraid of saying things in the right words. The main aim of today's declaration is to condemn genocide crimes. By this declaration, the Saeima acknowledges the implementation of the Armenian genocide in the territory of the Osman Empire. The Saeima also condemns the crimes of genocide committed against the Armenian people, which were intended to eliminate the Armenian population, and recalls that genocide should be explicitly condemned in order to prevent its recurrence. I believe that it is our duty to honour the innocent memory of the victims of genocide, showing respect for those who fought for human dignity and the opportunity to live. I sincerely call on all my colleagues to support the declaration on the recognition of the Armenian people's genocide.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U5	Name of Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U6	Dear colleagues, The Saeima demonstrates its foreign policy maturity with its readiness to discuss a declaration on the Armenian genocide implemented during the Osman Empire. As Head of the Group of Members for Cooperation with the Parliaments of Armenia, I am grateful to both the Members who started the process at the Saeima and the Foreign Affairs Commission and its Members, who developed the text of the declaration through discussion. I believe it is very important that Latvia demonstrates its support for universal human values, and I am convinced that today the eyes of the world will be focused on Latvia and its courageous step, which is also fair and draws the world's attention to the fact that historical crimes against humanity are crimes anyway and we must honour the victims and remember that it is important never to allow anything like this in human history in the future. Thank you to all those who will vote in favour of this declaration. I call for this to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U7	Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U8	Dear President, Honourable Members! Each country has its own national interests, its own strategic interests and its own tactics, in how it fulfils these national interests. Each State shall accept its declarations and declarations in the light of these national interests. And we must always answer, for example, by adopting a document - is it promoting cooperation with NATO or, on the contrary, promoting cooperation with the country of the Kremlin-led collective security system? Is it an provocation or is it an provocation? Why is such a declaration made today suddenly coming out? And your miracle! - together with the New Conservative Party? I had never seen such a warm friendship and thought it was unity. Will this "innocent" declaration (in the footsteps) contribute to our cooperation with NATO, economic cooperation, political cooperation, or, on the contrary, will it create difficulties in our cooperation? Before we vote in favour of this declaration, we must answer why it is today. I will tell you why today. For thirty years Armenia has been illegally occupying part of Azerbaijan's territory. Moreover, not only in Nagorno-Karabakh, which was an autonomous Armenian populated area, which they consider to be part of or an independent state, but also... nine districts of Azerbaijan. Over the thirty years, a million people have been raised from these areas - without choice. There was a genocide, a mass massacre in Hojali, where women and children were shot, who were created as a free corridor for evacuation... The Armenians discovered the fire. This grant has not already taken place in the interest of some 200,000 people in Karabah. This occupation was carried out by Russian heavy armour, the military parts of Russia, which directly supported the so-called... Let's say, Armenian fighters, the regular units of the Armenian troops. In the 1930 ’ s, practically all religious monuments in the area were destroyed. If we look at some city companies from the air that now... on the Internet you can see... You will not, for example, distinguish some of Armenia's settlements... The destroyed... the sights of Hirosim after nuclear bombing. Is it genocide or not? Minsk Group. For thirty years, Germany and France have been mentioned here... For thirty years, the Minsk Group, which is composed of both Germany and France, did not do anything, of course, and they rejoiced at how nice Armenia was there. Four UN declarations on the release of these occupied Azerbaijani territories were ignored. And only when Turkey supported Azerbaijan, because they consider Azerbaijani as Turkishs and they have friendly relations... and, with the help of our military technology, completely destroyed Russian armaments, heavy machinery (we can look at the Internet, say, YouTube, victory parade of Baku, where... huge columns of this show, see these destroyed Russian transporters... heavy machines, machines, tanks, armorers, jet devices of different types)... In other words, there was a rather big shock for the Kremlin, which, as usual, hoped that this conflict would pull in, Russia will be an intermediary between both countries, selling arms on both sides. But Russia and the Kremlin did not foresee such a rapid breakdown, the inability of the officers trained in Russian academies to lead this military activity, and the absolute incapacity of Russian technology towards Turkish drones. As a result, there was a complete shock, neither Putin nor the Kremlin could make any comments normal in this case for a whole week. In fact, I believe that the situation was stabilised in the Transcaucasia, with NATO troops also being placed on the territory of the former USSR for the first time. Go on. The Azerbaijani Government has announced that it will bring an action before the international court for Armenia to compensate - in the value of billions of dollars - for the seizure of property. For thirty years Armenia has been illegally exporting natural riches; there are colorful metals, gold, platinum, various other, say, natural riches, which the Armenians unwittingly exploited contrary to all international regulations. It is of course necessary to update such documents in order to mitigate somehow these forthcoming trials and all these policies, which were actually implemented with the silent support of Germany and France and the Minsk Group. So the great historian Jurash, as it turns out... Former militiaman or policeman... has suddenly discovered a huge genocide in 1915. If Mr Jušas had very much wanted, he would have taken note of the call made by the Turkish Government in 2005 to set up an international commission that explores all documents, because Turkish archives are open, all documents can be examined. But Armenia refused. By the way, archives are not opened up in Armenia on this issue, but I allow Mr Jušas and the New Conservative Party, which consists of one of the outstanding historians, not former staff of the Ministry of the Interior, to have access to these documents somewhere; of course, they have their own views. Next. Was there a genocide? In 1915... Yes, genocide is when a population group is destroyed by nationality, because they are, for example, Latvians or they are... Well, the social group... They're the hosts... As in 1949... whether they are Crimean Tatars, or they are hunted, say, because they are Indians in the United States, where two million of the 25 million left today... Why does the U.S. Congress not condemn 25 million Indians, for example, to fall to two million? ( We can say that they were shot there -- millions like bison.) Because, in Congress, the majority believes that there was a civil war there, that in fact the Indians also attacked various forts, there was a fight between themselves, and the war is going on... As it happens. Now we come back to Armenia, honourable colleagues. In Armenia, Armenians were in a very privileged position during the Osman Empire in the 19th century. We can look... There were not only ministers in the government, there were veziers at the Turkish Sultan, and there were Armenian intelligence, craftsmen, merchants. The most beautiful home in Istanbul belonged to the Armenians. And suddenly, genocide begins against poor Armenians. It does not start against the Jews; it does not start against Christians; it does not start against other nationalities at that time, but against the Armenians alone. What, then, is the historical situation? The historical situation is exactly the same as today. Innocent people are involved in international games and they pay for the interests of the powers. The United Kingdom and the Russian Empire had agreed to weaken the Osman Empire and use the Armenians as a secret weapon. The Armenians, being Turkish citizens, privileged Turkish citizens, received promises from Russian campaignors that when Turkey is defeated, Great Armenia will be established on their territory. Britons supplied weapons, and military organisations were formed. Well, there's not so much time here, I could... I've read quite a lot about forks... Let's say about these... the formation of a national party for their military units. These military units, armed with Russian and British weapons to their teeth, began mass terrorising Muslim populated areas, attacked mosques, killing people. So... According to the materials that are in Turkey's archives, this is about a million - Turkishs killed and other Turkish citizens. This has been done by these darts and their military formations. Whether it is or not, we do not know. I have not studied all these archives, but I repeat: Turkey kindly calls for an international commission, which is not particularly well supported by Germany, France, Russia or Armenia. Apparently there's some reason. Will this statement be perceived as a provocation and, as I said, will it improve relations between Latvia and Turkey, given that Turkey has envisaged several hundred million large investments in the Latvian economy? I think that will not improve in any way. Do you respect Mr. Jušas and the New Conservative Party... Is that so? WHY I'm not surprised: the Kremlin has to make some compensation for this shame because of the collapse... the shameful destruction of military equipment and their officers and advisers in Karabakh, and of course the SAIC will always be in front and first, who will vote in favour of such documents. But me again! - amaze the New Conservative Party. So... Have the honourable colleagues of the New Conservative Party come to know the leadership of the Armenian Patriarchate... A statement by the patriarchate of the Armenian Church that they no longer want to be hostages to various international statements and invoicing, where in fact other issues are dealt with behind the Armenian people? In this patriarchal statement, we can see that the Armenians and the Turks are now living in a very friendly environment and do not need any exacerbations. And we have to work quite differently. I think the Foreign Affairs Commission too... That notification should in fact be withdrawn in any event. And if we wanted to help realistically and specifically to do something about this, then that statement should be very balanced, where we, like the President of Turkey Erdogan, express our sympathy and regret to the people who have died, but to all of us, including the millions of Turks. If we are so honest that we are in pain with every thing that happens in the world, then where is Latvia's statement about the illegal occupation of Azerbaijani territory? At this point in time, I regard it as such a great deceptive from the New Conservative Party. I do not know the reason, maybe someone will come here and tell us why this statement has been written. I regard it as a provocation, I consider it an invitation to exchange friendship and cooperation with the 80 million NATO state against the rather dubious actions of the country of the Kremlin-led collective security system. Armenia has never recognised the occupation of the Baltic States or is not going to recognise it. I have had talks with their politicians. Well, of course, we can say that this is because strategic interests, see, Armenia is so complicated that they cannot afford it. But I'm sorry, colleagues. Latvia's interests are that we can afford to damage relations with NATO? Armenia and Turkey are not bordering us, but very close to us are Belarus and Ukraine. What is happening in Ukraine? If an invasion of Russia begins in Ukraine... military, so the Minsk Group will help? We have forgotten what the French President said here when he visited Latvia - well, we need to get to good, but we need to get to good in some way. Have we forgotten how the West betrayed us in 1990 when we accepted the Declaration of Independence? They said: “Yes, we would already acknowledge you, but first you have to have relations with the Soviet Union.” Then they said: “You have a relationship with Russia.” Remember the Copenhagen criteria, remember the Baladure Pact? The mouse and the cat must have this relationship, and then we will be welcomed by the European Union... and we will be received by NATO as appropriate. After World War II, Germany had to remove all civilians from occupied areas. We have announced the Western countries that, in fact, everyone must be granted citizenship, an agreement must be reached. Well, well, thank God that Gorbachov's regime collapsed, and then admitted to us. It's hypocritical. And now the last one, colleagues! Think about who is helping Ukraine? Who will supply them with drones? What will help it if another conflict starts... which also stabilizes us? What's stabilising us... What would happen if Ukraine were to be destroyed? And the situation that Turkey has concluded a number of agreements on military cooperation, namely on the supply of weapons, so it is not only about these drones that we are talking about - Turkey and Ukraine have an agreement on the production of engines for military helicopters... And President Erdogan has announced publicly that he will never recognise Crimean occupation and that Crimean Tatars... that Turkey will always defend Crimean Tatars, who, by the way, were all exiled just because they were Crimean Tatars. He'll protect them. Therefore, I call for support to be given to none of these declarations and for this to be considered as the purest provocation where, I do not know why, the New Conservative Party has become involved. Reject both. And the Foreign Affairs Commission really explores and accepts a declaration on all sides equal... Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U9	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U10	So, where did my wire go? ( Pause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U11	Mr. Krauze, we don't see you and we don't hear you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U12	Hello, do you hear me?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U13	We hear you, but we don't see you right now.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U14	I've got a camera on, obviously... I don't know what's about the problems...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U15	Colleagues, let's give the floor to Roman Money, and then... Armands Krauze during the time to try to arrange the technical... organize host... the technical situation. The name to Member Roman Money.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U16	Dear colleagues, Of course, thank you to all the parties involved who have analysed and looked at this issue, prepared a declaration. Undoubtedly, the events that took place in the Osman Empire are tragic. It was World War I, where many people, including Armenians and other nations, died. In my opinion, in Parliament, if we accept any declarations, documents, then they must be carefully examined, evaluated, because this also has some consequences. Vote on documents that we have not analysed ourselves... and historical facts... because such an analysis has not been... At least, as a Member of Parliament, I have not received an invitation to engage in a debate on these issues, to listen to the historians who are talking about these issues, and then to draw conclusions on what actually happened in the Osman Empire at that time, because the views of the historians are different. The death of many, many Armenians, including Kurds, Turks, Jews and other nationalities, is undoubtedly a fact. We condemn these tragic events, we put the head of this fallen, the dead, their relatives, their grandchildren. We politicians really have to do everything to prevent such tragic events from happening again in the future. But if we accept a declaration, then I think it would be very important to call on the historians who would introduce us to the archives of that time. Why can't we not invite Armenian historians who come here with archival materials? We analyze them, we evaluate them, including archive materials available in Turkey, we also analyse them. By the way, such material has been analysed. Turkish material on mass burial sites where Turks have been murdered is analysed in Berlin and has been scientifically and archaeologically proven. Then, please, it would be very interesting for me to get acquainted with such materials so that we can also draw conclusions from what and how to write in the declaration, which nationalities have been affected by these events. I think that is very important. At present, such an analysis... No careful analysis has been performed. I would have called for perhaps for this document to be rejected and for the next one to be rejected as well. I would also be prepared to engage myself in the Committee on Foreign Affairs or to form a group of our Members in Parliament to analyse these issues together with the historians and to give an assessment of our vision of these events. We look at the other parliaments where these declarations have been adopted. As Mr Kola said, these are all political declarations, no archive material is attached to these declarations, and there has been no such discussion either. Like what happens in our parliament... We sign documents, submit documents, yes, there is something that we have studied, analysed, but we do not analyse them thoroughly. Therefore, I think it is important to call everyone at the same table and to look back on these events, to get to know and condemn all violence against people. I think it would be important now, as I said, to direct this issue back to the Commission, to discuss, to call on historians and then to return to this issue. I think, in a way, in a short time - until autumn - we could already prepare this document. We must not forget the people and the nationalities who, even without the Armenians, died in these tragic events. I guess now, too... or he's listening right now maybe and then translating the records... Armenia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs - definitely. There will be elections in Armenia very soon, parliamentary elections if I am not mistaken. Then I would call on the yet existing Parliament of Armenia - perhaps condemn and acknowledge the occupation of Latvia at last, accept the declaration of the Latvian genocide... USSR genocide against Latvians. Thousands of people, intelligence was taken to Siberia, murdered. A huge demographic pit was created in Latvia. The huge potential of scientists, the potential of knowledge, was simply buried, shot, levelled to the ground. Why do other parliaments in the world not recognize these genocides that have been made? Perhaps the Armenians should also set an example and recognise the occupation of Latvia and genocide against the Latvians, as well as the other peoples that took place against the USSR countries... For the Baltic States. I have to say, my family history is also very interesting. I am, on the one hand, a Latvian; on the other hand, I have a Azerbaijani family. I have analysed these documents very much and listened to what my grandfather has told me about the events that took place in the Osman Empire. My grandfather’s mother’s mask of the Armenian repression that took place in Azerbaijan during the Osman Empire. Half of our family was murdered. It's good that she was hiding in the mountains at that time. She was Jewish and later married to Azerbaijani. What has affected our family is documented; it is left to us by our relatives. Tens of thousands at that time... There was also repression against my family... Over the course of a few days, thousands of Azerbaijani, lesbian, Jewish and other people were murdered on Azerbaijani territory on the part of the Armenian Dashnaks Party, armed with Bolsheviks. The events that took place at that time are very tragic. My Latvian family was also repressed. My grandma could not tell about the events that happened to her father, who was repressed, until the last day... Siberia. I think that these issues must be analysed very seriously by us and also by the Armenians themselves. As I said, recognise the occupation of Latvia, genocide against Latvians. In this direction, we need to work to be able to really accept documents that do not insult another nationality, which was killed at that time. As Mr Kirstein said, tens, hundreds of thousands of people were murdered. The crimes were committed by Armenian units armed with the military side of Russia. We have not analysed these facts and have not included them in this communication, but these are very important facts so that we do not offend with such statements any other nationalities that have also suffered. So, colleagues, I think that the documents we accept must be historically analysed. As I said, there is no doubt that many people died, the Armenians died, and other nations. All dignity for those who have fallen, for those who have died, but will be responsible in our decisions. However, I would like to call on the Commission, in this document - in the declaration - to include other nationalities, also to condemn genocide against other nationalities that were addressed at this time in the Osman Empire, and not from Turks, but from other nationalities. Thank you for your attention, and I call on you, colleagues, to work on this, to reject both declarations and to draw up a new parliamentary declaration in which we condemn overall genocide and violence against humanity so that such events do not happen again in today's world. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U17	Name to Member Armand Kraus.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U18	Thank you. Dear Chairman of the Saeima, colleagues. I would also like to begin by expressing my condolences both to the Armenians, the Azerbaijani people, the Kurds, the Turks and the other nations, who at the time - at the beginning of the 20th century - suffered from war, this cruel situation, violence, and I would say that it really is, in today's sense, a genocide against all these peoples. But I will not support either this document or what has been prepared by the JIP and signed by a number of Members, because I believe that the Saeima demonstrates its irresponsibility rather than maturity by directing such statements, which are politically unilateral. Here I would like to say exactly as much and to oppose Mrs Golubeva, who said that we are demonstrating maturity. No, we don't show maturity. I would say that such a statement is at all counter-national. It is against Latvia's national interests. I cannot understand why Latvia needs to lead such a statement. As Mr Jurash said, this is a debt for solidarity. About what? What is this solidarity about? About the fact that Armenia has not recognised the occupation of Latvia? The fact that Armenia failed to recognize that thousands, tens of thousands, suffered in a swan, died in Siberia? Is that solidarity? It's not solidarity! We are also waiting. We are waiting, and we know that we have countries with which we work together, which are our partners. By the way, Turkey is one of them. And Turkey is a NATO country. Do we really need to cooperate with a country with which we do not want to establish closer ties if it does not recognise the occupation of Latvia? It's together... and the territories of war and occupation of other countries, and I think this is a very great tragedy that took place 31 years ago in Hojal, where Armenia's army shot civilians... women, children who resigned to create a corridor where from the mountains... where the peaceful people were and where civilians were simply destroyed. History is hard. And we are now looking unilaterally at such facts? I think this is totally unacceptable and, in today's situation, we should raise many other issues in this way. Why have we not thought that these events took place... 1915, 1916, 1917 et seq. It is about the time when the First World War broke out in the territory of Latvia, when Latvian strifemen died of chemical weapons on the Dead Island. In today's sense, this is also a war crime - the use of chemical weapons. Perhaps the Saeima should also make a declaration and apply to Germany as an heir of the former empire to recognise these war crimes against Latvians, against our Latvian strifemen? I think that this situation, which we are facing at the moment, is really very absurd. I therefore believe that, with respect, indeed expressing our condolences to all the nations that suffered at that time, we should analyse this situation more carefully and make a statement in which we regret not only the Armenians but, as I mentioned at the outset, regret the Azerbaijani people who died, we regret the Kurds who died, the Jews, the Turks, the many nationalities who live in that region, namely the fact that the great empires were guilty there. Yes, the Russian Empire was guilty there, yes, then the Communists were also guilty there, and the Latvian people suffered as well. All this has to be mentioned, but we are currently leading the document unilaterally, and I believe that it is contrary to the national interests of Latvia, it is a crime that we are currently doing. We are not with those countries that protect our airspace, which are ready to fight for us, we are really doing, indeed, unwise things at the moment. I would ask Members not to support either of the other declarations and to think about who our allies are and who our allies are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U19	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U20	There is nothing to add.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U21	Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision entitled ‘Declaration of Armenian genocide implemented during the Osman Empire’! Please, let's vote! For - 58, for - 11, for - 7. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, Consequently, the draft decision ‘Declaration of Armenian genocide’ cannot be considered. On the agenda - examination of requests from Members on requests received. Members Ivars Zarins, Jānis Krišāns, Regīna Ločmele, Arturs Rubiks, Ivan Klementjevs, Vladimirs Nikonovs, Boriss Cilevičs, Valerijus Agešins, Edgars Kucins and Ivans Ribakovs have submitted a request to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavilts, “On the actions of Latvian officials and the true responsible for the purchase of vaccines”. Name for motivation to Member Ivars Zarins. Colleagues inform us that Member Zarins does not attend this sitting. So... So the name... So Member Zarins is connected. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U22	Good afternoon, Colleagues! We have prepared a request to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. As it has become known, in at least three cases Latvian officials have not decided to buy the volumes of vaccines offered to Latvia, i.e. both “Pfizer” and “Modern” vaccines – they are several hundred thousand. Service inquiries were carried out for these cases of purchase of vaccines. Unfortunately, taking into account these so-called results of service investigations and the explanations provided by the Ministry of Health, it does not become clear the real circumstances of these purchases, the course of events and those responsible for the events. Moreover, the way in which the circumstances of the case have been clarified, the provision of information, have been carried out gives cause for concern that these so-called service investigations have not been conducted to reveal the true circumstances of the case and those responsible, but to conceal them. According to the so-called service inspections and the replies given by the Ministry of Health, it has not been possible to find out either who convened the meetings of this working group, which decided not to buy vaccines, nor - what was the mandate of this working group, which gave it the right to make such decisions, or - what opinions have then been expressed by the members of this working group, or - what has really been decided by this working group, and how these decisions have been made and have been formulated in these working groups, so that Latvia's response to these purchases is prepared and sent on the basis of them. It is also argued in these service inspections that no information has been obtained that the Ministry of Health’s management would be informed about the events of this working group meeting and the decisions taken there, as well as about these orders for vaccines. There is a valid question here for the existing Minister for Health - do you think that such a procedure for the procurement of these vaccines by your officials seems to be credible - that officials have taken such decisions on their own initiative and initiative, without them being explicitly given the power to leave the administration of the Ministry without being informed at all. Such manipulations with the real circumstances of the case appear rather as an attempt to delineate from the responsibility of the government and political officials who have taken place, the existing power, whose vaccination has declared its main and only opportunity to exit the society's crisis and who once again acted irresponsibly and unsustainably, with little care at all for the process of purchasing this vaccine, which will now have to be paid for by the Latvian society with their lives. In our view, the real circumstances of the case need to be clarified, and all those political forces who have promised their constituents to fight against the irresponsibility and lenientness of power will once again have the opportunity to demonstrate how they transfer their voters... promises. I invite you to follow this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-06-PT13-2244-U23	The request shall be made available to the Commission. Consequently, the agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for notification. Dear colleagues, So the first extraordinary session on May 6 of this year will begin at 11:35. The break is planned at the usual time - from 12.30 to 13.30. So the beginning of the sitting is at 11.35 a.m. But there's a record of Members. Thank you. I'm closing the sitting.
