ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin to examine the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 16 December this year. On the agenda for the examination of draft laws. Draft Law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1265 Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Šteins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U2	Good evening, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! So, in the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, for the first reading, we have examined an amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection. And the amendment provides that we introduce in this law a provision requiring a person to present an interoperable certificate... Thus, it is now the obligation to present an identity document that is a passport or an ID card, but it will also be possible to present a driver’s driving licence or student’s certificate or a pensioner’s certificate or service pension holder’s certificate in the future. There was a debate in the Commission, there was a wide debate about the inclusion of other documents in this regulation, but at the moment we agreed unanimously and unanimously within the Commission that it was important to support this regulation. For other cases, a broader assessment is needed and these can certainly also be submitted to new amendments at the end of the year or in January. It is also worth pointing out that the interoperable certificate must be accompanied by one of these documents. This was confirmed by the Legal Bureau of the Saeima – that it translates this norm. The Commission therefore unanimously supported both the urgency and the first reading. At first, I call on the Saeima to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U3	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” as urgent! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U4	On behalf of the Commission, I also ask for support for the draft law at first reading, as has been done unanimously by the Commission. Please do so, too, to the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U5	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. ( Pause) We can't hear you, Mr. Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U6	Do you hear me now?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U7	It's okay, yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U8	Yes, I strongly support this proposal. I think it's a place. At the same time, I don't know... in my opinion, there is no great need for second reading either, because the idea is clear, simple. But I would like to draw attention to those who really are now defining this discipline... how to identify interoperable certificates, especially in cases where individuals use them, for example, at the entrances of the store. Sometimes I see that... people of a particularly respected age feel quite insecure when trying to use certificates printed on paper. Perhaps there is an opportunity (I do not know on what account – on the government's account, on the local government's account) however, to provide on request an opportunity to make a plastic card in a format that would still be useful for those individuals to issue it. Because sometimes, as I said, it seems that there are major problems for those who are not used to using aphon or Android, as we all often do... This is simply at the level of the proposals. I don't think we should have a big debate on my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U9	Name to Member Janis Butan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U10	Hello! In the context of the draft law under consideration, I would like to draw attention, however, to the fact that, for example, other countries do not need to present an identity document in order to certify the vaccination certificate. And if we look at what direction we are now going to Latvia, if we extend this range of documents (official documents are passport and ID card) – this range of supporting documents, for example, I do not know, it would be a pensioner's or driver's licence or student's certificate... Some of the certificates may also be easy, relatively easy, to counterfeit. Consequently, in my opinion, the question is whether it is necessary to produce any kind of supporting document at all. I would agree more with the fact that a supporting document is only requested at the moment when the inspector has any doubts or suspicion or has any conflict that he may be claiming who he is not. Therefore, I think it would be a good thing if we could, let us say, draw up a bill where these identity documents simply do not need to be presented. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U11	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U12	Yes, I also think that the proposal incorporated in the Commission's proposals is very much on the table, and it has long been necessary to do so. And it turns out that the Prime Minister does not even know that this possibility exists, and he himself said that he should probably do so. Very good. I think... In view of the fact that the green certificate will continue to serve for a long time – not only day, but also years – then it is really appropriate to think about the proposal made by Mr. Pimenova. It will also not require the presentation of some certificates... certain supporting documents, provided that they are universal and user-friendly enough, in a manner similar to that in the case of the use of asets. Thank you. But that is, naturally, a question for the future. I call for support to be given to this draft law in two readings at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U13	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U14	On behalf of the Commission, I can assure you that we have regularly talked to the committee responsible about all these issues relating to the communion pandemic, and this time there was no debate on the opt-out and other issues. We can ask them in future sittings. At present, I call for support for this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U15	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please, let's vote! On - 74, against and refrains - not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U16	In accordance with the order of the Saeima roll regulation, on behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the second final reading of this draft law at this sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-16-PT13-2334-U17	Please see the procedure section. Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? Members have not applied. There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. The law is passed. Colleagues, I have to quickly introduce you to the questions that have been submitted. Members Zarins, Agešin, Clementyev, Tutin and Rubik have tabled the question “On the grounds of urgency for the government to decide on a “compulsory re-vaccination” to be given to the Prime Minister. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Klementjevs, Tutins and Agešins put forward the question “On the stress of vaccinated people on the health care system” that we give to the Minister of Health. Members Valainis, Tavars, Augulis, Jalinska and Bergmanis have asked: “Does the State Chancellery mislead journalists about documenting the work of the Crisis Management Board’s meeting”, which we submit to the Prime Minister. Members Valainis, Tavars, Augulis, Jalinska and Bergmanis submitted the question “On the number of employees in the Ministry of Health with education in health care or public health” that we hand over to the Minister of Health. Members Zarins, Kucins, Orlovs, Lochmele and Rubiks submitted the question “On Government's objectives to reduce energy costs for Latvian users and justify the solution it offers”, which we submit to the Prime Minister. Members Krauze, Augulis, Tavars, Bergmanis and Dūklavs submitted the question “On the stock exchange quotation of state-owned companies”, which we submitted to the Prime Minister. Members Valainis, Augulis, Jalinska, Tavars and Dūklavs submitted the question “How ready for the new Covid-19 Omicron version of the virus is Latvia”, which we submit to the Prime Minister. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Tutins, Agešins and Klementjevs have submitted the question “On the justification of the amount of compensation for the elimination of animals in the house of SIA Baltic Devon Mink”, which is given to the Prime Minister. Members Zarins, Rubiks, Tutins, Agešin and Klementyev have submitted the question ‘On actions taken and decisions taken regarding the results of the tests carried out by the ERA’, which is referred to the Minister for Economic Affairs. There's also a record of Members. It's over. I'm closing the sitting. Good evening, colleagues!
