ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U1	Dear Members and honourable Members, Let us begin the examination of the agenda of the fourth remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 18 February. On the agenda: consideration of draft laws. And as the first is the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U2	Hello, Madam President. Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! Sitting viewers and listeners! Today, we examined the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Effects”, which aims to provide one-off support to families with children from 1 March 2021 to the moment... as long as an emergency situation is declared throughout the country due to the prevalence of Covid-19 in order to reduce the negative impact of Covid-19 infection and the stress in families with children. In fact, during an emergency, all families are faced with difficult circumstances, whether they have very small children or cared for by pupils or by families whose income has fallen significantly. There may also be situations where a family member has lost his job and any income. Families are in difficult situations: they are unable to make all compulsory payments, they are unable to meet the basic needs of family members, using the usual means of solving problems; they need material and psycho-emotional assistance. There is a large proportion of society where families may not have changed their income, but this does not rule out the fact that parents are forced to invest huge amounts of resources to be able, without losing their jobs, to combine work responsibilities and education of children; this is particularly burdensome in a situation where there are several children in the family. In addition, both parents and students should be provided with distance work and training. All of this requires technology. There is a lack of computers in families so that students and parents can simultaneously take on remote learning and work at a distance. Parents also have a variety of other expenditures, including additional expenditure on food purchases and public utility payments, as all family members live at home on a daily basis. In families too, emotional tension is quite high. Parents not only have to do their job but also to help their children in the training process. The proposal provides for a one-off cost of support for families with children... an increase of EUR 500 per child. This universal financial support is intended for families with children without assessing certain criteria, such as, for example, the amount of income loss or the number of children in the family, which will enable equal support from the State to be provided to all families, thus avoiding the risk of not receiving support from a family that is vitally in need but which, because of the criteria laid down, would not be able to qualify for it. Access to support will also be provided to guardians, foster families and persons who, in accordance with the Law on State Social Benefits, receive remuneration for the care of the child to be adopted, if the person concerned is granted a family state allowance, a supplement to the family state allowance for the disabled child, a child care allowance or a maternity allowance. The Commission was informed that the costs were already planned to start in March and that no debt recovery and deductions would be made from the aid paid. The Commission has examined the draft law and calls on the Saeima to consider it urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U3	Mr Orlov, do you want to debate urgency?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U4	No, I would like to debate at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U5	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”! Please vote mode! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vital Orlov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U6	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Dear Members, Today, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs looked at this issue, and I already drew attention to the fact that, in my opinion, we forgot one category of children. These are the children who started school training while being six years old and finished when... they are 18 or 19 years of age. And they finished... obtained secondary education, has not yet become university graduates, and they do not have to, according to our regulation, EUR 500... not for them, but for their parents, they do not have the 500 euros that we have foreseen by this bill. I appeal to the Ministry of Welfare, officials, to deal with this issue, however. I think this is very important. Talent children who simply completed high school wisdom (early - in our opinion) cannot be "punished" by the fact that their parents cannot receive this support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U7	Thank you. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Member Julia Stepanenko to speak on the procedure. Please enable a section on the procedure. Mrs Stepanenko, please apply. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko is about the procedure.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U8	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! Mrs Lībiņa-Egneres might perhaps have explained to us why the draft laws tabled by Members were not included in this sitting - amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread. They are about sports for children, about hairdressers, as well as... There is another draft law on VAT. The draft laws presented by us do not in any way diminish the functioning of the sitting of the Saeima; it is necessary - for a maximum of 10 minutes, if not five, for the consideration of these draft laws (for their transfer or non-transfer to the Saeima Commission), if no one applies to speak against. I believe that this conduct by the Saeima... Such action by members of the Saeima Presidium is voluntary and we have all the right to collect signatures in order to appeal to the Constitutional Court that the right of opposition, namely the right to propose a draft law to the Saeima sitting, is limited in voluntarily by you. If you cannot explain it, then you will have to explain it in the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U9	Thank you. Let's go back to examining the draft laws. So in the debate, other Members have not applied. Mr. Stein, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U10	The Commission unanimously supported the draft law at first reading. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U11	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”! Please vote mode! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the sittings... the date of the examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U12	The deadline for the submission of proposals was set by the Commission at 15 minutes. And second reading - Saeima extraordinary sitting today, 18 February.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U13	There are no other proposals regarding the deadline. So the draft law can be put forward for second reading by 15.5 p.m. And the examination - today's extraordinary session of 18 February. Thank you. You can now turn to procedural issues. We have closed the first item on the agenda. Mrs Stepanenko asked for information on why the Saeima Presidium... three draft laws are included in this fourth remote extraordinary session of 18 February, two of which are interrelated, therefore - the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers and drafted by the Commission. I can inform you that the Saeima Bureau had received two parliamentary commissions, the responsible commissions, namely the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission and the Social and Labour Commission, the requests to the Saeima Bureau to include these draft laws in a separate extraordinary session today, 18 February, which I mentioned... with a note... Both of these commissions' requests to the Saeima Presidium... for consideration at first reading and not to include other items on the agenda of the sitting. The Saeima Bureau respected the commissions’ requests and convened the Saeima’s meeting with the order of business that the commissions had requested. We shall proceed to the agenda of the sitting. The second item on the agenda is, therefore, the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance". Drafter of the law - Cabinet of Ministers. And the alternative draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance", submitted by the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour. On behalf of the Commission, Mr Andris Skride, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U14	Good afternoon! So the commission looked at the draft law presented by the Cabinet of Ministers “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”. It decided exactly what the Cabinet of Ministers had tabled, not to support and develop its own, an alternative bill. So, if we have to vote for this first, the Cabinet, then... The Commission rejected this - the Cabinet - and did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U15	Thank you. Mr Skride, the debate, so we can... and we also have both draft laws in accordance with the Rally of the Saeima now... but no one has applied in the debate. We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers! I would remind you that the Commission is calling for this draft law to be rejected. Please call me! Please, let's vote! -17, against -63, refrains - not. The draft law at first reading is not supported. Mr. Skride... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U16	Yeah. And now we are working on an alternative draft law drafted by the Commission on "Amendments to the Social Services and Social Assistance Act". Its fundamental character is that the state provides a higher target for municipalities - specifically to cover the community's benefits. And this country's target grant is increased from EUR 40 to EUR 75. And, of course, the municipality can pay even more... and may be paid each month. And more. This includes that this allowance may be paid up to 30 June, so that it is extended. The draft law also provides for the entry into force of the law on 25 February. The Ministry of Finance has been agreed, the Legal Bureau has been involved and approved, and the Ministry of Welfare has also approved. Please accept the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U17	Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the alternative draft law on social services and social assistance drafted by the Commission! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent. And we will vote in favour of supporting the Commission's draft alternative law on social services and social assistance at first reading! Please vote mode! No, 88, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. ( A sound defect.) ... time-limit for second reading and sittings... parsing time... The Saeima will sit... the time of the examination.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U18	Yes, thank you for your support at first reading. And, having also consulted the Ministry of Welfare and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima... and the Members are therefore asking... The panel asks for support at second reading without a re-examination by the panel. That was the Commission's decision - a unanimous decision. Please the Saeima to support this draft law at second reading without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U19	Thank you. Are Members against the fact that we are debating this bill today at the parliamentary sitting - without a re-examination by the committee - in the second, final reading? Please enable a section on the procedure. If someone has reservations, please apply. There is no objection by Members. So we can look at the draft law at second, final, final reading. Mr Skride, would you like to add something else on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U20	No, no. I call on you to support and vote in favour of the second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-18-PT13-2197-U21	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the alternative draft law "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" at second, final reading! Please vote mode! No, 89, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear Members and honourable Members, Consequently, we have reviewed the agenda of the fourth remote emergency session of the Saeima on 18 February 2021. I remind you that after this sitting... 15 minutes after that, we return to the second remote session of the Saeima on 18 February and continue to discuss the agenda of this meeting. Only registration of participants. It's been a success. I'm closing the sitting. We continue our work at 16:05 in the second remote session.
