ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2277-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! Let's start the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on June 17th. The President of Latvia Egil Levit's address is on the agenda. Mr. President of State, name for you!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2277-U2	Thank you. Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! We all want to return to our normal life as soon as possible. With relief, we can find that, after a long delay, the vaccination process has assumed speed and we will probably reach the rest of Europe soon. If vaccination continues at current rates, if flexible action is taken, with temporary or local restrictions, it is reasonable to expect that the next Covid-19 wave will not follow in the autumn. However, we cannot simply close the door behind this difficult, depressing and tragic time for our whole people. In the Covid-19 pandemic, relatives, friends, and many have suffered from severe illness. The welfare of the people, the economy of the people, has been affected. This pandemic fought and continues to fight the whole world. It should be objectively said that both European and world comparison Latvia has coped well with this crisis. If in the EU in 2020 gross domestic product decreased by 6.1 per cent and in the euro area by 6.6 per cent, only 3.6 per cent in Latvia. However, this is not a reason for complacency, as our neighbours experienced a smaller economic downturn. In Estonia, total output decreased by around 3 percent, while in Lithuania it decreased by 1 percent. The crisis is always a good reason to learn. This crisis was a stress test for the Latvian public administration and showed structural problems in it. It is therefore not enough simply to find a responsible or wrong decision. It is about the failure of a whole system to act adequately in a crisis situation by refusing the necessary doses of vaccines for Latvia and demonstrating the inability to start vaccination. But the question arises: whether it is an exception or a weak ability to act decisively in situations where the usual routine is no longer enough is a quite common situation in our public administration. Another stress test in public administration is still ongoing. This applies to the resources for the development and sustainability mechanism. Latvia's plan was made a samocites; applications often showed a counterproductive interest, not a common interest of the country. The weak cross-sectoral cooperation capacity of public administration is once again a cause for concern. It is true that in the second step – following criticism justified by the European Commission – this plan was improved. I would remind you that these extraordinary funds must serve not to meet current needs, but to ensure quality growth of Latvia. The reformed green and digital economy in Europe, which has now begun, will be based on sectors where new knowledge and skills will be essential. And we have to learn them. In the future, such stress will not be small, therefore Latvia needs a public administration that is able to cope successfully with it. I therefore call on the Saeima and the government to carry out thorough assessments of the capacity and efficiency of public administration, clarifying what needs to be improved in procedures that are in the culture of public administration and where changes to laws are needed. The audit of the State Audit Office and the audit of justice published by the OECD at the beginning of this year, initiated by the Ministry of Justice, is a good example of the assessment of a particular sector. I would also like to call for more consistent and constructive cooperation between the Saeima and the government. When deciding on both restrictions and their phasing out, the government must take into account a comprehensive analysis of data and expert advice, while the Saeima must listen to the government's arguments or, if it takes a different decision to what the government has decided, it must base itself on an equally comprehensive assessment of the situation. This would help us to avoid unwanted parliamentary accidents in the future. Honourable Members! Although society has assessed the activities of governments, coalitions and the Saeima critically during the crisis, it is important to note that during this time really important laws have been passed that strengthen the national and democratic foundations of Latvia and contribute to the development of the country. I am pleased that the Saeima adopted the Latvian Historical Lands Law yesterday. This law will strengthen the cultural and historical diversity of Latvia. The Latvian Historical Lands Law, including the aspects of identity and belonging, is an essential complement to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations, adopted at the previous session, the aim of which is to promote economic development of municipalities and to provide every Latvian citizen with equal living opportunities, municipal and municipal services wherever he lives. And now we have to take the next step. The Saeima must adopt a new municipal law in which, as a very important component, I consider the inclusion of the regulation on elected councils of the population of local communities, because in my critical opinion, when signing the Law on Administrative Areas and Populations, I pointed out that, without the sense of democratic participation and the ability to influence the neighbourhood, participation in the elections would be low. And that is what we saw in the municipal elections. I would therefore like to draw the Saeima's attention once again to the fact that the Saeima has been stuck by the law on referendums of local governments for 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen! The state's democratic system and development is an important law adopted this year regulating the work of public electronic media. In order for people to be able to participate qualitatively in national affairs, they need reliable information and an opportunity to assess different views. The information that people receive from the media creates a vision of their world and affects their actions, including in elections, so the quality of information available to the public also depends on the quality of our policies. The new law establishes the responsibility of the public electronic media to strengthen the democratic system of Latvia, its membership in Latvia, to promote understanding of Latvia as a legal and national state. The Public Electronic Media Council will have to monitor the implementation of these objectives. Last week I also presented to the Saeima and the Cabinet of Ministers my opinion on the necessary actions to support commercial media to promote their independence, quality and pluralism. Different systems of such support exist in many European countries; now Latvia should also follow these examples. I therefore call on the Saeima to establish and adopt a law on State aid for commercial media, which would require both the State to ensure that such a range of offers exists and to set out criteria for those media that wish to apply for this support. I have also called for the value added tax to be reduced by five per cent. It is a common tool in many countries to strengthen the development of media and bookkeeping. Dear colleagues, I would like to congratulate the Saeima on the amendments adopted last week in the University College Act, which is the basis for an ambitious and socially necessary reform of higher education, which will continue in the years to come. The reform marks a strategic progress towards excellence in higher education and scientific progress. The law defines university typology and introduces a new governance model that will promote the quality of higher education, international competitiveness and better governance. Universities must become a stable basis for our scientific progress. We need to become much closer and more visible as an integral part of the world's space for innovation and ideas. Knowledge and science must be at the heart of the modernisation of our country. We are not so much in a position to afford to have a well-educated or low-educated society, so the reform of higher education must not remain on paper alone. This means that the state budget must provide for an adequate, gradual and long-term increase in funding for higher education and science. Quality must be paid. Honourable Members! The introduction of the Satversme provides for the obligation of the State to guarantee the existence and development of Latvian language and culture through centuries as a constant foundation of the state. It is not a declaratory idea; it is to be implemented in everyday life, in all laws, to live with it. Recently, I had to ask the Cabinet to postpone the adoption of the State Language Policy Guidelines. The reason was that the state language was seen there as one of the elements of multilingualism, which means that understanding of the specific, constitutional, role of the state language in our country was obviously not sufficient. The consequences of the Soviet occupation in the form of discrimination against Latvia in the labour market have still not been eliminated if they do not understand Russian. We must put an end to this Soviet heritage because, otherwise, people who return from abroad and young people who have not learned Russian will be excluded from the labour market. Russian knowledge in Latvia can only be required if the job duties are related to the respective foreign countries. However, we must promote English, precisely because it is a global language of communication, learning that language. The second foreign language, whose children learn the language of the European Union, must also be provided in schools. Knowledge of languages also means access to the relevant information space and, as we are in the European Union, our people must have access to the European area of ideas, discussion and knowledge in the first place. At the same time, however, language and education policy must also address a new complex problem – so that English and Latvian are not meaninglessly mixed in the language of young people, especially young people. New solutions need to be found here. Ladies and gentlemen! The state language must remain the priority of the Saeima, so I have encouraged to establish an annual report of the responsible members of the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of the state language in the Saeima, just as the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Ombudsman have already provided. This would enable the Saeima to play a much greater role in the formulation of the national language policy. The debate of this Saeima could be linked to October 15, which will be marked as State Language Day by the decision of the Saeima yesterday. We must build and strengthen traditions that promote Latvianism, emphasize the constitutional importance of the state language and its role in building a united nation. Members! I am pleased that 17 March, by decision of the Saeima, has been set as a memorial day for the National Resistance Movement. I would like to emphasise in particular that national resistance to occupation must be closely exposed to the historical memory of the people. At the same time, its honor is a reminder that its country, independent and democratic Latvia must be protected today. Therefore, I also very much welcome the adoption by the Saeima of the State Defence Training and the Law on the New Guard. This will enable young people at school to learn their skills to act in crisis situations, develop critical thinking, promote patriotic education and responsibility for Latvia. We are pleased to find that we have established a comprehensive national defence system, which – especially after Russia's invasion in Ukraine in 2014 – is now well funded and secured in line with NATO requirements. At the same time, our country's home system has been neglected for years. The current hybrid threats are cross-border and are directed against the internal order of the country, our democratic values and our sovereignty. We need to strengthen our country against threats in the digital environment, we need to improve cyber security. The border guard must also be well prepared against possible provocations, which are already reported by Lithuania. Organised crime has not disappeared anywhere, and it is also cross-border. Against all these threats, the workers of our home system are on the front line, while the working conditions in the home system are poor, pay is inadequate, infrastructure is outdated and workers' education is often not in line with modern requirements. I therefore call on the government to develop a specific programme over a period of five to seven years to gradually strengthen our home system, which is so important for the security of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, a few words about the recent threat of the constitutional crisis. Once again, the Saeima cannot adopt a law that is directly contrary to the judgment of the Constitutional Court. As guardian of the Constitution, the President of Latvia cannot declare such a law, but I will point out that there is a possibility of constitutional dialogue between constitutional bodies, especially between the Constitutional Court and the Saeima. A judgment of the Constitutional Court may declare a law adopted by the Saeima invalid if it does not comply with the Satversme, and it should be noted that the Constitutional Court evaluates compliance of a particular law not only with the letter of the Satversme, but also with the spirit of the Satversme. However, the Saeima has a wide margin of discretion as to how to implement this judgment and how to address the problem by means of a new law or by amending the law. I would like to emphasise once again that respectful constitutional dialogue in the legal state is an appropriate way of dealing with such issues. Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I wish you a good rest and enjoy the beauty of the summer of Latvia. I wish to return in the autumn with the readiness to discuss a better solution for the common good of Latvia and the determination to continue these discussions – however, perhaps a little better mutual understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2277-U3	Thank you, Mr. President. We also wish you happy Ligo holidays and Johns! It should be said that there would be no surprise if the Saeima returned to work more quickly than in the beginning of September. Honourable Members! So we have looked at the agenda for this sitting. The agenda for the remote emergency sitting on 16 June will continue at 9.40 a.m. So let's keep working at 9: 40 a.m. So the first remote 17 June this year... There's also a record of Members. And after registration I closed the first remote emergency sitting on 17 June this year. Date: 17.06.2021 09:23:00 bal001 Motif for voting: Registration of Members' presence Video broadcast of the sitting
