ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U1	Dear colleagues, The third remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 21 October 2021. On the agenda, Bureau reports. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Andreja Juša, Jura Juša, Jura Pūce, Raivja Dzintars and Anda Čakša be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. ‘ Andrey Judin, a Member, has signed up to speak about it. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U2	Hello, colleagues! Last week, in the Subcommittee on Criminal Law Policy, we invited representatives of the police, KNAB, the Prosecutor General's Office and the Ministry of Justice to clarify the situation with false certificates, whether the existing regulation is sufficient or whether we can take action. Overall, the answer was that several criminal proceedings had been initiated, there were several articles of the Criminal Law that were applicable in the cases in question. In particular, Article 275 of the Criminal Law, which provides for liability for counterfeiting and use of the document, is provided for responsibility of persons who hold certain positions but are not officials... for the benefit of these mentioned persons... the responsibility for entering false information into databases is provided for. So there are articles that can be applied. At the same time, we received information that there are also problems, and with this bill we want to solve the problems. In particular, under Article 275 of the Criminal Law, the person who counterfeits the document and uses the document may be held liable. It must be understood that, with regard to vaccination certificates in our supermarkets and other institutions, there is no record of who has directly produced the document, so it can be very, very difficult to prove that a person has used the document. We have, for example, received information that there are more than 150 people in one of the criminal proceedings who may be using counterfeit documents. You can imagine what capacity the police need to check in which supermarket a person has presented this document in a theatre or other institution. But we all understand that people buy such documents... certificates, not just to collect them. We therefore propose to lay down the responsibility for obtaining a false certificate. This will allow the police to work more effectively and to respond when this document is obtained. This is one of the proposals. The second proposal relates to a situation where one person uses a certificate issued to another person. It is envisaged and proposed to criminalise only those persons who have not been vaccinated so that they do not have the right to such documents. This is not the case when someone forgot his own and took away a document issued to another person. The question is a situation where a person is clearly aware that he does not have such a document, but is trying to use... and thereby engage in fraudulent practices. Our aim is not to punish people, our main aim is to prevent and deter them from committing violations. Therefore, the law also provides that, if a person voluntarily reports the acquisition of a certificate, it shall be exempt from criminal liability. And the fourth. We offer to increase the penalty for offering persons to take action for some consideration. It's not bribery, because bribery applies to officials, but, for example, nurse or any other employee to whom such a reward is offered... may be held liable for such an offer. Currently, punishment is forced labour and fines, and this is obviously not proportionate to the damage that can be caused. I call for support for this draft law to be passed on to the Legal Commission. I think we need to work on this project quickly enough so that the relevant amendments are adopted as soon as possible and can be applied. Thank you. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U3	Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Legal Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Criminal Law” tabled by Mr Juša, Mr Pouce, Mr Dzinta and Mr Čakša, stating that it is the Commission responsible! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. On the agenda - under the heading ‘Handling draft laws’. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the control of the spread of infection”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U4	Good afternoon, honourable colleagues! Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1204/Lp13). For the second reading, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has received nine proposals and has also examined them. 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, Bhutan. This provides for a transitional period during which taxis operating in the territory of Riga International Airport extend the transitional period before establishing new rules. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The period shall be extended to 31 December 2022. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U5	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U6	2. - a proposal from Member Petravičs. Provision shall be made for a lump sum allowance of EUR 500 for pension beneficiaries and persons with disabilities. Such a benefit would be paid regardless of vaccination or vaccination. There was a rather broad debate on this proposal. What the Legal Office has also pointed out is a couple of things. First of all, the Legal Office pointed out that this is a new form of benefit, so it is not linked to the vaccination benefit that we are trying to pursue in this draft law. Nor is there any provision here for how this would affect the budget, how much it would pay to the budget. It would also be legally necessary to strengthen and clarify this proposal in order to support it. Following the debate, the Commission decided not to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U7	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, The benefit of EUR 20 cannot in any case be attributed to compensation for electricity, gas or heating, as originally stated, and today's first reading of this draft law here, from the parliamentary tribunal, was reported - that it could be a support during the price increase. Additional financial support for seniors is always positive, whatever the name and purpose of this support is, but this is an attempt to motivate with EUR 20 per month, giving EUR 20 per month in exchange for the vaccine, to buy seniors. Knowing how in an inconvenient situation most Latvian seniors are, of course, will take advantage of this opportunity, and that is not to be condemned. It is the despair and despair of the seniors. Undoubtedly, seniors and persons with disabilities are at risk and must try to protect them from illness by all means possible. Regardless of the money offered, it is more reasonable (and it is also very necessary) if an elder is addressed by a family doctor so that a person can get answers to all their questions, find confidence, trust in the vaccine, and gain peace of mind. But if you don't know how to address a person, you're trying to buy it. And sometimes it's also a solution. However, a solution must be found to compensate for the sharp rise in prices. For seniors care must be maintained by the Ministry of Welfare, it is not possible to mislead the public that the Ministry of Economics is already doing something - for the poor and large families of children will already apply a euro. A housing allowance shall be paid to deprived persons. The income level of a poor person is currently set at 272 euros for the first person and 190 euros for each future person in the household. The calculation of the housing allowance shall take account of all the expenses incurred in respect of housing and shall take effect from 1 July of this year. Thus, electricity according to meter readings, but not more than 100 kilowatts per month, is paid by one person in the household and 30 kilowatts per month for each subsequent person in the household, but not more than 200 kilowatts per month by several persons in the household. The household allowance is calculated as the difference between the guaranteed minimum income, actual expenditure and household income. Consequently, people with a pension of just over EUR 272 will not receive any benefit from the Ministry of Economics. Furthermore, prices are rising not only for electricity, gas and heating, but also for food and clothing. The elders to survive, but they also work... another part that could have done so. It is also denied today because many areas cannot work anymore. The Ministry of Welfare, with these amendments, wanted to shoot two hazels with one shot - to set compensation for electricity only for vaccinated seniors, who would be both a vaccination allowance and electricity compensation, but it turned out that both of them would avoid discrimination against the Constitutional Court. Why EUR 500? On the basis of inflation, expenditure could increase by EUR 30 to EUR 40 per month. The Bank of Latvia expects that such a high level of inflation could continue until the autumn of next year. In the budget and financial (tax) commission, I also offered... if there are any other offers - is it another amount, or is there anything else to be clarified... because the deadline for submitting proposals was really very short - 30 minutes... So that I propose to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission to form my own proposal, but unfortunately it did not support it either, so please support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U9	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U10	Dear colleagues, We can remember how many times the Saeima has voted in favour of reduced VAT on energy services - gas, electricity, heating. We have had several discussions within the framework of MyaBalss.lv proposals, which are always very, very gladly supported by the Saeima, because they know that there is no responsibility... We can see which working groups are currently working under the auspices of Mr Wittenberg, the Ministry of Economic Affairs. It is likely that we will not find any working groups that are working to reduce VAT on these services. This would, of course, be a solution for all, and it would also help the older men. In this case... We also see that the Saeima has repeatedly rejected the latest proposals by individual Members on reduced VAT for heating and gas. Nothing is done on the part of the government to stop this price rise by compensating citizens for these prices. I understand that Latvia cannot interfere in big business, but in some way, as other countries have done, we could have done. In this case, yes, indeed, there's such a sniffing going on here... We can see because... How many people this winter will not be able to pay bills, I think none of you have counted, especially given that several thousands of people will just leave you out of work. That will certainly be the subject later on. I call for this proposal to be supported and for it to be supported exactly to the extent that it is required. On the legal nuances, I think it really is a reservation, because we know that the commission is always able to correct any legal nuances that could be corrected... every step if there was political will and if there was a wish to see such a proposal in the law. I therefore call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U11	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the commission, what will you say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U12	Maybe I'll just repeat the legal office's argumentation and... issues. Thus, first of all, this proposal provided for the introduction in principle of a new form of benefit that has not been the case so far. Similarly, support of EUR 500 for all these target groups is likely to amount to a rather large total in the national budget, and it is not clear what it is... and has not also assessed whether this is the best form of aid which could be provided objectively. The relevant authorities are probably as quick as they can (Not heard.) ... whether this will best achieve its objective. Consequently, in view of these arguments, the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U13	Thank you. Please call me! Let us vote on the motion by Member Ramona Petraviča! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 50, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U14	3. - a proposal from Members Tatar and Valaiņš. In principle, this proposal maintains the same... aid already proposed, changing one significant nuance. This aid, which the Ministry of Welfare is running, would not only be paid in the case of a complete vaccination course, but, in this case, if we were to support it, it would be paid in the case of an ongoing vaccination course... as a result. Questions arise here - whether it will motivate people to complete the vaccination course or whether it is a good mechanism to achieve the result that the Ministry of Welfare has planned. This proposal therefore led to a wide debate, but at the end of the vote, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission decided that it would keep the "full vaccination course", so that it would complete the course... would be the most precise way to really promote vaccination rather than pay when it is introduced. Consequently, the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U15	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U16	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, This proposal. I think everyone understands that one of the objectives of the proposal (and in general the objectives of the draft law) is to help people to overcome not only Covid-19 at this point, to somehow promote this vaccination coverage for seniors, but also to cope with the growing communal bills that will inevitably be held by every citizen of Latvia, especially seniors. Here I would like to draw attention, colleagues. That offer is... In a way, the basic offer is correct, but it does not mean the circumstances why a number of seniors have not gone to vaccination. For example, if we look at what the head of the Latvian Pensioners Federation, Mrs Barča, said in July, when she called... already in July she called on the responsible authorities to focus in particular on communication with seniors, especially with seniors over 90 years of age, where the vaccination coverage was 30 per cent. The question is, has the government ever done anything in this period to turn to these citizens in principle? I think we can all not deceive ourselves - there was, by nature, no focus. Outbound vaccinations, which are currently taking place closer to the population, especially for seniors, have just begun. The situations can vary greatly, and it is the seniors who are most in a difficult situation who are often not at all able to obtain this vaccine. Maybe this 20 euros from the moment he receives the first vaccine... would already start paying the same amount as for all other pensioners who have completed the full vaccination course... there would be a certain motivation, helper and cover more people, namely these seniors, where, unfortunately, we are in a rather sad situation if we compare not only at the level of the Baltic States, but also at the European level. That is why this proposal, in my opinion, is appropriate. That's right. And most importantly... I'm not an expert in the field of medicine, I didn't claim to be like that, but how many publications you can read about the positive properties of these vaccines, then the first dose of the vaccine... from the moment it's received... reduces the risks of hospitalization and in some way... gives you some chance that this disease, if any, will be easier. So inevitably... Even receiving the first dose of vaccine already helps to relax our healthcare system, which I think is the most important one at the moment. Next, colleagues. Look at the reality at the moment. Now, the actual situation... If the elder, when he sees this bill, figure out - yes, I want to vaccinate, then the moment when he can qualify for this allowance... It will be a certain time... one month, even one and a half, depending on the vaccine he has received. The question is how long he can even get to the vaccine... Right now. Even if he does not have a problem with mobility, even if he is all right with mobility, if he can go to that place, even in such cases, waiting time can be as high as 10, 13... and 13 days. That is the reality of today. If a person has the opportunity to drive a car anywhere, there's no problem. You can get that vaccine tomorrow or even today, but there are situations... and, unfortunately, there is a situation in Latvia that not all seniors can leave everywhere. There are a number of people who can't go anywhere, so they have to take the vaccine home. That is unfortunately the case. Can we say fairly right now that we have done our utmost to get this vaccine? I don't think so. And don't deceive yourself that everything has been done. Not everything has been done. Neither have we addressed them, nor have we been able to supply them with these vaccines in a way that is acceptable to them. Therefore, colleagues, I believe that this proposal, if we really think about the health system, is in the right place and at the right time, and I think it should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U17	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U18	Dear colleagues, In the current situation, we are in favour of this step by the government, namely to pay the seniors this allowance for vaccination. But in his haste and vigor, the government once again set up a brother. If we look at this offer, then... What is being offered is that the payment of that benefit begins with the first day of the month in which the person has completed the complete vaccination course. Colleagues! We're all watching news... A pensioner who today, referring to the law that we have adopted today - I think we will adopt this law today - is beginning to look for vaccination opportunities... We all look at the news, we all see what is happening in fact in the microdistricts - as people, pensioners stand in queues to get vaccinated; as they complain they cannot access vaccines in their places of residence. And then... then it will take some more time, some vaccines may even be a month before they are able to complete the vaccination process in full. But today's heating and electricity bills are already twice as high, they have to pay them today, not in a month, when they finish this vaccination course. That is why our fellow Members' proposal is in the absolutely right direction. We at the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission... I propose to colleagues in the Commission that this proposal be modified, to create a proposal from the committee responsible, which would make it possible for pensioners to be paid this benefit as early as the first time that they are vaccinated with the first dose. The second payment - next month - would already depend on whether this pensioner has also been vaccinated for the second time. In this situation, we would also help those people... grant a benefit to help pay adult electricity and heating bills also to pensioners who have started the vaccination process but who will only complete it after a month. Already today, colleagues, help. But, as I said, in their victories, the coalition Members rejected this proposal and are now in a great hurry to move forward with this, so to say, the semi-adjusted version, which will undoubtedly lead to the anger of many pensioners - the anger of people who will start the vaccination process but who will not be able to receive benefits now. They will only receive them in a month - when the vaccination process is completed. Well, my fellow Members, I can only say this right now - unfortunately... I would very much like our colleagues from the coalition to finally draw conclusions. We'll see, by the way, in the next proposals... This once again shows that the government itself makes mistakes all the time, and then corrects them. This is another time. Even if you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, point out colleagues from the opposition. You can, of course, reject all this in principle, but trust me, you will be worse off yourself, because these proposals are very much in place. And those constituents - they will already be the same pensioners who will now appreciate how big a brother is the bill that you have created in a great hurry and refuse to modify in principle their amendment. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U19	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U20	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Every day we read with horror, some horror, how many people in Latvia are hospitalised, resuscitation and how many die from Covid-19. We are not talking here, in this proposal, about the history of what should have been done, about what should have been done quite differently, but we are dealing together with how we can, together, reduce the number of hospitalised people and the number of possible deaths. We know that the incentives for people to choose to protect their health can be different. There may be negative incentives - with punishment, with drastic restrictions - and there may be positive incentives. If we are talking about this particular proposal, this allowance, actually a vaccine allowance of EUR 20 - I think it is not huge, it will not cover many of the costs of these energy sources, the meagre increase in prices for gas, electricity, heat, fuel and so on, and so on, food and many other things, but it would still be an incentive to vaccinate. In this proposal, we did not accept this amount, because it is the government's intention, has been debated in the government, and some budget calculations have been made. What we encourage and what we... By the way, we can also read the opinion of medical professionals that even after the first dose of the vaccine, the possibility of hospitalisation or death is significantly reduced - not as much as after the second, of course, but after the complete course of vaccination, but substantially reduced. Not enough, but yet. In my opinion, we should do our utmost to make sure that people are already ready to do so and that there are positive aspects for people to take the first step, because our common concerns and also the concerns of the medical sector are that people are giving up the vaccine at all, that they are living in separate information facilities. A great deal of disinformation is related to vaccination. And it's in both directions: there are people who are very hot for vaccination, as well as those who are very hot against vaccination, there's mistakes, but... Many people are afraid to take the first step. However, in our view, it is the first step that is very, very important: firstly, a person is starting this vaccination course; secondly, he can observe his health; secondly, he feels that after receiving the vaccine nothing is happening that most of them were afraid of, he was afraid of - what could happen to his health. We have a reasonable, actually reasonable, belief that the number of hospitalised people and the number of people who died in our country could then be slightly reduced. Therefore, colleagues, to put the start of the vaccination course into this specific provision - it is vital that people take the first step. And why the start of vaccination is... complete? If we look at this norm... for this particular date by which it must be possible, then in parallel... We know that many people who have stood for hours in a row have not yet received the vaccine - either because the vaccine they wanted has ended, or because they have not been supplied enough in a given place, or because there have been other reasons why a person has left the vaccination centre to come there, perhaps in a week, two or a month later. So, colleagues, if we want... At least we think... And what I also asked for in the Commission, but apparently... There were no medical experts present to confirm that it is very important for a person to take the first step in the protection of his health by means of a vaccine. And when it comes to the 60+ group of people, this is vital. Therefore, let us not look at it here: the position and the opposition. Let's go, we endorse this proposal! If we see... or if there are concerns, as the rapporteur has also said, that someone could not complete their vaccination course, then I can say that we will come back to this issue together in the Commission, let us amend the norm in the Saeima, but it is important that people now start to protect their health. Therefore, colleagues, I really call for support for this specific proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U21	Name of Member Evita Hall-Gross. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U22	Hello, honourable Members! The question of "a little help" and "a little call" is definitely sometime in place, but this time, if we are talking - and we are talking! - about human lives... it’s “a little” – it won’t help people get out of... death. And that is why this draft law aims at calling people to complete the vaccination course, going to the end to stay alive. The same discussion took place at the Cabinet of Ministers on 12 October, where... It may have been thought that perhaps only the vaccination course started was enough, but these numbers are inexorable: today, 21 of the 23 dead are over 60. In this pandemic, we have lost more than two thousand people over 60 years in total. And a little bit of help is impossible. We can simply call on people to do what they have to do to the end. And that is the purpose of this draft law. I call on us not to be afraid of being precise and direct in our objectives, because then we will achieve the goal. But if we deviate from our goal and say, ‘ A little we can, a little we can’t... Why don't you just start... “ How many cases have been reported when a person who has begun but has not finished vaccination goes to hospital and dies. I think that the objective is clear, and the Law Office has also indicated it. Our aim is to promote vaccination, which is a co-operative vaccination - a full course. That is why I am asking for courage and for this to be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U23	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U24	Dear colleagues, I also followed these discussions with the government, which was an opportunity for everyone, and I would like to say that the objectives are: one is to promote the coverage of vaccination, and the other is to help citizens in relation to future heat bills... and also look back a little at the reasons why we are in the situation we are in. As I mentioned at the beginning... How much have we worked very hard, then, to make this vaccination a higher level for these seniors? I'm sorry... Unsorted - position, opposition... In a way, we have not done all our work to the end; neither have we paid particular attention to this from the opposition... directly to this Title. I really needed more. But that's the decision at this point, when there's such a situation in hospitals... Even starting the vaccination would already be a positive signal... and indeed - in two directions. For these people right now... October, November bills for both electricity and heat will be such that such support will be necessary. If the support, this EUR 20, is sometime in December, January, these people will probably have been living in some diseases because they have not been able to buy the right, necessary medicine for themselves, and maybe they will have their second vaccination... a second dose of vaccine will not be given solely because they do not have enough money for public transport to go to that vaccination centre. We now need to support older people - with all possible methods! - from the first step, i.e. from the time they choose to carry out the vaccination. They now need such help. If we're going this way, then let's go, let's go from the first step! And this is not a story of courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U25	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U26	Dear colleagues, It seems to me that it is not clear here for some colleagues that there is a difference between "good" and "very good". And if the solutions offered were properly and carefully analysed, and not so hastyly moving forward with all of them, then you can also do very well. But here... I repeat: neither is this proposal put forward... maybe not qualified as ‘very good’, although time to submit proposals... So much time wasn't given, colleagues, did you? Again: at present, those benefits will only be paid after a full vaccination course, so pensioners who are now going to start this vaccination course will probably not receive one month's benefit. If we're in charge of the commission, referring to our... to my proposal, to formulate a Commission proposal, which would make it possible for the first month's benefit to be paid when a person starts vaccination, but future benefits would only be payable if the vaccination was completed, then this would be a very good proposal, a very good initiative. But, as I said, unfortunately, the position favours making a mistake, letting a brother go: a better brother than supporting the proposal of the opposition. Such is the slogan of these ruling coalitions. And the results, colleagues, are all visible to us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U27	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mr. Znotins, what do you say? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U28	In principle, as I said, the Commission had quite a debate. And the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare explained quite well what discussions have taken place in the Cabinet on this matter. Final result by listening to both sides and argumentation... Thank you to the Members for the substantive proposal that had been tabled, but the Commission decided, however, that a better goal... better, easier to achieve the intended objective... that this should be done more precisely, without supporting this proposal, 3. And the commission has not supported it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U29	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - Tatar and Valaini's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 48, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U30	4. - the proposal of the Minister for Welfare, Eglitis, which intends to clarify the first paragraph of Article 74. Its essence is as follows: the word “consilium” is changed to “specialist or specialist consilium”. Because it's a little extended, but... more editorialally. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U32	5. - the proposal of the Minister for Welfare, Eglīks. Related to this... So editorially specified... and connected... And that was also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U33	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U34	6. - the proposal of the Minister for Welfare, Eglitis, which provides for the exclusion of the text... and related to the previous proposal. So it's editorialally clear... and predicting that... Yes, the application... An application will have to be made by the national social security agency if such a vaccination is not possible in the case in question. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U35	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U36	7. - the proposal of the Minister for Welfare, Eglīks. Associated with the previous one. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U38	8 / 8 - the proposal by Mr Eglitis, Minister for Welfare, which provides for the extension of Article 76, first paragraph, point 2, by the words 'or the opinion on the need to postpone vaccination against Covid-19', therefore relates to the same thing that I explained earlier. If the doctor consilium or specialist admits... The procedure under which it is to be provided for in order to receive this allowance in any event shall therefore be laid down. Members supported the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U39	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U40	And nine. - the proposal of the Minister for Welfare, Eglīks. Editable. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U41	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U42	We have therefore examined all the proposals in this draft law. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, I call for support for the second, final reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection".
ParlaMint-LV_2021-10-21-PT13-2306-U43	Thank you for your report. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, 82, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda of the sitting. I would like to present you to the Members' question. It has been submitted by Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Maris Možvillo, Lubova Švecova, Ramona Petraviča and Karina Sprūde, and it is addressed to the Minister for Health, Pavilts. There are complementary issues... with those already submitted... on the tests... and a whole series of other questions. The question is referred to the Minister. Dear colleagues, The registration of the presence of Members has also expired. Thank you for your work. I'm closing the sitting. Good evening!
