ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U1	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Please take your seats in the Saeima sitting room! We will begin the examination of the agenda of the ordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 16 September 2021. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by a hammer. Impression: “Inese, you hear very badly!” ) Colleagues! There's already been complaints about bad hearing. ( The box “Yes! ”) ) It is possible that there is noise in the hall at fault. ( The box “No! ”) ) So let’s try not to talk first and listen to the sitting. But I also ask the technical staff to make sure that noise problems are not caused by any technical disturbances. Thank you. Before starting to discuss the agenda of the approved sitting, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received requests for amendments to the agenda of the sitting which has already been approved. ( Interface: The Saeima’s Order Row!) ) The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy asks for paragraph 8 of the agenda - the bill on the Law on the Single Information System - to be removed from the agenda of the Saeima sitting. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks for the draft decision to be included on the agenda of the sitting “On the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 741/Lm13). Do Members object to the amendments to the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. The budget and financial (tax) commission asks to amend the agenda of the sitting and to include in it the draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law on the State Budget 2021” (No. 742/Lm13). Do Members object to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The agenda has been amended. And Members Evija Papule, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tavars, Uldis Augulis, Gundars Dauge, Jānis Vucāns, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ramona Petraviča, Ieva Krapāne, Maris Možvillo, Ralfs Nemiro and Eriks Pucens are asking for amendments to the agenda of the Saeima meeting and to include in it the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to revoke the decision on the reorganisation of the University of Liepaja, Daugavpils University and Rezekne Academy of Technologies”. Are Members opposed to changes to the agenda? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Feldman: Yes! ) Members have reservations. We must therefore make a decision by voting. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to cancel the decision on reorganization of the University of Liepaja, Daugavpils University and Rezekne Academy of Technologies” on the agenda of the Saeima sitting! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 31, for - 44, for - 2. So the draft decision is not on the agenda for today's sitting. We have therefore examined the changes to the agenda of the sitting. Let us begin with the amended agenda. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Protection of Species and Habitats” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection by Members. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Members Ēriks Pucens, Vjačeslavs Dombrovskis, Evija Papule, Kaspars Ģirgens and Ramona Petravičs have submitted a draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of infectious spread”, which the Parliamentary Bureau proposes to hand over to the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, establishing that it is the committee responsible and to the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs as the co-responsible commission. ‘ Ēriks Pucens, a Member, has applied for this.” Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U2	Hello, colleagues! Hello, Presidium! We and our colleagues have submitted the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, where we emphasize... We know very well how these certificates can be obtained: people either go to vaccination or have become sick and come to a doctor and have carried out tests. However, I would also like to point out that there are people who, by following the instructions, have become ill - and are also ill without signs - and who have developed natural antibodies. As we know, very many people say that we need to trust in science so that we can combat this pandemic. But I have a question... and other people are wondering: If we are able to scientifically prove that we have antibodies against the community, we are in a state of noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) , so why do we ignore the wishes of the population to issue certificates also to those who have shown antibodies? And we can see that these antibody tests... regularly taking them show that people have natural immunity to show that they are able to get to the end of the virus. And immunity is also improving. Our colleagues from the Saeima, too... I would like to mention that my colleague Andris Skride himself has also pointed out in his twilight... and not just... that the vaccine will win this pandemic, but... Andris has pointed out in several of his twilights that this immunity will be the one that will win this pandemic. So that I call, colleagues, to support and work in the Commission, not just to point out... Because there is really a very large group of people who have been at home, who have not gone to the doctor and who have passed the analysis... and now they are in such a disfellowshipped group because they have been obedient rather than immediately going to pass the analysis. But maybe this is all just... Why is this antibody test not considered? Well, maybe it's good for someone that we... people who are going to pass only the analysis... every time you go to the analysis, it's 25 euros or 24 euros. And there are a lot of people in the regions who have to go every three days to hand over. It may already be that it does not cost any of the Members of the Saeima much money, but it is a great money for people in the regions. Thank you. And please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U3	“Pret” has applied to speak by Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U4	Good morning, very honourable leader of the Saeima sitting, Mrs Libiņa-Egneres! Honourable Members! Dear Members, I applied to ask you not to forward this draft law to the Commission this time, because I believe it is too early. And I'll see why. I completely agree with what Mr Pucene said: we need to make decisions based on science. Indeed, in humans levels of antibodies against the co-vidvirus are produced after exposure to the virus. Unfortunately, after a person has antibodies, we can't say... and it is not possible to identify when this contact has occurred, or when a person has become infected with the virus. And for this reason, it is not really possible to say what the protection of this person is in the current circumstances against new infection and further spread of the virus - as opposed to situations where the disease, the disease in question, is fixed, the date of the disease is known, or where vaccination has taken place and the date of vaccination is known. And the science of the world follows the confirmation of the people who have been overloaded, and how - vaccinated people. So what happens in their body and how they are resistant to new, repeated infections. So... This is the main problem why we can't for this moment... because we lack scientific evidence for this fact that there are simply antibodies in the blood, equal to vaccination or fixed flaking, after which a person can get this certificate - the covid certificate. The second reason we call - I also call! - not to refer the draft law to commissions, is that the fact that, in fact, the European code does not provide for such an opportunity to be issued to persons who simply have an appropriate level of antibodies in their blood, but for whom the above mentioned facts have not been established - the fact of congestion or the fact of vaccination. It is not for nothing that this possibility is being envisaged, because, as I said, there is a lack of such scientific evidence. Thirdly. I would also like to deny what Mr. Pucene said: that these people seem to be divided and included in what... as for another group. These people are invited to receive the vaccine from professionals and medical practitioners and to receive the certificate accordingly. And with the spread of the delta virus, doctors and experts are calling for vaccination as soon as possible, not following the relevant three - month period after the disease. — Dep. E. Pucen’s exclamation.) ... vaccinate more quickly against co-infection. So these people are just invited to pick up, it is easy, simple, convenient to do for everyone. And that's why... Last but not least, I would just like to stress that there is also a scientific justification for the fact that, however, immunity after vaccination is more potent than after overloading. At least these are the current findings from scientific publications. Colleagues, thank you very much for your attention. I call for this draft law not to be referred to the committee responsible this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U5	Thank you. One Member has spoken about the referral of a draft law to commissions, one Member against the referral of a draft law to commissions. The decision shall be taken by the Saeima by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption as the committee responsible and the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Proliferation Management” presented by Member Ērika Pucena, Vjačeslavas Dombrovska, Evija Papule, Kaspars Ģirgens and Ramonas Petravičs as the co-responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! About - 33, against - 48, refrains - 2. The draft law has not been passed on to the commissions. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the Member Krista Baumane, Linda Mednes, Daces Rukšāne–Ščipčinskas, Ata Leieniņa, Ilmāra Dūriša, Regina Ločmeles, Edgars Taukara, Ramonas Petravičas, Inguna Ribena, Evija Papules and Valeria Agešin's draft law “Amendments to the Law on Animal Protection” be referred to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission, stating that it is a committee responsible. ‘ Member Krista Baumane has applied for the referral of the draft law to the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U6	Good morning, very honourable chair of the sitting! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Everyone who looks at us and listens to us! In ancient times, animal fur was needed to prevent people from getting cold. Today, when there are so many other materials from which to make warm clothing, it is not necessary to keep in cages, force them to multiply, and brutally kill wild beasts. It is an unethical, cruel and disappearing business. I believe that today it is no longer justified. It pollutes the environment and does not give a real contribution to the Latvian economy. The purpose of the amendments is to prohibit the production of fur in Latvia for fur; they will not prohibit the purchase, purchase, sale and wearing of fur. No one will take the fur away from anyone. The rearing of fur animals is prohibited in 16 European countries. This year, the Estonian Parliament adopted a decision to ban the rearing of fur animals after a transitional period and is seriously considering this in our neighbour Lithuania. In Denmark, which has been the world’s largest seabird producer so far, 17 million boats were killed and destroyed last year because they were infected by the community and there were real concerns about the transmission of the infection to humans. This probably means that the fur business in Denmark has ended because it is unlikely to be restored due to public pressure. Latvian society does not support the rearing of fur animals either. According to the SKDS survey conducted in July of this year 63 percent of Latvians support the ban on fur farming. Latvian society is ready for this. Are politicians prepared to make such a decision? The planned amendments provide that the ban will enter into force after five years. It is a transitional period for entrepreneurs to be able to reorient their business and employees to find new jobs. However, this is still to be discussed by the parliamentary commission if we vote on this draft law. I would like to thank my colleagues from almost all the groups who supported this proposal - the opposition and position and the independent Members. Thank you. Although it is about animals, I believe that this vote would be such a small but significant victory for humanity. Colleagues, I call on you to support the bill and to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U7	Thank you. ‘ Ljubova Švecova, a Member, has applied for the referral of the draft law to the commission. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U8	Thank you. Well, given that the political power of the industry does not intend to defend the industry, Latvia's business interests have long been secondary and are not significant at all, but the hypocrisy market beats a high wave... and, when Members’ “achievements” in writing reports are the replacement of the pot lids in Saeima’s toilets (see, this is “achievement”!) So what do we wonder now when we're talking about other things? I mean, what is duality? It is very modern to become green, digital and animal defenders when it gives political dividends, when you can come and take pictures, appear beautifully and tell nightmares. But where have you been, dear colleagues (Interface: When?) ), when the Hunting Act was passed, when did you continue to permit the shot of lynx? And they're still going to be shot. Where were you, Mrs Šchipčinskas, the nature protection defender who signed this application when the nature protection organisations asked against the application of optical sights and heat capture devices? Yes, of course, it is being lobbyed by a colleague of your party who has nothing to do with nature protection. And now you are telling me that such a draft law will ensure nature conservation and that it is very modern?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You know, Lithuania produces fur. And, you know, the Lithuanian company in Milan has a store in the top of the exclusive store. Does Latvia have a shop in Milan on an exclusive street - some one that belongs to Latvia, which is owned by Latvian capital and which also provides dividends to Latvia and jobs? You're a bear, a hypocrite, a double-cotch. And this bill only shows your duality, mercenary and absolute lack of interest in the development of Latvia's economy. ( Internouncing call.) In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, you said that it had no impact. In fact, it has an impact, but you are not interested in those jobs, you are not interested in exports, you are not actually interested in those people who work. All this bill is a lie, arogance and absolute disregard for business. I will not support this performance and the market of hypocrisy and ask the other clear and logical people not to engage in cheap PR campaigns. ( Intersentence from the UK Group: “Watch! ” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken about the transfer of a draft law to a commission, one about the transfer of a draft law to a commission. The decision of the Saeima shall be taken by voting. Please call me! We will vote to hand over to the National, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Animal Protection” tabled by Member Krista Baumane, Linda Mednes, Daces Rukšāne-Ščipčinskas, Ata Leieniņa, Ilmara Dūriša, Regina Lochmeles, Edgars Taukara, Ramona Petravičas, Inguna Ribena, Evija Papule and Valeria Agešin, stating that it is the responsible commission! Please vote mode! Please, let's vote! Please get the result! For - 45, for - 33, for - 3. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes the draft law on social services and social assistance submitted by the Social and Labour Affairs Commission (No. 1152/Lp13) transferred to the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the Commission responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? Members shall not object. So the draft law has been passed on to the commission. Colleagues, next item on the agenda - "On own-initiative proposals submitted". The Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications has submitted its own proposal – the draft decision “On the way forward of the 14 725 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the abolition of the tax reform of 2021”. Do Members object to the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of today's sitting? There is no objection by Members. Consequently, this draft decision is on the agenda of today's sitting at the end of the agenda. The agenda of the next meeting was entitled 'On the granting of leave'. For unpaid leave granted to Ainars Latkovskis from 14 September to 16 September 2021. The Saeima Bureau has granted this unpaid leave and the Saeima is informed of it at the Saeima sitting. For granting unpaid leave to Member Evai Mārtuza from 21 September 2021 to 24 September 2021. We must make a decision by voting here in the Saeima sitting. Please call me! We will vote for granting unpaid leave to Member Evai Mārtuza from 21 September 2021 to 24 September 2021! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Before we start to examine the draft agenda section on the examination of draft laws, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from the Commission on Social Affairs and Labour Affairs concerning the draft law amending the law on social services and social assistance (No. 1152/Lp13) - to push this draft law forward at first reading (without re-examination by the committee responsible), to include it on the agenda of today's sitting by the Saeima. In addition, the Commission asks for changes to the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima on 16 September and for the first reading to be included in the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" following the agenda item of the meeting – "Amendments to the Law on Postal Services". Do Members object to such amendments to the agenda? Members shall not object. The order of business has been amended. So we're starting to look at draft laws. As the first, the draft law “Amendment to the Fisheries Act”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ivars Zarins. Second reading of the draft law Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U10	Hello, colleagues! We work with the draft law “Amendment to the Fisheries Act”. We have received one proposal from the Minister for Agriculture for the second reading. This proposal essentially proposes editorial corrections to the rule of law, which talks about the ban on industrial fishing, in particular to the public lakes in which it is intended. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U11	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U12	These too are all proposals. Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, call for support for the draft law at second, final, reading, because it is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U13	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on fisheries. Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending civil law, third reading. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Member Jānis Iesalnieks.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U14	Good morning, colleagues! We consider the draft law “Amendments to civil law” (No. 1046/Lp13) at third reading. Six proposals have been received by the Commission. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It calls for the public rivers and lakes set out in Annexes I and II to be listed in alphabetical order. This has so far not been respected in the table. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U15	So proposal 1 is supported by Members.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U16	2. - The legal commission's proposal. Complements the list of lakes listed in the district of Ādazi with the Great Baltezers, taking into account that part of the area of the area of the Great Baltezers is located in the municipality of Ādazi. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U17	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U18	3. - The legal commission's proposal. Technically arrange the table. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U19	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U20	4. - The legal commission's proposal. Associated with previously supported - 2. - a proposal for the Great Baltezer. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U21	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U22	5. - The legal commission's proposal. Also technically arrange the table. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U23	Supported by the Commission. Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U24	And six. - The legal commission's proposal. Lake Zvarde is excluded from the list of lakes in Annex II because this lake is included in Annex I. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U25	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U26	Thank you. These were all proposals. I call for the draft law to be supported at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of supporting the third, final, reading of the draft law on civil law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sitting - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Aldis Adamovičs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U28	Good morning, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Good morning, colleagues! The Commission of State Administration and Local Government has examined for the third reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Remuneration of Officials and Employees of State and Local Government Institutions” (No. 978 Lp13). No proposals were received by the Commission for the third reading. Please support the draft law at third reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U29	Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Compensation of Officials and Employees of State and Municipal Institutions” in the third, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Next - draft law "Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals", third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Dace Rukšāne–Ščipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U30	Hello, colleagues! We shall continue to examine draft law No. 500/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Festivals. There is only one proposal for the third reading, by the Commission responsible, and thus the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, which provides for a change in the date of entry into force of the law in the transitional provisions, thus replacing the figures and the words ‘on 14 January 2022’ with ‘on 1 January 2022’. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U31	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U32	No further proposals were received. I would remind you that the law will determine the procedure for applying for new sensitive measures and examining applications. I call for support to be given to the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U33	Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Security of Public Entertainment and Holiday Events”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 68, against and refrains - not. The law is passed. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Safety of Hydrotechnical Constructions of Hydroelectric Power Plants”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Ralph Nemiro. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U34	Dear President, Colleagues! Good morning! Two proposals have been made for this draft law. 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. This proposal has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U35	Therefore, proposal 1 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U36	And 2. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. This indicates that regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers must be drawn up by 30 November 2021. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U37	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U38	Colleagues, please support amendments to the draft law on the safety of hydrotechnical structures of hydroelectric power plants at third, final reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U39	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for support for the third, final reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Safety of Hydrotechnical Constructions of Hydroelectric Power Plants”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Postal Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Gatis Zamurs. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U40	Hello, head of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! In the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy we have examined the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” (No. 1146/Lp13) at first reading. The draft law provides for an extension by one year, until 31 December 2022, of the existing compensation arrangements for losses resulting from the supply of the subscribing press. The draft law provides that the application of subscription tariffs approved by the Commission for the regulation of public services will start from 1 January 2023. Okay. Firstly, on behalf of the Commission, I ask for urgency to be given to the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U41	So, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U42	So on behalf of the Commission, I ask you to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U43	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U44	On behalf of the Commission, please consider the draft law at second reading immediately without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U45	Are Members opposed to the second reading of this draft law? (Interface: ‘No!’) ) In the sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee? Thus, there is no objection to Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Postal Law”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Next draft law on the agenda of the sitting - Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance (No. 1152/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U46	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! In its meeting, the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has initiated and supported the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance. I would like to draw attention to the fact that today there will be another draft law that is being drawn from the Cabinet of Ministers and will be discussed in three readings. Two amendments have been incorporated into the draft law. One of them is in point 40 of the transitional provisions. The aim is "to extend the period by which municipalities have to establish binding rules on supplementary social assistance benefits for the payment of certain expenses linked to the consolidation of the binding rule on voluntary initiatives in the new municipalities". This transitional provision was approved by the Commission relatively recently, in the hope of the newly created municipalities being able to issue binding provisions before 1 October of this year. However, the current picture shows another reality and it is necessary to postpone this deadline to 1 January, which we are asked by local government leaders. In order to fulfil the condition that the requirement for municipalities to enter into force on 1 January, this norm must enter into force before 1 October, otherwise a situation may arise that the municipality does not provide support to persons who need it. The second amendment relates to the need to continue to provide benefits to staff of social services and accommodation providers if they are working under high risk conditions, taking care also of clients infected with Covid-19 and contact persons of these customers. Both of these amendments are proposed as urgent and urgent and the Social and Labour Commission therefore calls for urgent adoption of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U47	So, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" (No. 1152/Lp13) recognition as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U48	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call on the Saeima to accept it. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) ... the draft laws at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U49	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" (No. Support for first reading 1152/Lp13) Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 83, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U50	In view of this urgency - the proximity of 1 October - I call for this draft law to be examined and adopted by the Saeima immediately at second reading, without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U51	Do Members have reservations that these draft laws are being examined at second reading immediately at the Saeima sitting without a re-examination by the committee? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Members shall not object. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" (No. 1152/Lp13) support for the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! Please get the result! For - 82, for - no, for - 1. The law is passed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U53	Thank you. The next item is the first reading of the draft law on the prohibition of discrimination against natural persons who carry out economic activities. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs - Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U54	Good afternoon, colleagues! On 7 September of this year, the Commission of Human Rights and Public Cases examined draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination against Natural Persons - Performor of Economic Activities” submitted by the Ministry of Welfare (No. 1136/Lp13). The aim of the draft law is to clarify the legal provisions of the prohibition of discrimination against individuals who carry out economic activities, thereby eliminating the shortcomings in the transposition of the Council of Europe Directive implementing the principle of equal treatment between men and women in relation to access to and supply of goods and services. The draft law will reinforce the prohibition of discrimination and differential treatment of natural persons' access to and involvement in the purchase and sale of goods and services. The Commission requests that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U55	Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination against Natural Persons – an Economic Operator” as urgent! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U56	On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U57	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination against Natural Persons – an Economic Operator”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day on which we will discuss the draft law at second, final, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U58	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading, 21 September of this year, and for the second reading of the Saeima, 23 September of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U59	So, if there are no other proposals, the deadline for submitting the proposals to this draft law for the second reading is 21 September this year and the deadline is 23 September of the Saeima's ordinary sitting. Thank you. Next: draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U60	Hello, colleagues! In its meeting of 7 September this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law No. 1096/Lp13 - Amendment to the Military Service Law. The draft law contains two blocks of amendments. The first of these is related to the establishment of the Professional Secondary School of Colonel Oscar Kalpaks. The draft law stipulates that young people in this secondary school can obtain vocational secondary education and the qualification of the newest military instructor. Also, it is planned to issue the different marks of inventory, uniforms and secondary school for students and secondary school employees. Provision is made for students' right to receive paid health care, as well as for delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to issue regulations that will determine the types, scope, conditions and procedure of payment of health care services paid by secondary school students. A delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers is also intended to establish the procedure for ensuring the safety of secondary school students in classes and events organized by secondary school. Thus, the status of professional secondary school and conditions of implementation of education are strengthened in the draft law. The second block of amendments concerns soldiers on leave from professional service. Provision shall be made for compensation of sickness benefit to the reserve soldier called for military training if he is incapacity for work during training. A delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to determine the amount of compensation and the procedure for payment of the sickness allowance to the reserve soldiers who have received training. The draft law specifies the conditions for the payment of training expenses to persons who, under the current regulations, are required to reimburse the costs of their military and professional training or up-skilling. In order to facilitate the return of retired soldiers to the National Armed Forces, the amendments supplement Article 44 with 4.2 providing for the possibility of exempting a soldier from the reimbursement of training expenses if the retired soldier is re-accepted in professional service within two years of his leave and for a period of not less than five years. In that case, not only shall he be relieved of the reimbursement of part of the training expenses which was not paid on the day of his re-employment but, at the same time, of the part of the training expenses which he has paid in the form of a lump sum to be paid by the soldier for a period of not less than five years. In the event of a vacation, it is also planned that a person will be transferred to either the military service reserve or the Earthguard, if the person has expressed such a wish. The draft law was supported by the Commission. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U61	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Military Service Law! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U62	The deadline for submitting proposals is seven days - 23 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U63	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 23 September this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on National Security Act, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U64	The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption also examined draft law No. 1113/Lp13 - Amendments to the National Security Law. The current norms of the law provide that permission from the Cabinet of Ministers is required for essential participation in a commercial company important for national security. The concept of qualifying holdings is defined by the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, which requires the Financial and Capital Market Commission to delegate the right to issue external laws and regulations. In turn, the proposed amendments to the draft law clarify that when the Cabinet of Ministers evaluates transactions, the laws and regulations issued by the Commission on the Financial and Capital Markets may also be applied. The draft law also provides for clarification of the reference included in Section 38(2) of the Law on National Security to the Law on the Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism and Proliferation. At the same time, the draft law “shall exclude from Chapter VI of the Law on National Security the word “(voting rights)”, thus not restricting the determination of a material indirect interest in a commercial company of importance to national security to the criteria set out in Article 8 of the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”. In the Commission, the draft law was supported. On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support this at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U65	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on National Security". Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U66	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 23 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U67	There are no other proposals. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 23 September this year. Thank you. The next draft law on the agenda of the sitting - Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Raimonds Bergmanis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U68	On 7 September this year, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption discussed draft law No. 1124/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces. The draft law provides that military object security will be carried out by soldiers, landguards and security firm. According to the current regulation, a military object shall be real estate (part of it) owned or owned by the Ministry of Defence or by another natural or legal person (part of it) transferred to the National Armed Forces for the purpose of carrying out the tasks specified in this Law. National armed forces shall carry out a military object, which may also be a national defence object, separate national defence object, other than military object, as well as protection of certain critical infrastructure items. ‘ In the future, the facility’s security will not only be an action by the Military Police, but by all NBS units, soldiers and landguards.’ In order to ensure the protection of objects, the rights of the National Armed Forces shall be supplemented by the following rights: “ 1) require and receive free of charge from the National Defence Facility to be protected in the protection zone, within the protection zone around the State Defence Navigation Technical Equipment and within the protection zone around the Military Maritime Observation Technical Equipment the information of the owner of the real property or the legal owner of the protected facility necessary for the protection of the protected facility (safety); 2) perform the observation of the State Defence Facility to be protected in the protection zone, within the protection zone around the State Defence Technical Equipment and within the protection zone around the military Maritime Observation Technical Equipment with security technical systems and means, as well as using, storing and processing the information obtained by these technical means.” In order to ensure state security, the draft law stipulates that the National Armed Forces shall carry out surveillance by means of security technical systems and means. A delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers is planned to establish the procedure by which the National Armed Forces carry out the surveillance of the protected objects as well as their premises and territorial protection zones to be protected state defence objects, the protection zone around the technical means of navigation provided for by national defence, the protection zone around military maritime surveillance technical means, the public place, the location of military events and the persons present at these places with security technical systems and means, as well as the processing of data obtained as a result of such observation. The draft law intends to establish clearly the rights to be exercised vis-à-vis third parties by the personnel of the National Armed Forces and the National Armed Forces. The rights and duties of the security businessman vis-à-vis third parties when carrying out security of a military object shall be determined by the Law on Security Activities. The draft law is intended to supplement, alongside the military police, the competence of the State Police and Municipal Police - to carry out administrative infringement proceedings regarding administrative violations established by this Law - arbitrary entry into military facilities or objects protected by the National Armed Forces, as well as damage or destruction of military equipment. In the Commission, the draft law was supported, and I also ask the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U69	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the National Armed Forces”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U70	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 27 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U71	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading of the draft law shall be 27 September of this year. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft Law Amending the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U72	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Dear colleagues, Sitting viewers and listeners! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption has examined five draft laws, the first of which is “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data” at first reading. The draft provides for amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data, establishing the cases when the consent of a judge is not required to receive the passenger data of aircraft included in the Register of Aircraft Passenger Data, as well as specifying the amount of information to be indicated in the application regarding the receipt of the relevant data. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading, and I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U73	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Processing of Aircraft Passenger Data”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U74	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks - 30 September this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U75	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 30 September of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Act on Operational Activities, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U76	The second draft law examined by the panel is the draft law ‘Amendments to the Act on Operational Activities’. The draft law provides for the establishment of the right of entities of operational activities to include the information referred to in Section 23, Paragraph one of the Law on Operational Activities in the criminal intelligence support information system, as well as to establish a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers. The draft law provides for the clarification of Article 15 concerning the conduct of an operational experiment for the purpose of establishing the criminal or other unlawful conduct of persons. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading, and I also call on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U77	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Operational Activities”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U78	The deadline for the submission of proposals for this draft law is seven days - 23 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U79	In the absence of other proposals, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 23 September of this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law amending the Law on Arms Movement, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U80	The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Arms Movement” at first reading. The purpose of the amendments is to ensure fulfilment of the task given by the Cabinet of Ministers at its meeting on 4 September 2018 regarding necessary amendments to regulatory acts in the field of arms movement. Article 1 of the draft law provides for the rewording of Article 17 ‘Authorisation of acquisition of weapons’, as amended. The second paragraph of Article 17 reached the objective of reducing administrative burdens on individuals, thus facilitating the simplification of administrative procedures and improving the quality and availability of services provided by public administrations. The draft law provides for the expression of Article 20 of the law “Authorisation of Arms Implementation” in a new version, as well as Article 28, which determines the qualification test on the movement of weapons and ammunition. The title of Article 38 ‘Delivery of weapons’ is to be reworded and extended to cover the regulation of silencers. It is also planned to supplement the first paragraph of Article 90 of the Law with paragraph 8 by providing for the State Police the right to withdraw weapons of natural and legal persons, their essential components, if necessary, to clarify the circumstances in case the submitted firearm, its essential component or a large-energy pneumatic firearm does not comply with the data specified in regulatory enactments. This draft law does not provide for the introduction of new services, the improvement of existing services and the provision of services electronically. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U81	And ask the Saeima to support the bill in the first...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U82	... and asks the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U83	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Movement of Arms"! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U84	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks - 30 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U85	There are therefore no other proposals. The deadline for submitting proposals for second reading of the draft law shall be 30 September of this year. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft law amending the law on police (No. 1120/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U86	The commission responsible has also examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1120/Lp13) at first reading. This draft law provides for clarification of Article 35 of the Law “On Police” by stating that the standards of material technical provision of the State Police are determined by the Chief of State Police, thus creating an effective regulatory framework to ensure fulfilment of the tasks of the State Police with modern necessary logistical provision. The Commission has supported the draft law at first reading and calls on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U87	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1120/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U88	The deadline for submitting proposals is one week - 23 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U89	So there are no other proposals. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading shall be 23 September. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft law on amendments to the Law on Police (No. 1134/Lp13), first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U90	The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption at First Reading has also examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1134/Lp13) at first reading. The draft law has been designed to ensure that in cases where there is an immediate threat that a person located in or near the dwelling may cause damage to the life, liberty or health of the protected person, the police without a written application of the protected person shall take a decision ensuring separation between the person causing the threat and the protected person. The draft law is designed to implement the requirements of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and to ensure compliance of the Law “On Police” with the Law on Administrative Liability. The Commission has supported this draft law at first reading and calls on the Saeima to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U91	Thank you. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Police”” (No. 1134/Lp13) first reading support! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U92	The deadline for submitting proposals is one week - 23 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U93	So if there are no other proposals... which isn't... the deadline shall be 23 September of this year. Thank you. Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, Before considering draft laws further, the Saeima Bureau has received a number of requests for changes to the agenda of this sitting. The Committee on Budget and Finance (tax) asks for changes to the agenda of the ordinary sitting of the Saeima on 16 September 2021 and the draft decision of the Saeima “On the approval of the Saeima for the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. No 741/Lm13 and No 741/Lm13/Lm13/Lm3 on the consent of the Saeima to the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law on the State Budget 2021. (742/Lm13) to be included before the entry under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal, of trust or distrust’. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. The agenda for the sitting of the Saeima has been amended. We have also received a request from the Committee on Mandates, Ethics and Application to amend the agenda of the session of the Saeima on 16 September 2021 and the draft decision of the Saeima “On the way forward of the Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the abolition of tax reform of 2021”” before the section “Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, statements of trust or distrust”. Do Members object to the amendment of the agenda? There is no objection by Members. The order of business has been amended. The Saeima Bureau has also received a request from Members Edgars Tatars, Ulda Augulis, Gundars Dauges, Janis Vucanas and Janina Jalinska to declare a break at the Saeima meeting on 16 September ahead of item 28 of the draft decision on distrust to the Minister of Health, Daniel Pavluts, until 9 a.m. on 23 September this year. Mr Tavars has applied for amendments to the agenda. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U94	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! Today, as we know, it was intended to look at the issue of the resignation of the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut, about his suitability for office, but when we received news that the Minister Daniel Pavlut's family had yesterday come to the world by twins, little children, we believe that this issue should be looked at in a week's time, when the Minister (Dep. A. Neighbours: “After 10 years!” ; corrigendum: “eighteen!” )... that this issue should be seen in a week's time, when the Minister can take full part in the proceedings and defend himself. ( The drug is noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) Thank you. ( Milestones.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U95	Thank you. Do Members object to the adversarial of the adversarial? ( Interface: ‘ Yes! ’ ) And objections? ( INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP: “We want to work! ” ) So please call! We will vote for the adjournment of today's Saeima sitting before the agenda item - draft decision on Distrust to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavluts! Please vote mode! ( Independence: “You have submitted and now you will see! If there's... ( See the result.) On - 38, against - 35, refraining - 5. The decision is therefore not supported. The sitting shall not be adjudicated. We shall proceed to the agenda of the sitting. On the agenda - Draft Law Amending the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance (No. 1105/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social Affairs and Labour, Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U96	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs examined and conceptually supported the first reading draft law “Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance”. This draft law provides for a number of amendments on which I accept there will also be proposals and discussions. So one of them is the right to receive social rehabilitation for victims of violence who are staying in the Republic of Latvia with a temporary residence permit, persons who are third-country nationals or stateless persons. The possibility of granting social services to a person who does not have a declared place of residence due to objective circumstances is also foreseen. One of the amendments is to provide social services in exceptional circumstances. The fourth amendment is the declaration of residence and the right to social services and social assistance for a person living in a group house (the apartment). Go on. The fifth amendment provides for changes to the payment of special care benefits to persons who receive a state or municipal-funded service institution. Then there is further clarification: the amount of money for personal expenses is calculated from the amount of a state social security benefit for a child in an institution for long-term social care and social rehabilitation. And a few more editorial clarifications. The Social and Labour Commission has supported the first reading, and I also call on the Saeima to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U97	Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" (No. First reading support for 1105/Lp13! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U98	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 13 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U99	Consequently, there are no other proposals on time limits. The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 13 October this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy - Member Jānis Dūklavs... Not applicable. So there's Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U100	Dear President, Dear colleagues! Today I will hand out to my colleague a quick report on this draft law - Amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons, prepared by the Commission for second reading. 11 proposals were received. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U101	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U102	Two more. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U103	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U104	3. - a proposal from the committee responsible. Clearly supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U105	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U106	4. - also a proposal from the committee responsible. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U107	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U108	5. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U109	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U110	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was also supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U111	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U112	The same is true for 7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U113	Members also support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U114	On the other hand, there are eight. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U115	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U116	9. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U117	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U118	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U119	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U120	11. - a proposal from the committee responsible. The Commission was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U121	Members also support proposal 11.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U122	Good news: all the proposals have been examined. Please support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U123	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification of Natural Persons”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third, final, reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U124	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 23 September this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U125	So, if there are no other proposals, the deadline for the third reading is 23 September this year. Thank you. On the agenda of the next sitting - Draft law on Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Janina Kursīte. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U126	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy examined at first reading the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”. The aim is to improve the procedure for designating and registering animals and to determine the amount of the fee and the payment arrangements for registering the animals in the house (room). This provides for the addition of the fourth paragraph of Article 21 after the word “chip” with the words “registration in the database for the registration of animals of the home (room) of the Agricultural Data Centre”, as well as Article 21.3, which states that the municipality shall ensure compliance with the requirements for the identification and registration of dogs laid down in the laws and regulations on the registration of domestic (room) animals, supervision and control in the administrative territory concerned in accordance with the binding provisions of the municipality, as well as Article 25(6) in the following wording: “the procedure by which the animals of the house (room) are designated, registered, excluded from the register and also the amount of payment for the registration of domestic (room) animals”. The Commission has supported the first reading, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U127	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Veterinary Medicine”! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U128	The deadline for tabling proposals for second reading is 7 October this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U129	So, if there are no other proposals, the deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 7 October this year. Thank you. The next item on the agenda of the meeting is the "Review of Draft Decisions". On the agenda - draft decision “On the consent of the Saeima to reallocation of appropriations established in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 741/Lm13). On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U130	Hello, colleagues! Dear Speaker of the Saeima! The budget and financial (tax) commission examined the draft decision “On the Parliament’s approval of the reallocation of the appropriations set out in the Law on the State Budget 2021” (No. (741/Lm13) at its meeting on 15 September this year, and supported its direction to the Saeima. The draft decision provides for the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law on the State Budget 2021 from the Saeima’s budget programme “Prosecution of Saeima’s Activities” in the amount of EUR 88 471 to the project and measures implemented by the Ministry of Finance for the long-term commitment event “The grant for the reconstruction and restoration of real estate of SSS “State Real Estate” at Jēkaba iela 11, Riga. The Commission supported the draft decision and I call for it to be done at the Saeima sitting as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U131	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U132	Dear colleagues, This is one of the rare appropriations coming to the Saeima sitting, which you will most probably support automatically, but before you do it, I call on you to think about the following. Such appropriations - much more so - are regularly viewed by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. As we know, only this year will the country borrow close to two billion euros, its appropriations go through the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, and much of it goes to construction. So, colleagues, I have a question for you. Maybe those who in the last year... There has been at least some contact with construction this year, raise your hands! Anybody? ( The internouncing; dep.) A. Neighbours: “Juri Pūce! Resurrection!’ ) So please tell me, do you believe that construction costs have increased by two percent? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: ‘How much?’ ) Two per cent (interim call.) in the course of the year. ( Internoint.) (Laughter) Why am I saying that? Why do I say that, colleagues? Because only this week, the government examined a report by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, whose main aim is to answer the question of whether or not there is overheating in the construction sector. So the government examined it on Tuesday, took note of the conclusion that there was no overheating, but this report, colleagues, is based on statistics collected this summer - June, July. According to these statistics, the annual increase in construction costs was two per cent. If you believe that, then there is no overheating in the construction sector. As I said, the question is whether you have had some experience with construction; if you understand today that it is ridiculous, then overheating is. And then I call on you to look at any new initiative that involves building itself in a completely different way, because that means - if it is overheated (and it is happening), then it will not only be that taxpayers already overpay for public construction projects, but it could also have a similar effect in the economy, as it were, in nothing special times in 2007. Therefore, during this week's meeting of the Sustainable Development Commission Members decided both to invite the Prime Minister to re-examine the matter and to invite the Bank of Latvia to give its opinion on this overheating issue. For the time being, therefore, I call on you to be careful regarding any new plans for construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U133	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, Mrs Benhen-Beeken, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U134	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that the Commission has been examined and supported. I invite you to do so, too.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U135	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 741/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! On - 62, against -2, refraining from -2. Decision adopted. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Neighbours: “What are you not voting on?” ) On the agenda of the next sitting – draft decision on the Parliament’s approval of the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021” (No. 742/Lm13). On behalf of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Iveta Benhen-Beeken.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U136	The Commission also examined the draft decision ‘On the Parliament’s approval of the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law on the State Budget 2021’ (No. 742/Lm13) at its meeting on 15 September this year, and supported its referral to the Saeima. This draft law provides for reallocation of the appropriations provided for in the Law “On State Budget 2021” from the budget programme of the Rerest Coordination Centre “Ensure of Activities of the Center for the Coordination of Reactors” for the priority measure “Pedagogical Psychological Support Service” to the budget programme of the Ministry of Education and Science “Ensure of Activities of the State Educational Content Centre” in the amount of 75 828 euros in order to ensure the capacity building of the Special Education Department of the State Education Content Centre and the State Pedagogical Medical Commission of the Ministry of Education and Science, to improve its efficiency and availability of services. In the Commission, the draft decision was supported, and I also call on you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U137	Thank you. Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021”” (No. 742/Lm13)! Please vote mode! Please get the result! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. The next item of the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima - Examination of own motions. The draft decision “On the way forward of the 14 725 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the abolition of the tax reform of 2021””. On behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications - Member Janina Jalinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U138	Dear President, Hello, colleagues! On 9 August 2021, the Saeima received a collective application from 14 725 Latvian citizens on the abolition of the tax reform of 2021, which asked to abolish the changes made this year in tax policy regarding patent fees, minimum social contributions, royalties recipients, as well as regarding the tax regime of micro-enterprises. On 8 September this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application reviewed the application and heard representatives of the initiative applicants who pointed out that the implementation of changes in tax policy did not take into account the specifics of the work of the cultural and art sector, that is, seasonal work, project work, unpredictable income, as well as the unpredicted work schedule. The representatives also stressed that the time of the crisis caused by the Covid-19 is not the right time for reform. The additional tax burden imposed, in the view of the applicants' representatives, does not achieve the objective of the law, which is human social security, and in their view will lead to a crisis in cultural and other sectors. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the initiative is not to be supported, because a third of Latvian taxpayers do not make social contributions. The Ministry of Finance informed that there is also a requirement to pay minimum social contributions in Estonia and Lithuania, but these minimum social contributions are not the solution either, as the minimum social contributions provide only a slightly higher pension than the national minimum. The Ministry of Finance explained that all professions would have to pay the same tax rate on their income. Disproportion in the long term should not be maintained, as all working citizens must participate in the maintenance of the national social system. The Ministry of Finance informed that a working group had been set up to assess the impact of changes in tax policy. And if necessary, the Ministry of Finance will prepare proposals for amendments to regulatory enactments. The Commission unanimously decided to refer this Latvian citizens’ initiative to the Saeima’s Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission for further evaluation and prepared the Saeima’s draft decision on the further progress of the 14 725 Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the abolition of the tax reform of 2021”. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U139	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On the way forward of the 14 725th Latvian citizens’ collective application “On the abolition of the tax reform of 2021””! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. Dear Members, Honourable Members! It is time for the next break at the sitting. Only presence registration. Please register. So the name of the member of the Saeima Secretary, Inese Voika, to read the results of the registration as soon as they are collected. There is also a statement while we collect the results of the registration. Member Evita Zālīte-Grosa has submitted a request. Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U140	Thank you. I ask the group of Members to see the patients in oncology for a little while in the Yellow Hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U141	Thank you. The name of the member of the Secretary of the Saeima, Inese Voika, to communicate the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U142	Colleagues! Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dūklavs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Armands Krauze, Ainars Latkovskis, Atis Lejiņš. A. Leiiņš: “I am here!” )... Atis Lejiņš - yes, Vladimir Nikonovs, Juris Rancāns, Inguna Rībena and Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U143	Thank you. So the break is till 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U144	Dear colleagues, Dear colleagues, It's 11 a.m. Let us go back to the agenda for the meeting of the Saeima on 16 September. Please, take the seats. On the agenda, under the heading ‘Conclusion of the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust’. On the agenda - draft decision “On approval of Aiga Mieriņa as a judge of district (city) court”. On behalf of the Legal Commission, Mr Valery Agešin, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U145	Dear President, Dear colleagues, At the meeting of the Legal Commission on 7 September this year, the draft decision ‘On the approval of Aiga Mieriņa as a judge of a district (city) court’ was considered. The members of the Commission unanimously supported the draft decision. On behalf of the Saeima Legal Commission, I call on Aiga Mieriņš to approve the judge of district (city) court without any limitation of his term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U146	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision on the approval of Aiga Peaceiņa as a district (city) court judge! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 65, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Decision adopted. The next item is the draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavluts, tabled by Members Edgars Tavars, Uldis Augulis, Armands Krauze, Janīna Jalinska, Didzis Šmits, Jānis Vucāns, Gundars Dauge, Viktors Valainis, Jānis Dūklavs, Raimonds Bergmanis and Maris Kučinskis. Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U147	Dear President, Dear colleagues, First of all, I would like to thank those Members and also the initiators of the Party's Unity, our fellow Members who have called for this matter to be dealt with when the Minister can come here to have a full debate and fair answers. Unfortunately, however, we will look at this issue without the presence of the Minister. Why is this issue on the agenda today? Why did we submit it? We each had our real motivation, our argument that the Minister of Health, Daniel Pavlut, could no longer fulfil his duties as Minister of Health. Eight months have passed since Daniels Pavluts, with the vote of 61 Members of the Saeima, became the Minister of Health. We remember this call by the Minister and Prime Minister and a clear commitment to increase the number of people who are willing to protect their health on a voluntary basis in order to unite society rather than divide it, so that we can all successfully exit this Covid-19 crisis together, just as the more developed European countries, especially the Nordic countries, are doing. But what do we see? We see that Latvia is still in the last place, in fact with the lowest vaccination coverage. We hear on a regular basis about this chaos that happened and is still happening in relation to masks, especially for young children, mask wearing conditions in classes... that there are children who have to carry masks from call to call, and there are children who do not have to carry these masks. There are many different arguments. We hear these examples of the subcontractor chosen by the Ministry of Health, who organised child testing. For example, my child received a test on the 12th day (the answer) that he passed on... which we gave up on 29 August, and there are many examples of this. Parents are in absolute uncertainty about what happened during this period. Many were forced to organize... and also organised tests on his own resources to enable him to attend classes of interests, meetings and other subjects. On the other hand, in the case of more than a hundred young minors, children's vaccines that they received vaccines that they were not allowed to receive - prohibited vaccines... which appeared in the media from journalists, portals report this, but the health minister is silent, he is silent for an hour, he is silent for two hours, he is silent for a day, he has in fact still not explained what that means. We got institutional news - yes, we're seeing these kids, one of the complications. Are you serious? The child receives a vaccine that does not fit him. Is that right? The Ministry shall remain silent. At the same time, we often hear from the radio - if there's a sausage in the store that has the wrong composition, what substance E is too much, it's released at the moment: the manufacturer, the portion, the shops where it was... it was possible to buy; this product is taken out, and people are being told, but with vaccines - to give the forbidden vaccine to a small child... but from the Minister of Health is silence, there is silence from all “Development/About!” fractions. Individual institutions report, but at the same time do not say where, what, what, how. Why did that happen where there was a public statement by doctors that we were investigating this case, we find out we were following, it was there, there, there? Many want to know. Even for us - for the opposition - a number of people have called, who were ready to make a voluntary, trust-- but had preserved some salt... Trusting the government, they had taken their children to vaccination so that they could normally live so that they could go to school with free breathing. They do not know what vaccine their children have received, what will happen to their children. There are a lot of questions. Haos, systematic chaos, decision-making. One by one is making decisions that divide the company even more. Why are many people not vaccinated? I think you know well why many are not vaccinated. What we have been talking about here a lot of times - because we don't believe it. Do not believe - do not believe in government, do not believe in politicians, do not believe in the Minister for Health. The solutions offered are systematically agile and false... which are changed. Vaccination - it will be voluntary, then it will be mandatory, then it will be voluntary, now, no, but perhaps again it will be mandatory. How Can You Trust People? Where is this cooperation? I actually have a chronological list of all these decisions that come from the Ministry of Health, from the government... with Daniel Pavilut's decisions at the forefront. I have no point in reading them here at the moment, because the Minister is not here. And in the end, I'm not just talking about this either, because we've all made a mistake. I remember in particular when the Union of Greens/Farmers also led the Ministry of Health. We had an outstanding minister, I thought we had an outstanding minister. ( The transcripts are: “Belēvičs? ” ) We had a minister who had completed one of the best universities, universities, Moscow's medicine... who's finished... studied pharmacy, studied in Germany. It's an outstanding personality. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. E. Zālīte–Gross: “Who is it?” ) He was wrong too. Guntis Belevičs. He was wrong. He made a mistake. It was an incomparably smaller and humane mistake. He deceived the public, and he deceived his colleagues. What did it end with? We convened a press conference, and the minister himself resigned from his office. The Minister resigned from office in his party. The Minister appointed the Saeima Member. The Minister left politics. And to me as party leader... I've got that... I thought it was not enough. Have we undermined public confidence in government, power? But what is happening now, colleagues, is not human error. These are professional mistakes that occur in each other - repeatedly and systematically. With these decisions that divide society rather than unite, we have achieved that people do not listen... not listening, but not believing. They will never make any other decision unless they listen to people. People who have systematically demonstrated by their actions that they speak wrong, that they deceive the public that they lie, can tell absolute justice at 101th time, but just like the saying “Wolf in the sheep!” People don't believe it anymore. ( Interface: “It’s just like you! ” ) People no longer believe that. I understand that this speech is not about Development/About! . I understand that this speech may not be devoted to the Unity either. It's all foreign to them. I look forward to the voices of reason from the National Alliance. Together, we must make sure that society starts listening. And then we will probably get the public to listen if there is a new minister who will honestly tell you all the benefits and all the minuses of vaccination, who will honestly tell us what side-effects each vaccine can have, and that he also does not know what it can mean in the long term. We have heard many interviews from people who are officially responsible for vaccination in the country. A year ago, they said that no vaccine could be approved more quickly than within five years. They have changed their opinion in a short time: “No... “ But people see it. Therefore, it is fair to say what it means for people, not to continue to divide society even more. In this way, we will not end up with the crisis, we will not unite society in this way. We will split it even further. Let's split society even more. Colleagues! To conclude, we must all do our best together to listen to the politicians; to get the public first to listen. And if there's a young minister, a professional who will honestly tell Latvian society what he knows and what he doesn't know, what we have the answer today and what we don't have, people will understand it. People will understand that. In the first wave, in the first wave of the pandemic, everyone was sitting at home. Many said, “Keep at home, hold on to two meters!” , because the government did not have a response. People saw it, and they understood it. We see people in European countries understand. In Denmark one vaccine is withdrawn because people have lost their confidence in the vaccine. They understand that, they see that people are acting. And the result is that it is one of the countries where the coverage of voluntary vaccination is the highest. And there are in fact no such illogical restrictions (Dep. S. Riekstin’s intermediate call sign.) and segregations, as it is now with us. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “In Denmark, there is no commission from prison!” ) Colleagues! Continuing in the same way as it is, we'll get to a lot, a lot... at a disproportionately greater problem in our society. This will end with fragmentation, psychological injuries and ultimately with morbidity and overcrowded hospitals, our students may return to e-class. Do we want that? We don't want to! We don't want any such clowns... What we've had. We all want to... I think that all of us here want to live a normal life in our heart and understand that this is a problem that needs to be dealt with together. But to solve this problem, people need to believe in the state. And we can't divide people -- this one or this one. I also had a conversation with my family who told me that in 1949, those who were not ready to go to college were sent to Siberia. People remember that. And now it's similar. Many who may not believe - at least for now do not believe - vaccines or have decided to wait some time - are now hearing: if you have not vaccinated, you will not be able to drive in public transport, you will not be able to go to the store to buy bread and milk, as we are told on TV to Development/About! A politician with a light smile. And what do we expect of these people: that they will now voluntarily come and receive this protection? No, the result will be that we expect exactly the opposite action, as is currently the case. It'll get worse. Therefore, colleagues, the replacement of the Minister for Health at this point and, in fact, the change of government course is the solution for people to start listening first. And if there are honest answers and honest explanations, then there is hope that people will listen. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U148	The name is Mr. Wallary Ageshin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U149	Dear President, Dear colleagues, Each minister and politically responsible to the Saeima. And in order for the Minister to be able to perform his duties, the Saeima's trust is required. The analysis of the work of the Minister for Health raises a number of issues. When will the industries in Latvia be managed by professionals? Where and what has Mr Pavļuta achieved precisely in the medical sector so that he can be considered to be eligible for ministerial post? I believe that it would be right to support a competent person who has a sense of mind, who is a medicine and how to manage the sector. Unfortunately, 13. This does not happen in the family. The sermon, when it was necessary to abandon the principle of political inserts and confirm a professional knowledge, was not used again. However, thanks to the community, the people of Latvia have been able to see clearly how deep the civil service is in crisis. I would like to remind you that the Parliamentary Investigation Commission evaluates the errors made during the Covid-19 pandemic, the lack of planning and the unimaginable scandal with the failure to deliver the vaccine. Attention is paid to the shopping procedure, how the vaccines were ordered, who decided and in what amount to buy one or the other vaccine, which was directly proposed to lay down the basis for the vaccination plan. However, it is already clear that there is still a complex approach to dealing with crisis situations. Crisis Management - it's still a real problem... still. Vaccination is also not good. The rate of vaccination is steady. Advertising, which seems rather comical, does not produce the desired result. This ad just doesn't work. A clear and targeted strategy is needed to address such crises in the future. Regulatory regulation at the level of regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers must be easy to understand for every citizen of Latvia. Such regulation must be ready for the next crisis. I believe that a family doctor's cunfte, rather than an advertising agency or a vaccination office, would be the best way to sort out vaccination. In the spring I asked the Minister to think sensibly about doctors and sisters. Family doctors know their patients best, they know the health features of each individual, or they can even graft a particular person. What is happening in the government, in my opinion, has nothing to do with the care of the health of Latvian citizens. If all sectoral ministers were to have adequate education and the restrictions were more reasonable if there were less controversial declarations, half-truths and empty promises on the part of representatives of the power parties, then the vaccination would go more smoothly. The restrictions announced by the pandemic have become darker for many people, just like creating an atmosphere of fear. That is why the people also have that attitude towards this government. Citizens' confidence in the government and the Minister for Health is currently at a critically low level, which threatens the successful fight against the spread of the virus. To support what responsibility is to assume. Ministers, who, despite their lack of knowledge, continue to fulfil their responsibilities, cannot take responsibility. We do not want to show solidarity with the chaotic activities of the Ministry of Health. At the same time, I can assure you that the opinion of the treaty is national and we support those draft laws that address vital challenges in our country in times of crisis. I call on you to vote in favour of distrusting the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U150	The name of the Member, Mr. Miccherevski. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “Mama, close your ears!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U151	Hello, colleagues! I understand that there's such a tradition here - to spend all the speaking time. (Laughter) As a new Member, I will probably not be able to do so yet, but I would also like to make a brief statement on this question of the Minister's resignation. For the first time in my parliamentary mandate, one of the reasons why I refused was... precisely so that Mr Pavlut can become a Minister of Health without stress, so that he should not combine work with the work of a Member of the Saeima. I wish him well, and I really hoped that Daniel would do better than Ilze. And he probably did better, at least I think so. But my mother used to be a kid... She's sitting here right now... she's always... When I came out of school and said that I was better than other schoolmates, she always said that I should never be compared with others. I think now, too... It is already long enough that Daniels Pavļuts' work should not be compared more with previous work, especially with the work done by Ilze Viņķele. Daniel Pavlut, in his ministerial position, announced that the most important thing for him in this position would be the fight against the pandemic and that the main task would be to speed up vaccination against Covid-19 and improve the vaccination plan, and above all communication in the fight for citizens' trust and in the fight against disinformation. Mr. Pavilut also said... I will even quote: “To be honest, I feel like I’m going to war. There is a terrible situation in the country, people die, we are at the worst point of the pandemic so far." What has changed? We are back at the worst point. How has vaccination been successful? I looked at it yesterday: after vaccination, we are between the Balkan countries and Morocco. Hospitals are starting to be filled with severely ill people, slowly ending schooling, and probably a new period of limitations will begin again soon. How has communication with the public been successful? At least I don't think so. Those who do not want to be vaccinated still do not intend to do so, the anti-vaccination propaganda is louder than ever before, and it does not seem to be subject to it in the near future. In the talk about the division of society into two groups, even the Holocaust is called here by some. But do vaccinees have any enormous advantages? Unvaccinated travels abroad, visits supermarkets, balls, and even speaks of folly from the parliamentary tribunal. It seems to me that no public trust has been achieved and the vaccinees have been put on, to be rude, because they can prepare with the unvaccinated for the autumn and winter home together with their children, because it is likely that it will be necessary to decide on the closure of schools in the near future. In my opinion, there is no need for a long talk; we all see that the result has not been achieved. If we like to value people in Latvia about trying, we like... I also like Daniel Pavlut, I congratulate him on the birth of twins, and that is very cool, and he really, I think, has tried, but, as he said himself, the situation is like a war, and if the war fails, then it is normal for the generals to change. Already in October or November, once again, in this war against the pandemic, there will be hundreds and perhaps even thousands who will have to take responsibility - the government, the Prime Minister and probably all of us, because again... Nothing is and will not be done. It also seems that all of the failures have occurred on their own. There's no blame. It may be that there are antivacers or people at fault, but that's the feeling... I think it is difficult to achieve even worse results in terms of vaccination when it comes to the European Union. Many fear (I have also heard today) that if we release Daniel Pavilut, then the government will fall; that it will be worse - there will be instability, chaos. But it will not. Its fears are sown by the organization “Latvia’s Development” and it is important for them to maintain the existing influence within the party association. The government will not fall. If we try to decipher Arthur Thomas Plēks from VARAM today, then - yes, then it may be that the government is going to fall, but, replacing the Minister for Health, nothing bad will happen, there will be no collapse, no chaos, no antivacs... I don't know who's sitting here today, probably not even the same strongest... will not become a Minister for Health in his place. From the same group on Development/Par! Mr Dūrišs or Andris Skride could become a minister. And I believe they could get better. That is why I am once again calling for a 'yes' to be voted in favour of the resignation of the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U152	We are continuing the debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U153	Dear colleagues, Daniel Pavlut is the best minister, he is the best minister in Mr. Kariņš's state, because only such a good minister, who is such a good performer of tasks... and who have worked well with their conscience, which is no longer there, can comply with these rules and can really become the best spying minister in the history of Latvia, because he does not know anything else, knows only how to talk about segregation and vaccination, and the vaccination coverage, seeing us all as a flock that needs to be dissipated as much as possible, and forgetting all the other tasks that the health minister should essentially deal with. We have heard a lot of criticisms: then what do you, politicians, have in it, do not understand anything from its health care, do better talk about politics. But at a time when suddenly everyone has become so political, when health professionals, who are now caught up as hot pies to express their opinions, start talking about the restriction of human rights, the fact that people have to be divided and start making politics by puppets of propaganda, then politicians still have to get up, state-owned and state-owned people to say: stop! Because this is no longer a story about health care, this is a story about politics. And doctors are now forced to engage in politics because they are misled, and they are misled by politicians like you, Development/About! saying that this is the right way to go for doctors. And it is very sad to see respectable doctors who really respond to this call by the propaganda troupe to express their harsh, condemning view of those people who choose to make decisions about their own health. Therefore, unfortunately, instead of talking about demographics, instead of talking about new jobs (not new jobs in vaccination centres, but new jobs with which Latvia could become a priority and fight for leadership in many other areas, not just in vaccinating people!) Instead, we have to study the number of drug-related deaths, look at how young people have been misvaccinated, how unclear tests have been certified in educational institutions, which are now... schools are crowded with substances of unknown origin. Instead, we really have to deal with this agenda that Daniel Pavlut and the company have always offered us. Daniel Pavlut is indeed the best minister in the Kariņš Group and, of course, today's Members who stand firmly for Kariņš' government will not allow Daniel Pavlut to be thrown down. I would like to say that he is indeed a very useful minister, given that he understands another very, very important thing, which is very important for Karina's government. It's lying. It's lying really without a conscience, and no one else knows it as well as Daniel Pavilut. Nobody else knows - to tell the public and the Members of the Saeima at the beginning of this year that we are not a totalitarian state and will by no means be moving towards compulsory vaccination and, without a blinking eye, to continue to tell us that vaccination is voluntary and completely without conscience... accept any information... that he had lied at the beginning of the year... pretend as if that story isn't about him. Only Daniels Pavluts could, without blinking his eye, tell him that students will not in any way be denied the opportunity to learn regardless of how they choose to protect their health - either by vaccination or by not vaccinating. It was Daniel Pavilut. He really lied very boldly, looking at all the Members of the Saeima and the public. And now too... Do you think that he has one of the slightest accusations of conscience that his words are not true? No, no! He's very useful to Karin. Daniel Pavlut knows very well to avoid questions, unpleasant questions, and he knows how to be very good. And here too... Today we received answers to Members' questions about teen vaccination, about these inappropriate vaccines. We know that this information on the administration of non-compliant vaccines to adolescents has already been available to healthcare professionals on 31 May this year. When we asked the question, when the real Minister for Health learned about this fact, we received a general answer that if we learned about this fact, we must do it and do it. No date, no letters, no resolutions. Do you think Daniel Pavilut is trying to hide his responsibility? Yes, he's trying to do this because we know that in May fewer than a hundred adolescents who were vaccinated with non-compliant vaccines were reported, but in this reply letter already... there are more than two hundred such teenagers. This means that infringements continued and continued despite the fact that this information was widely known to both healthcare professionals and control authorities. Daniel Pavilut tries to avoid responsibility, but we will call him accountable. And it's okay that we won't succeed in sending Daniel Pavilut home today, he won't escape his responsibility. Daniel Pavilut has spent and plans to spend... including more than half a million budgetary resources for the payment of the vaccine and vaccination campaigns. I think that Daniel Pavilut also understands such things. We are talking about getting money, we are talking about attracting various interesting advertising agencies to the vaccination campaign. I think that in general, Daniel Pavlut is the best minister that the government of Karin can want. Therefore, Daniel Pavilut will certainly remain in office today. But Daniel Pavlut will answer for all the violations he committed in his office! We will not allow Daniel Pavly to escape his responsibility. I call on those colleagues who really understand that Daniel Paviluts is a completely inadequate minister to vote against today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U154	The name is Digit Schmidt. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Stepanenko: Against Daniel Pavilut! ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U155	Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! As I have co-signed this request for resignation, I regard it as my logical duty to come here and explain my signature on this document. 13 March 2020 - Saeima sitting in this Chamber... It was a time I have mentioned as a time when we were at least seemingly united here for some time, with a common sense that together we must overcome this crisis - not only for us, but together with the public - because without public confidence it will be very difficult or impossible to do so. I then, on 13 March, called on this troupe not to make one mistake. A mistake that is very likely to be made, because the temptation to do so will be. That is, the mistake that I called for in no way to do - not to tell, hide, lie, manipulate something in this process. Because in the end it will not be possible to hide anything, all this will come to light and only destroy public trust. In fact, at that point, there was quite a high level of public confidence both in the government and, I think, also in our fellow Members. Unfortunately, you didn't listen. You have done everything on the contrary (in your words, I am talking about the government) - you have hidden the information that you thought to be hidden, you have manipulated, you have lied. I'm sorry. And the result is that we have a divided society, we are one of the countries with the lowest vaccination coverage, although the vaccine is enough for us, and, as you all probably have seen in the last measurement of the Eurobarometer, our country is the lowest one - the lowest of all the countries of the European Union! - confidence in the government in overcoming this process, the co-process. It's not like that, it's just bad news. Its bad news continues, because without trust we cannot make rapid progress. It is simply to lose confidence, but it is very, very difficult to restore. And this last case... There was also, I understand, an incentive for the Group of the Greens/Farmers Union, as you say, to write this request about the facts, about already... Well, I won't say to the people... inhumane errors in the vaccination of children. This is another shouting example. At the time when the first or first cases of misunderstanding, lack of awareness of age or any other reason were given inadequate vaccines - at that time the only medicine to deal with this situation was openness - to explain everything openly, publicly. I would understand that; there would, of course, be some negation, but the positive effect would be much greater. And, after all, if we wanted to protect young people from getting the wrong pot, it was the only way, because at the time when the young man, with his parents' consent, goes to the health institution to get the pot, he of course fully trusts that everyone knows everything there. If this information had been made public in good time, of course both parents, young people and doctors three times make sure that the young man, the next potter, receives the right pot. This silence has contributed not to the misappropriation of five or ten young people, but, as Julia Stepanenko said, more than two hundred young people. These are concrete consequences. This is one consequence. And the other effect (I do not want to say it is less important, it is just as important!) is that this silence and lying have caused a huge blow to the vaccination process as a whole, another major blow. And that seems to me to be inconceivable at all, that until this day the Minister of Health has not explained it. He has not come here today to explain how this could have happened and to make sure that it has now been removed and that it can no longer be repeated. I will not talk much more, but I will talk about political responsibility. Daniel Pavilut sees the political responsibility. He has already demonstrated it once in his political career eight years ago - after murder in Zolitude. I say that Zolitude's tragedy was murder, because although it was without a prior intention, it does not change the fact that it was murder. Daniel Pavlut was responsible for maintaining his position. He distributed such a sin letter, in which I think two of the most important things were the following. One is the straightening of the building already being built before he became a minister; it's nothing that he was responsible for security... that his Ministry was responsible for monitoring construction safety - he found the excuse that the building had already been built. And as another excuse he said he couldn't... I will now quote roughly: you have not been able to stand up to the construction lobby to strengthen these safety standards. There's going to be something like that, after a while. Daniel Pavlut will say that Ilze Viņķele didn't buy the vaccine at all, he only came after that. Now the lobby will probably have... many lobbyists... will be able to explain who is unable to resist. Nothing new. And I don't expect anything here from Daniel Pavilut, he's already proven everything in his life. I also expect nothing special from the Development/Par! Group. . You have recently made it very clear what you are doing, as you say, to a person who is sticking through his hands and then lying brutally - you are entering him as a group leader who continues to represent you in the Saeima as a community. That is clear. I am not even condemning it now; it is simply a fact. I could turn to Unity. Remember what resulted in the murder of Zolitus and Daniel Pavlut's unique way of taking responsibility? This resulted in the President having your Prime Minister go, your star in the sky - Valdis Dombrovskis (with the whole office). I understand that you can now be comforted by the fact that this President will not do that, but actually, if he did, he would save you, because after that you are still in politics - not only in politics, but in government (not with Dombrovskis, but with Karina). At a time when it is not the President, but the constituents, you will no longer have a return journey. By guarding today Pavilut, you are pushing yourself on the rock, because no one else is responsible except your Prime Minister above it. I'm calling... I recommend that you go to the private field, as you say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U156	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U157	Hello, colleagues! I believe that Mr Pavluta should have resigned immediately - on the same day that information was finally made public that more than a hundred adolescents were vaccinated with a vaccine that was not authorised in the European Union at the time. The fact that he has not resigned shows that a person has no conscience and no desire to preserve his political face. I informed you that a week ago I had submitted an application to the Prosecutor General requesting to assess whether these activities, when vaccinating minor children with an unauthorised vaccine, saw violations of Latvian law. I hope that the Prosecutor-General will carefully evaluate my application and respond. And then we can ask ourselves, ‘ Is it really possible that our law does not contain provisions that would make those who act irresponsibly to be held accountable? ’ Yes, the minister is right that, behold, they are following the health situation of these children and that nothing terrible has happened, but, you know, people who say it was probably an experiment are partly right because... isn't it an experiment to hide that kind of information from the public and watch these children do? In addition, it should be noted that among those adolescents (and not informed by the Minister) there were also those who went to vaccination without parental authorisation, because, here, the Patient Law allows the child to walk alone after 14 years of age, to answer the question himself whether he is allergic to anything or has chronic diseases. No one checks anything, and no one checks it because... That is the second point on which I would really ask for the Pavlut's demission... that throughout this period, although still a year ago the opposition called for the involvement of family doctors in the vaccination process, nothing happened. Even last Tuesday, the government had to announce a plan that family doctors will be involved in vaccination, because we have a terrible situation with the vaccination of seniors. Nothing has happened because you can't agree with your family doctors. Does this not mean that the Minister is powerless to deal with his own industry? The Minister cannot agree with family doctors. Another point is the third point on which I would ask for the Pavlut's resignation. The fact that information is defaulted is that two important things have been introduced here in Lithuania since August 16, which would be very useful in Latvia as well. First of all, the so-called 'opportunity passport'. That is what I am talking about: we do not need to say that there is, here in the European Union, an interoperable certificate... some common example. Here Lithuanians took and created an internal document - an opportunity passport - that gives people both the opportunity to provide services on the spot and travel. It was also defaulted that what you voted against today was for recognition... that people with blood tests showing antibodies... In Lithuania, such people are likened to overloaders. I don't know why in Lithuania, the person who has overloaded is given the opportunity to... receives an interoperable certificate... not 180 days, as Mr. Tatar speaks in all the discussions, but 210 days. Do Lithuanians have any other results of international research? And don't know why Lithuanians have recognised antibodies as the basis for issuing this certificate, this possibility passport, and this certificate, if there are antibodies, works for 60 days. Why do we hear about it for the first time? Why is nothing done, even though the Baltic States are our closest parties in the fight against the community? More. You can say that it is a trifle, I strongly believe that it is not. I tried three days to call the phone from which I had to receive a reply for Covid-19. Not the phone where I can sign up for vaccination, but where I can ask a question to answer. Three days! Last time I thought: well, how many minutes will it take me? Fifteen. Fifteen! And without understanding whether I've been given an answer or not... You could try, for example, to look at the European Health Insurance Card and call it, but at least tell you that you are in the seventh row, then you are the sixth, fifth and so on. And then I have... I mean, well, it's worth it, I'll wait. There's only three people left, well... I'll be on my hearing right away. There is no even such possibility here. Well, dear, this is the most important thing that could be currently in the country - for people to get answers to their questions. And there is no such possibility! What's going on? And more. I think when... The President spoke about the creation of a particular position of the Minister for State Tasks... In my opinion, it is this item - the Minister for Health - that is currently the primary item in the country. I believe that Mr Pavļuta must resign and Mr Kariņš, as Prime Minister, must assume the leadership of this ministry, because he cannot sit all the time behind the back of the Minister for Health and say, and point out that, here he is a guilty person. The guilty is the Prime Minister because, first of all, he does not properly appreciate the poor work of the Minister for Health. Secondly, he cannot do so that the former Minister for Health, Mrs. Čakša, does not lie on television yesterday about the fact that, behold, the beauty industry has agreed... And how cool it all works... and that we must do so also with other sectors through the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's not like that! An association which seems to agree shall represent a minimal section of this sector. I understand you had the task of saying something positive. There's nothing positive. It's got to get out of here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U158	The name to Member Karin Scratch. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. A. Zakaitistov: “How much watch?” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U159	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! President of the Saeima! I'd like to start my speech with that... about November 2020, when Juris Pūce was wrong about the issue of parking in Riga municipality. ‘ I have made a very unsuccessful choice, I have deceived my colleagues and the Latvian society.” And at that moment Juris Pūce derisioned. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European During the press conference on the vaccination plan, Viņķele stressed that it is based on decisions of specialists who actively follow the course. In her opinion, not trusting experts during the health crisis, politicians starting to question professional issues such as the effectiveness of vaccines, is the way to an even deeper crisis. She also pointed out that the vaccination plan had already been in place and had been updated before being submitted to the government, as a delay in the registration of the ‘Modernisation’ vaccine was recently announced. Viņķele pointed out the Prime Minister's inability to do what he said earlier - to act promptly. And Ilze Viņķelė was going to derision. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 117 young people aged 12-17 years have been vaccinated with Johnson & Johnson and 26 vaccinations with AstraZeneca, i.e. vaccines that are not authorised for use against Covid-19 in children and young people. The Covid-19 non-elderly vaccine has been used in most cases in almost adult adolescents. In addition, a test of its use by young people was confirmed shortly after it was carried out... against Covid-19 non-age-compatible vaccines... concluded by the Health Inspectorate. I'm sorry, but when children are sold alcohol or tobacco products, what kind of seller has been excused for having been almost adulthood? Was a marriage of almost adult adolescents registered in some section of the family register? What is it about formulation and justification that children were already almost adulthood?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm sorry, it's medical manipulations, it's our children. Are we really ready to close our eyes? Where are our national values? Will no one really bear any legal or political responsibility for this? Article 138 of the Criminal Law lays down liability - for the improper performance of professional duties of a medical person is provided for both a penalty with deprivation of liberty for a period of time, as well as forced labour and fines. When will we be responsible to the Minister? ‘ I very much hope that nothing bad will happen to these young people,” Juris Pūce said. Yuri, I think that with Daniel Pavilut, nothing will be wrong if he resigns today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U160	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U161	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! I would like to start by providing more recent information on what has been said in many speeches by many speakers on this issue, namely on this vaccination... and on this vaccination error for young people, and then address the request of the Minister for the Demission. It has to be said that these conclusions, which also... and in fact nothing is hidden, the Health Inspectorate has carried out an inspection, and the conclusions are as follows: inadequate vaccines against Covid-19... more than half of the cases in young people have been vaccinated with a so-called mRNA vaccine, “Modern”. And this vaccine was actually confirmed immediately after this vaccination event (Dep. R. Lochmele: “Lie! Several months!’ )... vaccinations for young people. The second important fact, in fact, is that this is a short of the opposition that has been pulled out of the pocket to create additional excuses for the request for a ministerial resignation, is that in two thirds of the cases these young people were short before reaching the age of 18. They actually reached this age shortly after vaccination. Another important fact is that one vaccination carried out with AstraZeneca was carried out precisely because the parents of this young person demanded it. So, too, there are cases like this. Of course, we have warned all vaccination service providers. They are warned that they may be severely punished for inadequate vaccination - up to 10 per cent of the amount of previous vaccination. So that's important. I would also like to say that none of these young people... except one of these young people who has had such side effects as fever, no one else... There are no indications that they have any side effects after vaccination. But now for Minister Daniel Pavlut and for this request for resignation. First of all, I would like to say: colleagues, let us remember under what circumstances the Minister started, took on this difficult and responsible work! The health sector has been severely weakened for many years. In fact, we were on the eve of the pandemic outbreak. These were circumstances where vaccination of the population had to be started immediately. And Daniel Pavilut dared and took on these responsibilities. And I believe - and my fellow Members also believe - that up to this day he has done these duties in honour and will continue to do so. And as a basis for what I said, there are some things that I would like to list here. In my opinion, in general, Daniel Pavilot has managed to do much more during this time of crisis than other ministers in the times of peace. If we look at Covid-19 virus prevalence, then compared to other Baltic countries, we see that these mice, which Latvia has had, have not been so fast. And they have managed to limit them by working together. A comprehensive, convenient, vaccination is available for each person. The industry is much more prepared for new outbreaks of the virus... hospitals - both university hospitals and regional hospitals. Work on a number of important issues, such as the new medical salary model, the plan - the new plan - to treat cancer patients, the work on a new... digital health... development, mental health plan, hospital glue. And here could also be called many other activities, which, despite this difficult pandemic situation, the Minister of Health continues to direct. In the crisis, we see that there are many weaknesses in the healthcare system, the prevention of which was not taken care of by those in need when they led the Ministry of Health and when there was no pandemic. Only in the crisis have these... These giants... in fact holes and absence from the health care system. Of course, this is the case: each crisis highlights the problems, and now these problems need to be dealt with. It is no longer a question, because it is a question of the health and safety of the whole of society. I would also like to say that many, very many decisions have been made in the government to reduce the incidence of co-heavy diseases. Simpler, more understandable security measures. An action plan for further monitoring of the situation has been drawn up in the spring. Work on the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 360 Recycling. School work in person - as long as possible. So these decisions about the green regime, the yellow regime and the red regime, about how to ensure safe services for citizens - they are all on the daily agenda. For vaccination. Vaccination was introduced... and has been introduced essentially as a national-scale project, and with the appropriate... A team of responsible professionals was soon set up the so-called VIVaT system in which data can be obtained... Let us say that the authorities involved in the vaccination process are about people who need vaccination. Vaccination is provided as close as possible to people - supermarkets, fairs; exit vaccinations are taking place. There is also a possibility to go to seniors over 80 years of age and to receive vaccination at home. Now, colleagues, perfect health and life... 796,000 people, or 42 percent of the population (both doses of the vaccine) have been rescued from at least severe Covid-19 disease; 54 percent are... if we count on those people who can vaccinate and do not include children... If we look at various sectors, we see that 91 percent of the doctors have been collected, 74 percent of the clients and employees in social care centres have been collected, 72 percent of the employees in educational establishments. There is a huge amount of work that has been done here and I should like to thank all those involved. It could be said that he could have been acquitted more. Of course, there could have been, and of course we are not at the forefront of these figures if we compare with other countries of the European Union. However, it should also be borne in mind that many initiatives taken by the Ministry of Health were suspended and various activities that could contribute to vaccination were stopped. No agreement was reached between the government and the Saeima. If we are talking, for example, about this obligation to vaccinate doctors, teachers, social workers. By the way, one of the dancers Viktors Valainis – as the Executive Director of the Association of the Great Cities of Latvia – has been directly present to the vaccination process and has seen and is well aware of the extent and intensity of the work it has required and is still demanding for the actors, including municipalities. And it seems that by putting the signature under the demand of the exile, it must have forgotten Mr. Valaiņš - how hard it actually is. More than 800,000 people have been taken away. This is the work done by medical practitioners, the Ministry of Health and the government in general, and the work done by coalition partners. Dear colleagues, the honourable opposition, what is your work? About 800 thousand people who do not want to be vaccinated - this is your work. And I would not like to extend it to the whole opposition, but to the part of the opposition that really acted in a pandemic situation quite destructively. Examples: your performance has been started... Since the onset of the pandemic... with the denial of the Covidvirus - that we do not have a pandemic at all, and that is something that is comparable to a common flu, with countless calls for non-respect and elimination of security measures; then - various pseudo expertises on the effects, safety and harmfulness of vaccines, both... With the participation of Members and as if... as little as possible or as experts... talking to experts about what the virus is, how it affects the body and what vaccines are; an action against masking (mere?) , discrediting the expert opinion; all this has been on your agenda for the last one and a half years. I could call it another, but I have a rhetorical question: is it really (The Hall of Noise. The head of the sitting shall be knocked down by means of a hammer.) is the work of the opposition - to act against public health interests, to promote the anti-vaccination movement and to divide society? Is this really the work of the opposition? I don't think so. Colleagues, we're on the same boat. We are on the same boat - combating a pandemic is in the interest of our entire society, we are living in the same country and in the same world. And we all don't care... Is that so? Do we not really care about getting us out of this pandemic? Free vaccines are provided, available for all residents of Latvia. If we are talking about how many vaccines we have - we have increased the vaccination portfolio to such an extent that we can incite all Latvians and we have enough more doses to revaccinate them. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Tightenings.) To revaccinate them... Again, yeah. So basically, colleagues, I think there's a question here about it... And I guess we're really unique because we're... has succeeded politicians so much in mobilising anti-vacerism, as it is called, and that is the 'profit', and that is the result, and for that... I do not know if thanks to Latvian society and Latvia as a country can be said about this. I would also like to say that (Dep. K. Tightenings.) in general, honourable colleagues, in a pandemic, we... hasn't been anywhere just the last, we've been among the first. For example, we are one of the countries that have first introduced a digital certificate. And in fact, our citizens can use it. We also have record-high-test capacities that we have now launched and a record of 200,000 tests per week and more. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Sprūde: “Golden medal! For testing!’ ) We have prepared the hospital for the new outbreak, and more than EUR 123 million have been invested in the hospitals. In fact, hospitals are much more ready for a pandemic. Medical fees have been increased, for medical persons since 2019 – on average 35 percent. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. K. Tightenings.) So doctors had an average of 512 euros per month. These are the works... These are the works that have been done... and what needs to be done. There's one more thing that came out here... family doctors have been supporting around €50 million this year. So, colleagues, I think that, in this matter, which concerns public health, the safety of all of us, we can be united. I am sure of that. And it's a misunderstood action by the opposition... If we speak and call on the public to become divided and do not call for vaccination, it is a misunderstanding. I think we can be united, we as a country will only gain if we carry out vaccination as soon as possible, increase the vaccination coverage, call everyone... Let us call on citizens to vaccinate, follow epidemiological safety measures and support the Ministry of Health, and support the Minister of Health, Daniel Pavlut. Before we criticise, look in the mirror, look at what I personally have done to make any of the people feel secure and be collected... and I'd like to make some excuses. So that I am calling for this request for resignation not to be supported. Thank you for your attention. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U162	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U163	Hello, fellow Members, again! A little... In response to Ilmar. Well, yes, we've spent a lot of money - 66 million, 86 beds. Very much... Beds... is increased (interim: “It’s silly!” )... For your responsibility. Well, if Ilmārs says that none of the young people have already suffered or should take responsibility, then that's how - then also the drinker who drives a drink and does not cause an accident can no longer be punished. Well, it's still... we need to assess when we have to take responsibility and when we do not. And when it comes to government, about our Minister for Health - nowhere is that government... It won't fall, but we have enough deserters, coverrs. That's the government right here. I call on you to support the Minister's resignation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U164	Name to Member Viktor Valain. I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I Depp. Bondars: ‘... From the page! Speak from the heart!” ) Council Regulation (EC) No 1257/96 of 20 June 1996 concerning humanitarian aid (OJ L 163, 2.7.1996, p. 1).
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U165	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, The Prime Minister's debut - this is a very serious issue. And I would also call on everyone to take it very seriously. Just this week, the European Parliament... Addressing Urzula von der Leien, an EU-wide average of 70 percent of the population has been vaccinated. There are countries where more than 80 percent of the population have been vaccinated. There are countries where really very positive... take decisions on the removal of all types of restrictions. It's going back to normal. If we look at what is happening in Latvia, Latvia does it as Minister Pavļuts does. As the Latvian Government has done. As soon as the parliamentary secretary, Mr Dūrišs, related these figures, which... However, there are 42 percent of the total Latvian population, who are adults... are currently vaccinated. ( Independence: “54! ” ) This leads us in circumstances where we now have and will inevitably have to talk about current restrictions. On this holiday, journalists had calculated... Colleagues, I am calling for a real focus on this number. If mathematical calculations are correct, a further 1,000 people will die of this disease in Latvia in the near future. A thousand people will die because we have failed to fulfil the plan that the government itself has already imposed on itself in February. The new minister... under the leadership of a new minister... he began to work with a full mandate and drafted a plan, which he himself called in various modern words: flexible and suitable for all challenges; 70 percent of vaccinees - by the end of summer. Financial resources. Did anyone deny Daniel Pavel any financial resources? Established vaccination offices. Formed promotional campaigns. Did those advertising campaigns work? Obviously it didn't work. These were very large amounts invested in them. Who is responsible for this? Is this to be blamed for those people who have not left for vaccination, or for government strategies and policies that have not achieved the desired goal? If we look from the point of view of management... objective facts. We look at how our healthcare system sees this, as our hospitals see it. Hospitals, which are already under stress with these issues, hospitals with premiums... make government decisions on July at the end of July, so that people do not know how to calculate wages. Employees, doctors, their assistants - everything collective feels that from the administration of the Ministry... there is no really convincing action. It can be said that, whether the Ministry of Finance is responsible for it or something else, in the end, they are doctors for whom salaries are not calculated on time. It is not that there are many hospitals in Latvia that hold some money on their accounts and that could plan something in advance. There is a very rare number of such hospitals. Most hospitals wait and live from month to month - waiting for this money. And it is important that they have confidence in it. If we are talking about people's lives in the regions, then, colleagues, we must say that in the regions the situation is very sad. Imagine a collective of the regional hospitals. And here we can see the figures. And they look and sound pretty good. If we look at the overall contribution to the health of people in Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme, it looks good. If we look at the EUR 6.2 million invested in Vidzeme Hospital, colleagues look good - EUR 6.2 million invested in Vidzeme Hospital in recent years. Do you think that a cowfly is the only disease? Perhaps there are other diseases that people need to treat. And that's why, of course... We can see that EUR 3.9 million has been invested in Rezekne Hospital in recent years. Decisions have been taken for an investment of EUR 3.9 million. Colleagues, those numbers look big, those numbers... Sounds like it should be enough. But, in contrast... If we look... Both regional and Riga residents deserve healthcare. However, for the regional population, 16 per cent of the total funding is invested - 16 per cent! - while in Riga and Pierīga region invests 250 million in health infrastructure. These are decisions taken by the government. And what plans did Mr. Durish just talk about? The level of hospitals, something else. What a levelling! The head of the Latvian Hospital Society just recently replied... and I really thank the Daugavpils Hospital team from my heart. They were among the most industrious patients. Overall, its proportion was divided - Riga versus the rest of Latvia - in half, but... Instead of thinking where should then improve their infrastructure, where should then invest money in those beds, and where should then put together... in order to really have all the oxygen equipment, the proportion of the system to work everything is as follows: 84 percent - in Riga and Pierīga region, 14 percent - in regions. 84 percent versus 14 percent! Colleagues, in my opinion, this proportion is immoral, simply immoral! And here the story is not just about the community, it's not just about the community, it's about the demand for the commission. It's about attitude. Mr. Durish asked what we had done. Yeah, we tried. We are also working in regions, and we are also managing regional municipalities. Colleagues, when it was a challenge to build large centres, it was the people of the regions who formed them, and it was the people of the regions who took steps. And you talk about mutual relations, about trust in the government, about trust in the ministers and local authorities, about regional hospitals. Unfortunately, the situation is that the EUR 10 000 remained unpaid for those people who were leaders in this area who showed everyone how they should. For those of you who did all the very first, they grafted themselves, best designed the whole system - they have not even been paid today! They tell me: well, we're gonna swallow that copy -- 10,000 -- well, we're gonna do something, but that's a story of attitude. It's a story about attitude! When they come to help, they come to help. It's a story about attitude. Who was in Liepaja? There, people just didn't understand what was happening. This attitude, like that of the government... as long as I understand... People wanted to help when they needed to help. And we can see the result. The result is that we see these percentages as we have today. These percentages are as they are. We study what people say. Colleagues, one is about hospitals, one is about these large vaccination centres. The next thing is about family doctors. Much is said about it. Colleagues, have you talked to family doctors, rural family doctors and urban family doctors with two thousand patients in practice - to doctors who are not only five patients a day, but ten patients a day? They are told: vaccinate now! And what do they say? They say, give us a third assistant, pay us normally for this vaccination! They are still promised today a third assistant sometime next year, as if the community were somewhere far away. How then do you expect to achieve these results? Sociological surveys have been made on what happens when a dubious person calls a family doctor, a family doctor’s assistant, or a hired specialist, where he is still a health minister, and try to convince a person who doubts whether or not he needs vaccination. People have the greatest trust in family doctors. A man has confidence when he calls his family doctor and says he comes and vaccinates. Convinced! Greater trust. But you... You want family doctors to work like this, but they also need to treat other diseases. Colleagues! In such circumstances, I think there is reason to suspect. You know, if they asked for it now... They asked for it a year ago (a year ago they asked for it!) : Give us helpers in our practices who will come and help vaccinate people; give us helpers, do it. And, of course, also for people who have already gone to vaccination - also for them in some way... Well, now... These restrictions, what's going on... Of course, it's beautiful: go to restaurants, cinemas, it's all good, but there are also health problems for people. Colleagues! Throughout this time, the result that I mentioned at the outset, that 40 percent, as we now have vaccinated them... At the end of the day, we are in a situation where we will once again have these restrictions. At the end of the day, we are in a situation where... With us, unfortunately, people still die... That is why this is one of those rare times when I or someone else is talking about a ministerial resignation, because unfortunately - unfortunately! - the work of the minister is to be seen not in some kind of statistical results, but in disasters, in real misfortunes: the loss of human lives. Colleagues! It is clear that failure to implement the plan means that people die. It's the most... as never. And we don't have to blame the position, the opposition, anything else. You need to analyse for yourself who you are giving these advertising campaigns to organise, how ambitious they are, exactly what they have addressed. Have they addressed their rural people? Have they addressed the person they really need to talk about? Have you found the right way? It's obvious that you haven't found it. Other countries do this much better, more efficient. There is a substance for reflection, and ask yourself if the minister really is in the right place. With all due respect for Mr Pavlut, he is indeed a very good colleague as a colleague, and it is interesting to work with him, and I really have no objection to him as a Member of the Saeima, as chairman of the commission, but at this point he is being referred to as Minister for Health. The Minister is the main coordinator of the process in the country... with your right hand, your vaccination office. Both of these institutions, the Ministry and the vaccination office, are led by people who have a very, very remote relationship with the health sector. So it's about mutual trust, it's about reputation. At this point, while it is not yet too late, perhaps it is worth us to think about getting a person from a sector, a professional that is trusted in industry and citizens - a person who has a doctor's degree, perhaps also. ( Interface: “What is it? ” ) A person whose opinion is not called into question. A person who, while meeting with the sector, talks at sector level rather than being educated from industry about what vaccination is and how to do it. A man who is a step ahead of his own vision. We saw Daniel Pavilut's vision. It was in February, he made it clear and clear that by the end of the summer 70 percent of Latvia's population will have been vaccinated. Nothing was denied him, everything he had. The result is that we have new restrictions. Colleagues, I call for thought to be given to and support this demand for democracy. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. S. Riekstins: “So there will be no restrictions?” ) ( Some Members are applauding)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U166	Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U167	Very respectful head of the Saeima sitting! Highly respected colleagues! Dear colleagues, First of all, a warm welcome to our colleague, Daniel Pavilut, in connection with yesterday's very happy event. I wish both young Latvian citizens happiness, health and success to grow smart, good and healthy - Mom, Dad and Latvia for fun. But today's question is a request for a mission. Several of our opposition colleagues have already spoken and argued and will probably continue to argue about the shortcomings in the vaccination process against the community. Daniel Pavlut took up the post of Minister for Health in the middle of the pandemic. Many have already forgotten, at least since today’s speeches, what the situation was like this January. Only recently, in December, the first vaccines had been approved by the European Medicines Agency. Latvia was significantly late in supplying vaccines. The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. V. Valainis: “Why was it late?” ) It was not clear when and how the availability of vaccines would be ensured. In addition, the healthcare system was overloaded at that time by patients in the second wave of the community. At the same time, it was clear that huge resources would need to be mobilised immediately so that hundreds, thousands of people in Latvia could receive the necessary vaccine. Now, nine months later, we can see that 885 thousand people, more than 885 thousand people, have received at least one vaccine. Vaccines are freely available to the people of Latvia, there are no rows; however, there are no longer many wanters who could join them. The reasons why this is so have already been heard today and we will still hear in various interpretations. However, one thing is clear: in the fight against a pandemic, where doctors and scientists are fighting first-line, not only the deadly virus, but also a huge misinformation bubble against rational and reasonable arguments. Unimaginable rumours and false news encircling the co-vidandemia, but especially - vaccines. Unfortunately, many Latvians are also exposed to this misinformation bubble. I call on all those here to support doctors and scientists in the fight against disinformation, to build trust in research and evidence-based approaches, to vaccinate themselves who have not yet done so. Encourage others to vaccinate as well. I know that many, including colleagues from the opposition, have already done so, and thank you very much for doing so. If we manage to reduce the impact of errors, we will also see a faster increase in the number of vaccinees. The opposition condemns the inactions and errors in the organisation of the vaccination process. Clearly, there have been shortcomings. Any process involving thousands, hundreds of thousands of people will be set aside and there will also be disruptions. That was so, and unfortunately it will, it is inevitable. However, the Ministry of Health has tried to constantly improve the process, which has become smooth, easy and transparent. It's not just what doesn't do anything. The accusations of those who have asked for the mission have met the Minister quite in their own motion and, I must say, empty. I call on you not to support the request for a resignation and to vote 'no'. (Applause)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U168	Dear colleagues and honourable colleagues. The Saeima Bureau has received a request from Members Arvila Asheraden, Jura Puces, Jura Juša, Raivja Dzintars and Alda Adamovič to continue the Saeima's meeting on 16 September, without interruption, until the examination of all items on the agenda. Do Members have objections? ( Interface: “No! ”) ) Members shall not object. We shall therefore continue to examine this matter without the adjudication of the current adjournment. We are continuing the debate. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U169	Hello, colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima (Dep. A. Nemiņš: “There is no Chairman! Head of the sitting!’ )... Head of the Saeima sitting! Thank you to the experienced colleagues who can improve. This is my first speech from the gallery, but this is not the subject with which I would have liked to start. ( THE INTERPRETATION FROM THE GROUP AS TOWARD: “But I need it! ” ) But you need it. ( Milestones.) At the moment it is easy for me to compare the time before and after (Interim: Before the Group runs!) )... various of these signs have been... whether the time before has been at the black forces or at the white forces, or the time is now in reverse order... But the most important thing I would like to say to you is that Daniel (all dignity to him as a man as a minister!) quite strongly insisted on the realisation of their ideas within the government. Even the Prime Minister tried to ask for Daniel’s permission (Interface: “Vacation!” (Laughter) that the vaccination could take place with the available vaccines for all groups but not for individual groups separated at that time. Unfortunately, Daniel stood like a rock and did not vacate, even though the vaccines were in the warehouse. And so we could talk about a lot of things, too, about advertising campaigns. I'm sorry. I don't know which planet advertisers, advertisers live on, but if you accept the Russian text: leave to vaccinate, and you'll meet your grandparents sooner (Laughter). ... Well, it caused a variety of feelings in the middle of the population. ( The ring of noise.) It's the same with... The same story about “excellent” posters whose painters... I admit that they too live on another planet. — Dep. A. Neighbours: “USA!” ), in another dimension, because this gesture reminds people of something completely different from the call for vaccination. ( Some Members are applauding.) What do I mean by that? Now, yes, we are, as some say here, in war conditions, in times of crisis, but... We have now reached the point of changing the general, because the war is moving in the wrong direction. There have been dead - and not because these dead people would have died in the battle. They have fallen because the decision has been wrong. I therefore call on my fellow Members to think about this. I don't believe that what I've been talking about at the moment will somehow shift this government ship away from the course, but I hope maybe a little bit of it will leave. And I hope that the party that currently represents the health sector and the group will be able to find a better candidate, a better general health... Under the direction of the Ministry of Health, who may be able to turn that battle into a normal setting at last. Thank you. ( Some Members are applauding.)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U170	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U171	Colleagues! We received here such pity from the coalition that it was not the work of the opposition - to criticise the right decisions of the Minister. But it is also not a coalition's job - to live up to disasters. And we see it every time a new competition is launched... when a new procurement competition is being launched so that again, once again, one of the advertising agencies will be allocated funds and, as my colleague, Mr Možvillo has shown, he will have excellently failed advertising ideas that are absolutely not interested in the customers. They are only interested in the proper allocation of money. This too is probably not a coalition's job, but now the coalition is very exciting with it. The fact that “one can already be”. It is possible to vaccinate those teenagers wrong once, nothing will happen to them - see, this approach, such a attitude of the Ministry of Health towards our children, in your view, is absolutely normal. At the same time... It is absolutely normal to punish the situation where a seven-year-old child has not drawn a mask into a public place, because, here, he already has seven years and according to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 360 children of these masks should be pulled into public buildings. Moreover, when we talk about the learning process, there is also a strict definition of the classes with which the masks are to be seated. But if we're talking about vaccination, it doesn't matter how vaccinate, what vaccines. Here I would like to touch on the situation with regard to this inadequate vaccination. 284 cases, colleagues, - exactly received a reply from the Minister. 284 episodes with non-compliant vaccines. And they're not just almost adults. They're both twelve-year-olds... Twelve to fifteen-year-olds, both sixteen, seventeen-year-olds, and also... Of which 202 cases have been in a medical institution... there are also vaccination centres, marketing centres. And the interesting thing is that, obviously, when we received our questions, checks were carried out... and the checks were carried out... If someone reads it in a few years' time, I think he will also be surprised that these checks were carried out in four shopping centres. So in supermarkets, we understand that vaccination is being carried out, and in supermarkets children are being vaccinated. Four shopping centres in Riga and three shopping centres in Daugavpils. How low you can fall! When it comes to supermarkets, yes, unfortunately, violations continue. We know - we have information at our disposal - that the child has presented an invalid passport at the shopping centre. And with all the useless passport he's collected. That too, colleagues, is already a violation, much bigger than this. If we're talking more about we should all trust... Why? Daniel Pavilut, those people who try to hide possible side effects in every way?... And really honestly start talking about there are medicines that are incompatible with these vaccines. And situations... Oh, my God. There is a condition that is not compatible with vaccines. Why can't you not allow a specific vaccination situation to be excluded? If we are talking about the fact that the Council of State for Immunisation is already talking about a green corridor for patients who, after Covidvacines... who have developed pericarditis and myocarditis... on the green corridor for such patients... And now everything is being silenced, nothing is being raised in the light, you are not talking about it. And at the same time you want to trust you. Why can you not be honest and admit that there are indeed side effects and admit that such side effects are serious and that there are people who have the right not to impose the vaccine? But you are not doing this, it is already important for you to spend money on advertising your bare shoulders. I call for support for the Minister's resignation. Vote against the Ministry (Interface: “Time!” ), in support of the ministerial resignation, "to" Daniel Pavlut. He does not have to be in this post. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U172	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on distrust to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut! Please vote mode! Please get the result! It's not about - 34, it's against - 50, it's not. No decision has been taken. ( Intercretion: “Sorry! ”) ) Dear Members! Honourable Members! We have examined all the items on the agenda of the session of the Saeima on 16 September. Before we register to be present, I would like to present to you the questions that have been received by Members. Members Ramona Petraviča, Maris Možvillo, Ieva Krapāne, Jūlija Stepanenko and Ralph Nemiro have submitted a question to the Minister of Health Danielas Pavļutas “On the use of funding for the health sector Covid-19 management”. The question is referred to the Minister. The Members Regina Ločmele, Edgars Kucins, Boriss Cilevičs, Nikolai Kabanovs and Jānis Urbanovičs have submitted a question to Anita Muižniece, Minister of Education and Science, about the study programme. The question is referred to the Minister. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Maris Možvillo, Karina Sprūde, Lubova Švecova and Ramona Petraviča have submitted a question to the Minister for Health Danielas Pavlutas “On testing certification and organisation support”. The question is referred to the Minister for Health. Members Jūlija Stepanenko, Maris Možvillo, Lubova Švecova, Kaspars Girgens and Ramona Petraviča have submitted a question to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlutas, about the questions that have not been answered by Members on the vaccination of minors with non-compliant vaccines. The question is referred to the Minister for Health. I would also like to inform you about the replies to Members' questions today, September 16, at 5 p.m. The question of Members Stepanenko, Možvillo, Girgens, Sprūde and Švelova to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts “ Questions to the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the amendments of 17 August 2021 to the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 360 ‘Essential safety measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection’. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend and give an oral answer because he will be absent. Questions by Members Stepanenko, Svekova, Možvillo, Petraviča and Pucena to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavlūtas “Additional questions about side effects after vaccination against Covid-19”. The written replies received shall not be satisfied. The Minister informs that he cannot attend and give an oral answer because he will be absent. The question of Member Zariņa, Agešina, Clementyeva, Tutina and Rubika to the Minister of Health Daniel Pavlutas “On the measures taken by the Ministry of Health in relation to the expected Covid-19 outbreak”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question of Members Zarina, Agešina, Clementyeva, Tutina and Rubika to the Minister of Health Daniel Pavlutas “On additional information to be provided in relation to Covid-19 statistics”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. The question to the Minister of Education and Science Anita Muižniece, Tatars, Bergmanis, Vacans and Jalinska about the efficiency of the funds invested in air quality measuring devices and the return of this investment in the long term is a question for Members Valaiņa, Tatars, Bergmanis, Vacans and Jalinska. In the absence of a written reply, the questioners may not appear and hear the Minister's oral reply. On the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 123 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Minister shall reply in writing within 48 hours of the relevant sitting of the Saeima. The question of Members Stepanenko, Svekova, Možvillo, Girgena, Sprūde, Nemiro and Petraviča to the Minister of Health Daniel Pavļutas “On the load of particular hospitals and other health issues”. The written responses received are not satisfactory, but they do not wish to ask further oral questions. Colleagues, so today's answers to Members' questions will not take place at 17.00. Only presence registration. Please register. As soon as the results of the registration are collected, the name of the member of the Saeima Secretary Inese Voika to read the results of the registration.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U173	Not registered: Jānis Adamsons, Aldis Blumbergs, Boriss Cilevičs, Jānis Dūklavs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš, Armands Krauze (Dep. A. Neighbours: “Adamson is!” ), Ainars Latkovskis, Ināra Mūrniece, Vladimir Nikonovs, Juris Rancāns, Inguna Rībena and Arthur Rubiks. Thank you very much to everyone.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-09-16-PT13-2297-U174	Thank you. I closed the Saeima sitting on September 16th.
