ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U1	Good morning, honourable Members of the Saeima! We will begin the remote session of the parliamentary extraordinary session of 12 August 2021. On the agenda, consideration of the draft decision. Draft decision on the announcement of an emergency. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! You are all aware of the current situation on the border between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus. Yesterday, in its meeting of departure, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption took note of the current situation on the ground, as well as reviewed the Government's Order of 10 August 2021 No. 518 Promulgating an emergency. I will briefly give you the most important points. The emergency situation is announced from 11 August of this year to 10 November of this year. It is encouraged in four districts – it is Ludza novads, Kraslava novads, Augšdaugava novads and Daugavpils city. What is the purpose of this specific order on the announcement of an emergency? The Order provides, first of all, that the National Armed Forces and the State Police provide assistance to the State Border Guard in order to prevent illegal border crossing from Belarus. The order is also intended to give... Thus, when establishing that persons have illegally crossed the border of the Republic of Latvia, all mentioned – both the National Armed Forces, the State Border Guard and the State Police participating in this border guard – have the right to order such persons who have already crossed the border to return to the country from which they have crossed the border and to take the necessary measures to ensure that the persons comply with that order. The State Police and the State Border Guard also have the right to use physical force, special means to immediately return the person to the country from which he comes. It is also established that applications for refugee status or subsidiary status are not accepted in the State Border Guard and other state institutions in the said territories where an emergency situation has been declared. The National Armed Forces, in cooperation with the State Border Guard and the Administration of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, must provide a place and infrastructure for accommodation of persons who had previously crossed illegally... and potentially... a person may still cross the border. So these people have to be housed, and the obligation to find such a place and infrastructure is imposed on all three... So cooperation between the National Armed Forces, the National Border Guard and the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs needs to decide these issues. Go on. The order “On the Emergency” allows the State Border Guard and the Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs to apply the norms of the Public Procurement Law, which provides for an exception to ensure accommodation of these asylum seekers, food supply and goods of first need. Consequently, expenditure is intended to be covered by budgetary resources, which are intended as resources for unforeseen events. The Order also provides that, if necessary, the Cabinet of Ministers may decide to request international assistance, apply to the European Union and other organisations. In general, after examining this order and getting to know the current situation at the border, the Commission unanimously acknowledged that this order is acceptable, necessary, proportionate and fully enforceable so that we prevent possible migration... crisis. So thank you, colleagues. I call on you to support this draft decision prepared by the Commission on the declaration of an emergency situation at the border.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is clear that we are now in the context of the hybrid war conducted by the Kremlin and its satellite. To date, it was an invisible concept that many spoke about, but rarely understood how it could be expressed in nature, often in the context of an information war or in the context of an attack involving information technology. At the moment, however, living people are already involved in this war, who are actually being used and sent as a weapon in the fight against opponents of the authoritarian regime, in this case – against civilised Europe, and therefore against the Baltic States and Poland. In this case, we need to reconfirm this order of the Cabinet of Ministers, because, I remind you, the order is already valid and, as far as I know, it is working well enough. At first, when the draft order was submitted, I was caused by a known... I was concerned whether the State Border Guard would be granted all the rights it needs to deal effectively with these illegal immigrants who are trying to take advantage of the situation – in cooperation with Lukashenko's regime! – and to enter the territory of Latvia. Thank you to the Cabinet of Ministers in general that the original draft order has improved significantly. And, in my view, at the moment the order really provides for the necessary rights and is strong enough for the border guard to be able to carry out its duties effectively. Well, for example, the order included paragraph 5: When the State Border Guard found that a person had illegally crossed the border of the Republic of Latvia with Belarus, the right to use physical force and also special means (does not define what, therefore, everyone) to force the person to return immediately to the country from which it is illegal... It has thus crossed the border of the country. And also paragraph 6 has been adjusted where... In particular, applications of persons for refugee status or subsidiary status are not accepted in the State Border Guard departments and other institutions located in the territory in which the emergency situation has been declared. I think that too... We must turn all the resources of the border guard directly to this work at the border, preventing this illegal entry into the country, rather than doing bureaucratic procedures. Well, bureaucratic procedures, if we are talking about them, have been gentle enough so far, so that they are not allowed to be abused, as has happened now, and therefore, of course, in this context too, the declaration of the emergency situation is fully justified. The Saeima as the legislator, who is obliged to evaluate and approve the orders of the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the announcement of the emergency situation, will probably need to address this issue in all possible formats, as it is expected that the alternative regime of Lukashenko... Of course, I have no doubt that, in communication with the Kremlin, countries that would be willing to send their citizens for their further use as a weapon of hybrid war will continue to be identified. As a result, these floods, as they could be said, have not come to an end with this order in itself. We must also pay attention to the government... And against these causes... And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should also act in the international field, referring directly to these criminal activities committed by the Lukashenko regime against civilised Europe in response to European sanctions. I invite you to support this draft decision so that the border guard can fulfil his duties – to protect Latvia's statehood and border. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U5	Thank you. Until the technical problems relating to the connection of the Minister of the Interior to the e-Parliaments are resolved, let us give the floor to the next speaker. Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U6	Dear colleagues, At the moment, it is not about what Latvian nationalists or cosmopolitans, conservatives or liberals think. At the moment, it is about how Latvia will succeed in halting the hybrid war against our country. I am pleased that the Cabinet of Ministers took the necessary decisions and that Latvian and Lithuanian services have started to successfully stop the thousands of illegal migrants driven from Belarus. At this point, we also have a great responsibility to take care of a common international position and a common communication in the information space. It is particularly important to realise that Latvia will soon be targeted by a slander campaign in various international institutions. I hope that no colleague from the Saeima, especially from those parties whose members are accused of spying for Russia, will leave this informative fight against the state of Latvia. There are enough Eastern influence agents in Latvia and they are helpful, but it is our country's duty to be united in this, I would say, crisis situation, in this hybrid war situation, and to stick firmly to its positions. I invite you to vote today in favour of this declaration of emergency and the Cabinet of Ministers... the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U7	Name of Member Inga Goldberg.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U8	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Minister! Dear colleagues, In support of the draft decision, I would like to draw attention to one aspect that I think has been forgotten so far, but which is very important for the citizens of these municipalities, especially those living close to the border. And this is a lack of true and reliable information that affects local people. Information on how to deal with one or the other situation they might face during a crisis. Yesterday, after meeting with the leaders of Latgale municipality, the Minister said that people will not change anything in everyday life and called for cooperation. I'm not gonna agree. First of all, the everyday life of the crisis was changed – much more often the helicopter overflowed, an atypical road transport with lights appeared on the quiet roads, and the moon also had to watch border guards with dogs, crossing the meadow literally close to the house. Unsightly sounds, siren's night in black. There is a great deal of questions on the part of the population, and these are very practical questions that you may find irrelevant, but which are very, very important to them. For example, where to call if you notice something strange? Can you call at any time of the day? What if a foreigner enters the yard or if a resident encounters it in a forest? Should a passport be taken with you when you go to the forest, and should the passport be taken with you when you are in the municipalities affected? What about the kids? Can they alone be on the street, and what if they do not have a passport? Will this have any impact on tourism providers? What are the powers of the border guard, and can they affect the daily lives of citizens? What to do if some activities are carried out in my property – do I have to reconcile them or at least inform me about them? There are already points and concerns about the places where the camps could be located. Doctors worry about who will treat illegal immigrants if they become ill in camps. So far, the number of police officers in the counties has been reduced to a minimum, and can you rely on the police if any disorder arises? The information vacuum usually shows a variety of speculations, which are already really visible on the ground. Secondly, in order to cooperate, as the Minister calls for, it is necessary to know how. I would remind you that although public media broadcasting at the border has improved significantly, it does not cover the whole territory, and the habits of citizens to watch more technically accessible media from other countries are difficult to change, and it takes time. For the sake of truth, it should be said that in early August the Border Guard Department of the State Border Guard had addressed the county residents with a request to inform if they noticed at the border persons or groups of persons not typical of the ethnic or national nationality of the Republic of Latvia. Information was placed on the website of Krāslava Municipality Council. It must be said that, if this information is to be found now, it must be sought strongly, and that is the only one that has so far been addressed to the population. Looking carefully for information for two days to provide answers to the questions asked by the citizens, on the websites of municipalities, social networks, ministries, border guards information sources. Unfortunately, nothing could be found, but it can even be very simple. For example, one official may be asked to collect this practical information and ask the local authorities to disseminate it to their citizens. This does not require additional funds and funding for new offices and special campaigns. When speaking to citizens, there were simple proposals, such as sending text messages to mobile phones with information where to call in case of an emergency. Most importantly, without the support and understanding of the local population, it will be difficult to cope successfully with the crisis, but this can be achieved by treating the situation with respect and providing answers to such simple but very important daily questions for the population. I call for support for the draft decision. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U9	Thank you. Name to the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U10	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, On Tuesday, August 10, the Cabinet of Ministers decided to declare the emergency situation at the border between Latvia and Belarus, taking into account the rapid increase in the number of illegal border crossings between the Republic of Latvia and the Republic of Belarus, as well as taking into account the large number of illegal border crossings from the territory of Belarus in the neighbouring country in Lithuania. The emergency situation is implemented from August 11, 2021 to November 10, 2021 in Ludza district, Kraslava district, Augšdaugava district and Daugavpils city. This decision is taken to protect the Republic of Latvia and the European Union against the mass flow of uncontrolled migration from Belarus, which the regime uses as a weapon in order to create illegal migration routes from third countries. The reason for the emergency is a significant threat to the state and public safety, as well as to human health and life, which is caused by a foreign purposefully organized massive illegal crossing of the state border of Latvia. From 6 August, the number of illegal crossing cases increased sharply – in a few days more than the total of the previous year. Since the beginning of July, more than 4,000 people were sent from Belarus in an organized way in Lithuania. Thanks to this decision, the State Border Guard, in cooperation with the National Armed Forces within the framework of an emergency, reinforced border control and may prevent illegal border offenders. The National Armed Forces and the State Police provide assistance to the State Border Guard under border surveillance. National armed forces, the State Border Guard and the State Police shall have the right to use possible procedures and means to prevent illegal border crossing. When it comes to finding illegal border crossings, an order will be issued to return to Belarus. The services will make sure that the order has been executed by the person and will accompany him if necessary. The Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the National Armed Forces, will provide a place and infrastructure for accommodation if they are detained for illegal border crossing. During the emergency period it will not be possible to claim asylum in Latvia from the territory of the emergency situation. Of course, it will be possible to do this in general order elsewhere in Latvia. This decision limits the rights of certain persons for a limited period of time and extends the powers and responsibilities of officials to decide on the prompt return of irregular border guards. All provisions of the emergency situation shall be adopted in such a way as to limit as little as possible the human rights defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Latvia, laws and international obligations. These restrictions shall be proportionate to their legitimate aim of protecting public security. If necessary, the Cabinet will also decide to request international assistance through the European Union Civil Protection Mechanism. I call on the Saeima to support this decision.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U11	Thank you to the Minister for the Interior. The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U12	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Hello, colleagues! First of all, I would like to thank Juris Rancāns, as the head of the Commission, who organised this journey to the border, as well as much thanks to Mrs Ināra Mūrniece and the Minister for the Interior, for having attended this meeting and really demonstrated an interest in the situation at the border. From my point of view, I can say that our border is open! The situation at the border is now below any criticism, below any normal state... looks at it. Indeed, I would recommend to anyone who has the opportunity to move from Members, including those in charge, to the border and look at the reality. It is not normal that, in these 30 years of independence, we have not managed to complete our external borders by technical means so that our external borders, both within the European Union and in our country, are of adequate quality and with appropriate equipment, against less friendly neighbours. I think it is not worth looking at who is responsible for what and why has not been done, but looking to this situation seriously enough, because we hear this sign from the politicians' mouth – that this is a hybrid war. Obviously, this word must also be fulfilled. If it is a war, it is also necessary to take action in times of war. In particular, at this point in time, from the border guards, from the border guards, we heard from the people of the border guards concrete things that prevent the border from being arranged quickly and to achieve an effect. I am not satisfied with the offer offered by the Ministry of the Interior – the arrangement of borders after 10... some years, maybe now it's a plan for four-year steps to arrange the border... In my opinion, we need to act very actively and immediately and today. Consequently, I believe that all laws relating to both border and border issues should be reviewed without delay, and those rules relating specifically to the border should be easy to enforce, quick, high-quality. There cannot be a situation where our borders do not meet those parameters, the requirements of the normal border crossing point, including this patrol zone... and the rest. Speaking about why border guards are still working at the border and carrying out their duties, I can say that only because they are led by patriotism and they are enthusiasts of their work, because what they do with their own hands does not belong to any of their duties, they should not do it, but they have done it to protect the country. We have had the opportunity to see how border guards work in particular with these cases. And people actually got in front of... Or... to be honest, against this flow of illegals being driven from Belarus... with guns... to the border of Latvia. I believe that ministries need to act immediately and that all the necessary regulatory acts must be implemented immediately so that we can start building the border tomorrow and make our external borders, as well as those of Europe, look at the borders at last and that the border guards can work safely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U13	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U14	Hello, very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Madam Minister, Dear colleagues, I'm talking about this draft decision... I think it would be unnecessary to discuss why, today, such a draft decision has been on our agenda, but above all what I wanted to mention, this situation at the border and which is not taken into account in the process of drawing up this draft decision. These are very important things – with regard to the fact that there are also people living in the following areas: Kraslava, Ludza district, as well as Upper Daugsdaugava district. Some economic activity takes place there, some people's daily lives take place, and this draft decision does not fully respect them. That is why this decision (also what the government has adopted), in my view, is very poorly prepared, because, for example, what concerns businesses working in the tourism business, at the very border, what will they do all these months as long as there is an emergency? How will the visas work, will they be able to address their customers, what are they doing very successfully at the moment?... What's at the border... Border tourism, which, in some circumstances, can still function at the moment. A number of questions have arisen for these operators since the adoption of this Decision, which has already entered into force. In principle, if we do not allow economic operators to work successfully with this decision, then there must also be additional support mechanisms that have been omitted here at all. The same applies to logging... to employees, to agriculture. The harvest is currently under great pressure, and these restrictions may also affect access to agricultural areas, maintenance of machinery, which is very important at the moment, but the solution throughout this time absolutely... There is no one at the moment, nothing has been prepared. The same thing... I am thinking about these practical issues. Not only is it how border guards will now catch these migrants and what they will do with them. That's one thing. The other thing is about these people who were talked about today... The Minister did not speak at all, but only Mrs Goldberg, from our colleagues, and I fully join her. Contacting these local government leaders raises more and more questions with each day. The same applies if we look at the role of the municipality in this everything – so to ensure premises, catering... You have to pay for it and, of course, this payment... I accept that the government will also pay, and there is already such an agreement, but at the same time, if we go through this mechanism, we need to understand that through the funds of unforeseen events... This process takes about half a year while the municipality receives this funding. Latgale municipalities expect funding for half a year – this is a very long period. It should also reflect on how to make it faster and more efficient. That is why, in my view, this draft decision must be supported, but at the same time we see that it is prepared unilaterally by public administration, by the state, let us say, by the interests of how to stop these refugees, but completely, absolutely not by the interests of the citizens - those who live there, who are engaged in some kind of economic activity there -... absolutely no respect for what I think is a great mistake here. There is no need for particular effort, for simple preparation and in-depth examination of the problems of these citizens, on their daily issues, which I hope will also happen in the near future. Preparation of special permits or the introduction of new stoppages for those operators whose business will simply stop because of this decision, or the issue of special permits for certain operators who will still need access to certain territories, which will be prevented by this Decision. I hope that these things will be taken into account in future proceedings during these months, because one is to solve the problems, the other is that there are people who are more directly affected than those who live in Riga or decide from another city that is far from the real scene that we are talking about. Thank you. And I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U15	Thank you. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U16	Colleagues, good morning, and thank you for the opportunity to speak. In all this context of the problem, I would like to draw attention to one aspect. We know that in Lithuania the problems with the influx of migrants have already begun in early July or even in late June. What action was followed by the Latvian services respectively, from the Ministry of the Interior of Latvia in this regard? Yes, of course, Latvia supported Lithuanian colleagues and sent three generators, three tents and 3000 blankets to Lithuanian colleagues. At the same time, it seems to me that all of the geography has the fact that the border between Latvia and Belarus is 170 kilometres. And where Lithuania is, there is also Latvia. Was it not necessary to start active work in July, to prepare Latvia for possible risks, and to offer solutions to the refugee crisis? No, no! In July, Latvia still... and the Minister of the Interior of Latvia believes that the risks are not so high and it is not necessary to think... or visit the border, or raise alarms at the border. What do we see? At the end of July, our minister is preparing and giving a speech, highlighting the problem of hate speech alone. It seems that we do not notice that, in fact, we have problems with the influx of migrants and refugees. But we have other problems where the Minister of the Interior spends his time and resources. If we look at the public media space with you today, we will see that Delfi publishes home affairs ministers, so to speak, a publication that talks about the need to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement authorities to respond to hate crimes. We will not find publications by the Minister of the Interior or her advisers in the public environment on the obligation to strengthen the capacity of law enforcement authorities to respond to the refugee crisis. Unfortunately, this issue became very late and well after the problem reached or began to reach a critical limit, i.e. when the refugee centre is already over-crowded and people living at the border have very, very many questions. In my opinion, incompetentness and consequently late response are the consequence of the fact that everything in general, the border situation at that stage of 173 kilometres, is in such a sad state as Mr Možvillo has just said. In my opinion, the problems outlined by Mrs Goldberga regarding the level of awareness and awareness of the problems of the local government population, and the need to respond, show the non-professionality, inpreparedness and the existence of quite other priorities on the agenda of the Ministry of the Interior. My dear people, unfortunately, feel that once again we see the rescue of the glacier being in the hands of the glacier himself. So those living in the border must be able to protect themselves, to plan their lives and to be able to respond to the situation themselves. In my opinion, this is unacceptable and also makes us think about the level of professionalism and quality that is up to date in the relevant area and that is working in the Ministry of the Interior. I strongly support and will vote in favour of the announcement of the emergency situation; I just want the Ministry of the Interior and those working there to do what is really important and what is relevant to the citizens of Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U17	Thank you. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U18	Dear colleagues, Of course, I do not see any other way to support this decision of the Saeima: the emergency situation needs to be declared. Whether the refugee crisis will only be resolved by adopting this decision by the Saeima will, of course, be time-developing. Unfortunately, the government's performance so far does not indicate the ability to act quickly and effectively in crisis situations. There is one thing to say, but working in a situation of real crisis, as we see in the last two or three years, is something completely different. Colleagues, unfortunately, our public administration... The legislator is used to dealing with issues by adopting new laws, numerous amendments to laws, decisions of the Saeima, resolutions and so on, while the other side – we are talking about Belarus, of course – has become accustomed to concrete action. It is not very difficult to predict developments on this issue. There is no doubt that the other side is more prepared to deal with migrants decisively. Here, of course, I am talking about the fact that any use of physical force from Latvian border guards, police and soldiers in relation to migrants will undoubtedly be widely reflected in the world's media. The fact that the Belarusian side can do so is not a secret to anyone. For the European Union country Latvia this damage and its price to the international reputation will, of course, be disproportionately higher than any use of excessive force, which is very likely in this crisis situation. In particular – in particular! – if migrants will be women and children. And it is very likely that, with this intention, a large proportion of migrants will be women and children. Thus, it can be predicted that a large part of migrants will still enter the territory of Latvia, and it will be our duty to accommodate them, feed them, and all this will, of course, be for Latvian taxpayers' money. Today there is August, a salty autumn, but very soon October will come and it will not be possible to keep these migrants in tents. Then they will need to be provided with decent living conditions. If not, pictures will once again travel around the world about the cruel treatment of migrants by Latvia. So, colleagues, it is clear that the only solution is the barriers at the border, which will, of course, take time. If the Lithuanian side estimates that construction of barriers will cost them around 152 million euros (which is 508 kilometres of Belarusian-Lithuanian border), then a simple calculation shows that we could pay at least 52 million euros – on our border. Of course, we are likely to be more expensive. How do we know – the construction cartel and so... Therefore, what is missing in this argument is that we should ask our builders' cartel to agree on the price at which it is prepared to build its fence as soon as possible. Colleagues, I would like to believe that this will end well, but unfortunately we see that the government's capacity in recent years... only to hope for God’s help. I call for support, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U19	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U20	Madam President, Minister! Colleagues! Yesterday I visited the border for the first time and I was in many other places. So we see that situation and follow it for many years. The problem, which was 10 years ago, five years ago, is also now a problem – our border with Belarus has not been strengthened. Of course, the situation is very difficult, since our border runs 42 kilometres, along the bogs also goes 11 kilometres, where it is not so easy to build... both to put the fence and to lay the stairs, but the construction of bridges is a special story, because we see that we have stopped two general processes... continues on this subject, but I would like to turn to the State Audit Office as well. Please leave and check for what money we can build bridges in the conditions there. There's no sand floor... The problem that we are currently facing, which will help us to detain refugees, is the construction of a border as envisaged by European Union standards, but we are unfortunately very far from it. We need to prepare for EUR 27 million in the coming years. This is for the moment, but the price increase for all goods – petrol, electricity – is very rapid, you see. We can expect this to cost 40 or 50 million, but it is necessary. We can also demand their money - as the Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission has said many times - from the European Union because we are the last border of the European Union in this direction. We have the right to demand money. We need to be much more active both for the Prime Minister and for the Minister of the Interior, but for the orders made by the Cabinet on the tenth day... in August this year, I fully support it, because if we do not do it, then we will have to prepare for the construction of tent towns, we will also have to prepare feeding points, medical points... and judicial proceedings, too. So we better now declare an emergency situation for those three districts and the city of Daugavpils to prevent immediately... from the beginning of their problem. But what is left behind will remain. But the fact that we attract both landguards and the Ministry of Defence is very good because we can test and learn from all of this for our state institutions. That will be a very good experience. Maybe we also need to think about making such a... a replacement or replacement part which may, for example, replace or assist border guards in cases where this is necessary. It is a principle like in Italy: there are soldiers – they could be used as soldiers during the war, they have been trained, but when they come from missions, they can be used as police officers during peace. They are trained, they have every right to do so. So, I think it's not bad. We also need experience – two ministries gather together and talk about this topic... it is possible or not possible, needs or does not need – then those people will be prepared. Learning is never too late, learning can never be too much. So I call for this order to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U21	Thank you. The name of Member Ramona Petraviča.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U22	Good morning, Madam President-in-Office of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, The situation at the Latvian-Belarusian border poses a threat not only to the security of Latvia, but also to the ability of the European Union as a whole to control the influx of immigrants in the country. The current response due to neglect has been unduly late, unclear and insufficiently effective. Firstly, it should be mentioned that the current action creates an opportunity for the Belarusian authoritarian regime to use the immigrant crisis as a political lever against Latvia and the European Union. In addition, it allows the Belarusian regime to continue... Allow... free movement of immigrants to and across the border, so that the Member States of the European Union, without being able to resolve this crisis, are forced, for example, by the abolition of sanctions against Belarus, the requirement for funding to accommodate refugees in Belarus, the extradition of political opponents, and so on. Such a scenario must be recognised, and to a lesser extent, has shown itself in Turkey, which was used as a buffer zone for migrants for the European Union. Secondly, why should the country's position be apologies against any reception or accommodation of immigrants from the current crisis in the country? In developing a crisis management policy, as much funding and political capital as possible should be devoted to halting the crisis rather than adapting to overcome the crisis. In this case, the resources necessary for accommodation and for the protection of accommodation must be allocated to the protection of the border. Based on the words of Commander of the National Armed Forces Leonida Kalniņš... The Belarus border is insufficiently equipped and leads to security holes. These holes, as well as insufficient protection of the entire border, will quickly overflow the capacity of accommodation, leading to a lack of resources. The country of Latvia and the European Union must create a clear message that immigrants are not welcome here. Otherwise, it will become intuitive... expect a greater influx of migrants, saying that they may be admitted. Thirdly, why assimilation of immigrants in Latvian society is almost impossible and unwanted. Looking at the adverse event... When these immigrants are accommodated in Latvia, the long-term consequences of their stay here must be taken into account. Global exclusion, non-recognition of culture, obstacles to income would make them look for alternative ways of resisting what has been observed in other European Union countries in the form of hatred, segregation in closed municipalities and efforts to obtain funds illegally. An outstanding example is the German city of Kreicberg, where such municipalities have developed. Otherwise... their integration has not received broad public support in society. The recent behaviour of an unregistered immigrant in France by burning down the church, killing its priests, as well as other acts of terrorism and attacks in society, create justified fears of security. There is no reason to believe that this influx of immigrants will not commit crimes, so the entry of immigrants into the country... its supporters will have to be responsible for every immigrant's hatred, terrorism or sexual crime. Integration, failure to overcome major cultural and religious differences... From the Middle East, immigrants often have a diametrically different understanding of moral and cultural norms, ranging from restricting different services and clothing for women to child trafficking and later marriages. These values are not acceptable to Latvian society, to any Member State of the European Union and to me. The terrorist attacks and hate attacks on the largest cities of Western Europe, the formation of immigrant municipalities and the threat to society cannot happen in Latvia. Colleagues! The state's response to the immigration crisis at the Latvian-Belarusian border must be much more pragmatic in order to reduce the neighbouring country's ability to exert political pressure on Latvia and the European Union countries and reduce the initiative of immigrants themselves to come here. The Western experience clearly points to this problem (A sound break.) ... To any migrant...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U23	Thank you. Thank you to Mrs Petravič. The debate is over. The name of the Member, John Isal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U24	Hello, colleagues! The National Association met with the border guard management and home affairs ministers already on Tuesday last week. At the time when only a few dozen illegal immigrants crossed the border of Latvia from Belarus, we pointed out that when Lithuania gradually shuts down its border and successfully pushes migrants, it is only logical that they will come and be directed towards the border of Latvia. That is why we called for an emergency to be announced at that time and for the Latvian-Belarusian border to be strengthened. Unfortunately, last week the Minister of the Interior and the border guard management considered that this threat that the Lithuanian scenario would be repeated in Latvia was unlikely, but a few days later it proved that I and colleagues of the National Association were right. The Minister of the Interior and the management of the border guard were too optimistic, careless about the situation. Instead, last week the Minister of the Interior chose to attend the entertainment event “Baltic Praids” instead of strengthening the Latvian-Belarusian border. Of course, it's better late than ever. This week, the Cabinet has taken the necessary steps to strengthen the border. In my opinion, it would be important for the Ministry of the Interior to come to the Cabinet of Ministers within the coming weeks with an information report and the necessary regulatory drafts so that already this year it is possible to complete the strengthening of the Latvian-Belarusian border with a secure fence, with all surveillance devices, because it is clear that Lukashenko will worry and send migrants to couples, testing the strength of our border. I think – the Minister of the Interior can be sure that exactly how she will deal with this crisis and how many illegal immigrants will get into Latvia even after this order to prevent them – that is what the National Association and the society as a whole will appreciate her work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U25	Thank you. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U26	I wanted to add to what I said earlier because... It must be understood that the agents of the Kremlin influence do not go on, go on, they have already begun to build their heads on all communication channels. That is why, in connection with this order, we must be... All Members of the Saeima should be morally prepared to withstand these attempts to influence the minds of our citizens, Latvia, as well as of course to influence the thoughts of the Members of the Saeima. That's one. Second. We will not overcome this crisis - completely - without the participation of citizens, especially those who live in border areas, and this is precisely through our civil activity, which includes reporting to the law enforcement authorities, to the local police, if the area is thought to be moving in the direction of the country's inside, previously unseen, unknown groups of persons without such... with the first seemingly uncertain reason why they should be there... then, of course, the call for me to report to the law enforcement authorities. As far as I know, there have been cases of prior... Well, in the previous period, outside this crisis... The active participation of citizens has helped to detain illegal immigrants. Thanks also to those who write and offer assistance to the border guard. And, among other things, I am even (interest!) have received local offers, either from at least one landowner, that he or she would be prepared to land for use in the case of a border guard if it were necessary to develop some activities directly in the area of border protection. So thank you to all citizens who are actively involved...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U27	Thank you. Thank you. The debate has also come to an end. The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U28	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Obviously this decision is necessary, but a few moments I have serious concerns about – and exactly how this draft decision... its annotation and the comments of officials and Members also interpret our international obligations. The Dear Minister for the Interior argued that the refusal to accept and deal with asylum applications is proportionate and justified. No argument I can't see anywhere. There is a reference to one judgment of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), which is rather missed, although the interpretation of that judgment is questionable. Colleagues! I would like to remind you that the right to asylum as such is not expressly referred to in the European Convention on Human Rights, but there is a very broad case-law of the European Court of Human Rights, which interprets Article 3, that is, the prohibition of torture and cruel and degrading treatment, in the context of the right to asylum. In fact, the principle of non-refoulement is treated as an infringement of Article 3. Of course, we are not obliged to grant asylum to all those who request it, but we are obliged to examine all applications, including those from those who cross the border illegally. And all persons under Latvian jurisdiction... In fact, the Convention grants them such an application. Of course, the accelerated procedures provided for in both the European Union directives and our Asylum Law can be applied, but we must not refuse to accept and consider the application at all. If I am wrong and that is not the case, I would like to see serious legal grounds. I don't see that yet. And those colleagues who care about Latvia's international imagery and who are concerned about it and who want to fight against some enemies that are both around and inside and so on... Well, I understand it's such a permanent rhetoric. Colleagues, should we not start by ensuring that all the decisions we make are fully in line with our international commitments? I would like to remind you of the debate very recently, when similar situations, essentially more serious and serious, occurred in other Member States of the European Union. Then those same colleagues spoke from the same point of view – “no pig or my druva” – to solve it, no solidarity is needed. Already then, some forward-looking experts predicted that they should not do so, because the day can come when we need international support and solidarity, and now this day seems to be there. And the last thing I'd like to say. It is a great surprise to me that, in this discussion, I do not hear any of the speakers from a party that has taken responsibility for the area of home affairs from a party that declares that the rights of all people are a priority for this party. Colleagues! That is your responsibility. Should you not, however, express your position in this debate? You talk a lot about hate speech. Are you sure that some remarks have not already been made in this debate, which can be considered to be hate speech? Is the fact that you are in government and that you should actually stick to the coalition with all your strength – it changes your position? Do your principles apply only to other countries? It really seems to me that this is a very serious challenge, how we can tackle our security problems while fully respecting human rights and our international obligations. However, I would like to hear your comments and reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U29	Thank you. Name to Member Edvin Schnorem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U30	Hello, dear colleagues! The situation on the Belarus border, as has already been said here, is indeed dramatic. The equipment on the border with Belarus is not comparable to the equipment for Latvia on the border with Russia. Almost half of all border violations at the border with Belarus are first discovered not by border guards, but by local people. So the situation... This is, in fact, an emergency and emergency solutions are needed. There are criticisms about this order that it contains a point that Latvia states that in these areas of emergency, border offenders will not be able to request and submit asylum applications for the duration of the emergency. Of course, there will be complaints. Of course, there will be protests. It's already... We are already seeing this in full in Lithuania, but at the same time I remind you that the security of the country has been put on the card. Either we keep our limit completely open, let anyone who wants to come in... So at the beginning they are hundreds, then thousands, they can be tens of thousands, they can be calmly arranged by Russia and Belarus. We are overcrowding Mucenieki, overcrowding Daugavpils Centre, we are making Latvian citizens pay for all this – Latvian pensioners, teachers, policemen – in fact, from their salary to pay for all of this. And then, a year later, two, or when some bureaucratic procedure ends, it will be found that this right of asylum was probably not there. The situation can then develop even worse than in Lithuania, and is similar to the one in Germany in 2015. I may remind those who have analysed this situation only superficially. Who are these so-called refugees or asylum seekers who are now coming to the border of Belarus? These are people from Iraq who have arrived on a flight plane to Minsk, who have then moved from Minsk to the border with a taxi to Latvia and expect that Belarusian border guards bring them to the border of Latvia... and they expect them to enter the European Union, civilianly demanding this asylum... receive this status, pretend to be vulnerable persons. Native Europeans will believe all of this, as was already the case in Germany, will welcome them to ambush... Germany in 2015... these scenes. And that's how it's going to happen. In Latvia... It is necessary to give a very clear signal that in Latvia it will not happen in this way that Latvia will protect its borders on a real basis. I also recall that Latvia is one of the rare countries of the European Union where criminal liability for the illegal crossing of the border has already been established. And maybe that's why, as we say, we've had less desire to try it than in Lithuania. It is also good that the Latvian authorities... Daugavpils court, as far as I understand, has already applied detention. We have been sentenced to such acts. And that's why, let's say, our little-equipped border... It still functions in some way because we have the relevant standards of this law. But again I would remind you – the situation is an emergency! And in this case, I think we should not be red tape, we should not get worse. I call on everyone to support the adoption of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U31	Thank you. Name to Member Juris Rancan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U32	Good afternoon, colleagues! I would like to reflect a little on the statements made by individual colleagues and perhaps also to clarify certain points in this order more. First of all, Mr Valaiņa's story about the fact that municipalities, entrepreneurs at the border will now suffer. Well, sorry, my fellow Members, I am asking you to read again the order that has been given there. There is no mention of entrepreneurship in any way. Of course, apart from those who consider their business to be a person or goods illegal across our borders, they could suffer from the fact that there will now be reinforced patrols on so-called green lanes and border guards together with the National Armed Forces and the State Police units, they could also prevent such smuggling of goods... This type of "entrepreneurs" (footsteps) could, however, suffer. I would also like to say that this business model, which calls for tourists from abroad to enter the European Union at the moment, is typical for Belarus and not for Latvia. No businessman in Latvia has such a business model that he will now accommodate refugees and asylum seekers in the form of tourism. Mr Valaiņa's statements that no visas will be issued now are a total deception to the public. You can't do that, colleagues! I call on us to be accurate when we refer to what is in this order and when we make a political decision. Talking further about the human rights that are being heard. What I am calling for to understand. Firstly, we must all realise at this point that a hybrid war is taking place and that the democrats must be able to protect themselves. Today, this narrow understanding of human rights is being used as a instrument of hybrid war. Very well, Edwin indicated in advance that in this way, if we rely on human rights and every one of these speakers for the fact that we have to accept everyone and then assess it, we have to build a huge infrastructure. Then we will just lose this hybrid war. Very simple. To deliver flights with illegal immigrants from the Middle East and also from other countries, I think there would be no problem for Belarus and Russia. That's it! We'd have 10,000 women with children coming here. Please! Hold on, pay! I would say that, first of all, we need to think about our women and our children and ensure that we are here, in our country, the security that we are currently accustomed to at the same level of self-understood. But this security is not self-evident, it must be protected and protected preventively, because we see what has happened in countries where it is naive to human rights... This interpretation – now we will take everyone here and everyone will be so good faith and will not do anything bad to us – has completely failed, absolutely not justified. And I would definitely not like to see any similar situation in Latvia. The worst thing is that these broadcasters of human rights - this narrow understanding - have never assumed responsibility in any of these countries for any terrorist activity that has occurred there or for the life of one victim. And the worst thing is that at the moment this responsibility is being tried to football us, to Latvia, that we are not taking on, but no one is condemning the Belarusian regime for using these people and their naive expectations, their desire to get to the European Union. And why is it trying to make it our problem? This is the problem of Mr Lukashenko and the problem of his country that he has been invited, and if he has invited women and children, then it is his duty to keep them or send them back accordingly. They have their own legislation. And finally, if we are talking about our international commitments and conventions. Perhaps the Members' gentlemen will have forgotten... Some time ago, but... These international agreements provide for the possibility, in an emergency, of derogating from certain obligations and this legal mechanism is secured. So, colleagues, let us not talk foolishness and we will support this specific draft decision. We still have much work to do to maintain and maintain our security, which we have had so far. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U33	Thank you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U34	Dear colleagues, It must be said that probably also looking at the events that took place in 2015... and some of the heroes of these events are now those who seem to protect our borders (I am talking about Mrs Golubeva)... then, of course, it cannot be overlooked that these doctors and engineers are here and those doctors that are so much needed for Mr Pavļuta are probably here, and the engineers that are needed for the reindustrialisation of Mr Kariņš are also here at last. Now they can come and expect them. If we speak seriously, then this situation really enlightens everything – another situation now – in addition to the communion story, highlights everything that has not been done in the last 30 years. And here, of course, we are talking about strengthening the border. Unfortunately, what we see in this emergency order is what some colleagues, Mr Valaiņš, have mentioned, unfortunately... and other colleagues... Unfortunately, I do not care about the local population here in this order. So information, information for these people, what to do in a situation where, for example, in a abandoned building, young people who want to tell abandoned manors suddenly face such illegal immigrants, border crossings, a barn... and they also have vulnerable persons... I am talking about our citizens... And here is just a question that will survive, because obviously those people who have come to us illegally have different intentions. What purpose is perhaps not too legitimate. We see that a person has crossed the border at all, in violation of the law; it is clear that he will not be the rightful citizen. What I saw in this order is unfortunately... You really, colleagues from Development/About! , can't you stop using the heavy situations in the country to make money every time? When will you end using all our disasters to earn money on them? Because what we see at the end of this order – again without a competition to buy everything that is necessary for this... I understand that... Now, suddenly, there are asylum seekers... accommodation and feeding. In fact, there are contradictions in this order. At the very beginning, we are talking about the fact that we will never let these people in at all, so let us press back. That is very good. I think that everyone wants it, all Latvian citizens who are concerned about their own security want it, all the more so those who currently live at the border want it. But then there is the point that states that suddenly someone has become an asylum seeker and that he has to be provided. So what is that now, colleagues? In my statement, I read that if it's really crazy, if everything flows across the edges, if we don't work out, then we'll have to live with them. And that's a mania! This is a lie, and I think colleagues from the National Union are also deceived by such a false move at the moment. What makes me very careful in all this story is that in fact, once again, thanks to all the so-called wolves, all the refugee entrepreneurs who in 2015 asked us to enrich our culture and life with young people... 160 signatories – they were those and, of course, politicians who voted in favour of the reception of refugees who made international commitments... And we're gonna have to look very carefully at whether we're going to be told by anybody that we don't now provide all these engineers and doctors, we don't host them, we don't host them, we don't feed them and we don't entertain them. And that will be the responsibility of both Mrs Golubeva, who then signed that letter and who fought for the need for refugees to help, and all those politicians who voted 'for' refugee reception quotas in the European Affairs Commission in 2015. Everyone will be responsible for this. I am calling, of course, for this order to be supported, but this order must definitely be adjusted. I understand that we have no other way out and the Saeima must reaffirm this order, but here again someone wants to earn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U35	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U36	Good afternoon, everybody! I am listening to the debate, and I have a number of questions for the debate. I hear here such decisive statements that it is clear that we are in hybrid war. So I have a question – when did it become clear to you? I hear you talk about a major threat. So I have a question: when did you realize that there was this major threat? Because if we look at our eastern border, which you are talking about now, it's almost like a walking courtyard, people here quietly go to our territory and nothing has been done. So all this time it has been just empty, sorry, embarrassing about this major threat and about these hybrid conditions that you are aware of. I will not ask you what has been done by the Minister for the Interior all the time instead of taking care of our security. This fragile power is not able to respond in a timely and adequate manner to any event. Whether it is a vaccination or now this migrant crisis - everywhere we see inadequate, late action. If you were aware that you were in a hybrid war situation, you should have thought about strengthening the borders – and yourself when you removed the Belarusian flag at the latest. After all, it was clear that there would be an answer! If you are in war conditions, you understand – you have been hit, you will be struck. And at the latest – when it happened in Lithuania! Well, there's a fool and a fool, and the rude should have been clear about what's going on and that's going to affect us, too. If we are talking about the current situation, then I think, perhaps, in addition to the measures envisaged in this decision, we should also attract our landguard, give our men the opportunity to gain experience in this situation, because it is this type of hybrid intervention (not important in the form of green or brown people who are trying to infiltrate our territory, not tank columns and battalions) that will be the most promising challenge that we might face when protecting our territory. If we are talking about protecting our territory, I call for a broader look at our information space as well. Today morning on social networks, I can see a message where... Europe’s... in Latvia... there is a devastation that shows the beautiful Latvian gold with a meadow-flowing, smiling, waiting for migrants. Well, as you think, seeing such a picture – it's like such an ad roll Welcome to Latvia! I think it would be very important here that we do, and we also explain... This informational prevention. It should be prevented for those people who are being deceived, who are trying to get to our territory, so that they understand that there will be something quite different here, because it is paradoxical in this situation, but it is obvious that the more decisive and tough we will act, the more those people who illegally try to enter the territory of Latvia, we will save from severe trials and suffering and disappointments. On the other hand, for those people who are already here, we should follow the appropriate legal rules. Taking care of them, I would urge the existing power to draw the appropriate conclusions. If you do not take proper care of those who protect our borders, you will have to take care of those who break these borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U37	Name to Member Igor Pimenov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U38	Hello, ladies! Ladies and gentlemen, Having a good understanding of the reasons for introducing the emergency situation, we must not, however, ignore the fact that we are working in the legal field of the European Union. Under the European Union Asylum Procedures Directive, Member States shall ensure that the person who has made an application for international protection has a real opportunity to lodge an application as soon as possible. In addition, the Court of Justice of the European Union stated in the case ‘European Commission v Hungary’ as follows: ‘A Member State may not unduly delay the moment when the person concerned has been given the opportunity to prepare his application for international protection. Member States are required to ensure that the right to prepare an application for international protection, including at borders, is effectively exercised by the persons concerned as soon as they express their wish to do so." It follows that anyone who will be at the border and tell the border guard that he is applying for asylum is immediately allowed to have the applicant's application for international protection examined. So I ask Minister Golubeva three questions. Will the requirements of the directive mentioned above be implemented and, if so, how will it be implemented in the legal framework of Latvia and in the activities of state institutions during an emergency? Please explain: If no applications for refugee status or subsidiary status are accepted in the departments of the State Border Guard and other institutions located in the territory where the emergency is declared, then for which there is competence to accept applications for refugee status or subsidiary status in the territory where the emergency is declared? And the third. Which activities are carried out by the government in the institutions of the European Union in order to harmonise the actions of the Republic of Latvia in circumstances where the number of illegal cross-border cases is rapidly increasing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U39	Thank you. Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U40	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear Members, honourable Members, As a whole, we could be attributed to some lightness, unwarranted confidence, failure to do so. Yes, we can do a grand, hard job, but to do so, too often there is not enough will, energy, or time. Such a mistake should absolutely not be allowed on the issue of the security of the external borders of Latvia, and therefore also of the European Union and NATO. Latvia, like Lithuania, has adopted this policy – the return of migrants to the border – in response to the hybrid war measures taken by the Minsk regime. It must also be understood that... Some Members have drawn attention to the fact that this practice may, however, violate human rights. But now Latvia's state border needs to be protected – with all legal means! – from any illegal crossing. And the country must defend itself against hybrid aggression. At the moment, our task is to show, first and foremost, that the current influx of migrants is too great to ensure that their rights are properly protected in accordance with international conventions and therefore also Latvia's obligations. Latvia cannot and cannot comply with the guidelines of these conventions regarding all the human rights of these people, because the influx is artificially created, consciously to overload our system and services. If several Members have already mentioned different case-laws, it should be said that Lithuania has also analysed and adopted these decisions in a very detailed manner, based on the case-law of European law. And here's the case of Morocco, the Spanish border or... It would also be Greece's border... Accordingly, such measures may be adopted by a Member State. This influx of migrants is not a natural wave of migration, it is an element of the hybrid attack of the Belarusian regime, and now we have taken the relevant decisions that effectively reduce the time for examining asylum procedures and allow certain rights to be limited when a country is declared in an emergency. In addition, we need to work to be able to answer the question: and what next? At present, the situation with Iraq is the most difficult, because Iraq does not have a readmission agreement with the European Union, but we can try to do so through a bilateral agreement on forced expulsion, in particular deportation. In this respect, there are several things that we should do here in parallel at the moment, while the emergency situation on the front line of our border guards has been announced, defending the territorial integrity of Latvia. That's, for the Foreign Service, for the Home Service, too... There is certainly international coordination... All these cases of violations, attempts to sturdy the border of Latvia... with various types of... must be duly recorded, as they say, must gather a set of evidence, and must be addressed accordingly to international institutions and bodies. It is clear that Lukashenko's regime is not sitting in the arm's lap; it's looking for other alternatives... direct, you can say, routes to countries where the potential could be re-... either in the form of tourism or study... persons in the form of students to arrive and, as a consequence, to carry out the same activities carried out with Iraqi nationals. In addition to the external border. I think we understand that the package is progressing with amendments to the law so that Latvia's external border with Belarus can be rapidly strengthened. I believe that we need to move faster here, given that the emergency situation has been announced by November. However, I believe that a special law would regulate all activities with border protection on the external borders of Latvia, the European Union and NATO... would be such a law, a special law, which dispels all rights and opportunities. This could speed up this procedure. I ask you to combine the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U41	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U42	It is also very positive that an operational team is being formed. It is clear that without the support of the National Armed Forces, there could be difficulties for the border guard to fully implement its functions. And given that we are not the only country affected by this crisis, such as Lithuania and Poland, I would, however, call here for a cross-border operational management group, because the speed of information exchange is the essence or nature of the operation of any service. And here we should not trust that we exchange information at the end of the day. Operational information should be exchanged in a much faster way and the establishment of such an operational management team in a cross-border form should be fully supported. As regards international coordination, I believe that the Baltic States and Poland as a whole should immediately appeal to the European Union, calling for extended sanctions against the Belarusian regime, the Lukashenko regime, specifically targeting companies linked to public bodies (tour operators, hotels, officials) because... Well, here absolutely is, as we say, to cut any financial amounts off. And the final one I would like (not to be heard) ... Mr. Cilevič was very worried... and Mr. Pimenov. While visiting Lithuania, I also received confirmation from the border guards of Lithuania that the vast majority of migrants who have crossed the border between Belarus and Lithuania in the last month... 65 to 70 percent... these, I understand, are the last data... has not at all requested asylum and does not request asylum. This means that these people are very well informed about the hierarchy of the rights of the European Union and are acting purposefully: they do not claim asylum here precisely because their destination is probably not the European Union (for example, Latvia, Lithuania); their aim is to get deeper into Europe, especially in Western countries. Consequently, I call for attention to be paid to these things, and it is necessary for the Ministry of the Interior to act accordingly, and for the Foreign Service to really be very active at the level of the European Union... and other international organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U43	Thank you. Colleagues, let's keep working without interruption. Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U44	Yes, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! I'm coming again. I did not intend to apply, but Mr Rancan's arguments make me speak again here. I am very sad – very sad! – that the New Conservative considers that entrepreneurs working in the field of tourism at the border, especially in Latgale... that traders working at the border are smugglers. If this is the understanding of the New Conservative Party, I am not surprised that they do not understand that this draft decision... The fact that some kind of entrepreneurship has been denied is not directly mentioned here, but... There will be a consequence of limiting the use of certain road sections; this will have a direct impact on agricultural workers. There will be consequences of restricting in some way the movement of people across borders; it will have a direct effect on what... I have already mentioned concrete examples. In the district of Kraslava, for example... You were there, but did you really talk to these people? Today, both entrepreneurs and representatives of municipalities meet and talk about these matters. This is what is happening today; there they already see that these problems are appearing that will affect both entrepreneurship and everyday conditions, daily life, which have not been taken into account when designing these rules. And it only shows that all these issues have been addressed on the one hand only; I have already mentioned this in my speech and I have also called for these issues, which are important for citizens, including the issue of informing citizens. Everyone is talking about an emergency, but does it explain to the citizens themselves what is happening in these areas? Just just started to explain something to the local authorities. Colleagues, this is not normal! And that is why I still believe that this draft regulation is very poorly prepared and will need to be justified in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U45	Thank you. Name to Member Alexander Kirštein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U46	Dear President, I also ask for the time of the debate to be brought together.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U47	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U48	Honourable Members! To blame Belarus, I think that there is no point here, because it is clear that Belarus has already lost its independence and rather Russia, which is testing NATO's ability to protect our borders, the borders of NATO countries. And we must honestly say that we have no limits and that we cannot protect anything; that suddenly we discovered that nothing has been done in 30 years. I hope that it will be investigated who is to blame for it and where the money has been spent. That's one. Second. Of course, the questioning of terrorists, fighters must be carried out strictly and must be rejected... But I'm very concerned about this question – what do we do with women and children? How do we react to them? And the third question is whether there is a karma as such or, more rightly, what is the role of Latvia in creating refugee flows in Iraq. So that we do not repeat these mistakes, and so that we do not find future flows of refugees in the near future. And here I am looking at the debate on the extraordinary session of 19 March 2003 on international participation in the disarmament of Iraq... It's a week before the invasion on 20 March in Iraq... And I heard here – Mr. Feldman said... and mentioned the civilised Europe... So what is the role of civilised Europe? I'll remind you a little bit. It was 19 March... It's two days after the UN Security Council put a veto on... in particular Germany’s and France’s objections... Following the invasion of Iraq, that is, the military invasion of Iraq organised by the Bush Junior Government together with the Blair Government, the British Government, at that time... And the situation was extremely interesting. So: the UN Security Council did not support it, the major countries of the European Union, apart from the United Kingdom, did not support it, and the United States had to find satellites... Let's not say maybe to America, but just... specifically, there would be Bush Administration... In this case, satellites should have been found that support all these measures and the destruction of Iraq. And it is extremely interesting that in those debates, I am looking at, the same people who are active in politics today - Mr. Kariņš, Mr. Jaunupas, Kalniete (now in the European Parliament), Kirštein, Mr. Cilevičs... a whole row of others. The President of Latvia was Vaira Vike-Freiberga. Member Karin said that we should participate in a military operation, despite the fact that the UN Charter prohibits attacking another UN country if it has not specifically attacked anyone. He said that a dictatorship that can use chemical and biological weapons must be thrown away. And that's why we have to join this coalition. So, notice – not using weapons, biological, chemical, but theoretically can be used. Well, of course, the Foreign Minister, Sandra Kalniete, was the most prominent – she named and listed all European politicians... And America calls on him not to listen to Carter and former Secretary of State, Madeleen Olbright, to compare Hussein with Hitler and, of course, to Latvia participate in a military operation, because there is a dictator there. The fact that dictators may be in North Korea, Cuba, Belarus, Somalia, Iran, Yemen, Turkmenistan - this is Turkmenbashi - does not, of course, worry anyone. Why did we not support, for example, the invasion in Iran? Because there are 80 million. But there are only 22 million people in Iraq, half of whom are children, but there are plenty of oil deposits, well! Jimmy Carter says that from the point of view of international law... that attacking the UN state is a great mistake because he had learned somewhere that the first blow is intended to give Baghdad and other cities, to put on about three thousand bombs, rockets and thus create a moment of shock, paralyze resistance. The writer Gundega Repše was very precise in calling... said that a couple of soldiers, hardworking Latvian poppers speak in the name of the people, promises and swears, are asking for and are fighting to destroy one country. France's President Shirak says that the Baltic states are not using the opportunity to obey. I'm looking here, too, it's interesting... The Swedish President, Pashon, says that it will be a very big mistake. Well, Schroeder was probably a Russian friend, as we say, so I won't tolerate Schroeder's saying at all. George Bush warns his father, who says that his son's government chose to reduce the role of society, while military power was to overestimate. And unlike Kuwait, where there were clear goals... he calls, however, for the last moment to reflect on and not to engage in the realisation of these millions' objectives. And only Member Cilevič said that the US would leave, the country would be destroyed. What will happen, and who will answer? Europeans will respond. As Mr Feldman said, civilised Europe will respond. And those words were fulfilled. What is the current situation in Iraq? Gross domestic product is about half of what was at Hussein's time. Electricity works on average for five hours a day, the water supply and sewerage rarely work. Civil war is still taking place in the country between Shiite and Sunny, acts of terrorism, and a branch office in Al Qaeda Iraq operating in full swing. And all this was created by the parts of civilised Europe, including Latvia! Finally, I would like to say that. I call on you to vote in favour of this project... the draft decision. That's very good, I think. That's the first thing I want to say. Second. I should think to Mr Rancán about setting up an investigative commission. To find out why we've only had shrubs and a tag in 30 years and where the money remains, and who has organized it and will respond to it. And the last one. So we should send women and children to Blair's homeland – to Britain, because if the prosperity does not come to those to whom it was promised, but instead we have introduced destruction and collapse, then the victims should go where it is.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U49	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Kirstein. The combined times of debate are too long. Name to Member Nikolai Cabanov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U50	Hello, fellow Members! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Please combine speaking time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U51	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U52	It was very interesting for me today to hear what the Minister for the Interior and the Chairman of the Commission said, but unfortunately I did not find him to speak anything other than a repetition of the document. I read it carefully before the sitting. My wish would be to learn more about the news that the Minister and the Chairman of the Commission learned there – in Latgale. I mean, I'd be interested, let's say that, refugee personalities. Over the course of several days, perhaps our responsible services documented some of these immigrants and at least learned what nationality they belong to, or whether they really were. There are rumours that some refugees enter Latvia completely without documents because they were taken away at the border of the opposite country. If so, there could be people from Syria, from Afghanistan, even from Africa, among those who came to Latvia. And it is unlikely that Latvia will now be able to bring people back home from Afghanistan, which is burning in civil war, from which both NATO troops and the Latvian contingent have recently left. It is a pity that we are there without information and only fed with general phrases on border protection – and so on, and so on. There is, of course, a regime of secrecy, and the border guard also states that there will be restrictions on the tolerance of the media. And we won't really know what's going on in the border, what they're about people and under what conditions they're accommodated. I would like to say to those colleagues who want to send refugees to Blair or elsewhere that Latvia is actually the first country in the European Union to which they came, and there is no difference in fact whether or not it was through Lukashenko; we are on the first line of the front, and we are subject to the general rules that we must speak and work with these people. I strongly object to the statements that these people might be terrorists, to be Islamic fundamentalists. What did I see when watching videos from Lithuanian camps or short stories from Latvia? It seems to me that, rather, they are the same people as we were 20 years ago when we were travelling to the European Union after work, under better living conditions. None of the Members of the Saeima now want to talk about the fall of the Berlin Wall, when people who have lived in an undeveloped and unfreed regime for a long time suddenly... in fact crossed the border illegally and went to the West. The same thing is now being done by the Iraqis and the people of other countries. There is a natural desire for people to live in a better world. And now we ourselves, who for years... Now we do something like that, we look at it from the point of view of such a civil racist. I think it is unacceptable – with such actually xenophobic views, look at similar people. Why do I say they're similar? Because I myself was in Iraq several years ago, just after its release from Saddam Hussein. I was also in Iraq in Kurdistan, where cities such as Suleimania and Erbila are located. It is from these airports that Iraqi aircraft - civil aircraft - are now flying to Belarus. This also indicates that the level of development in these regions is high enough if they can afford to maintain civil aviation and send planes. Currently, Iraq has exported its fellow citizens from Belarus. And it seems to me that in the short term this crisis will be naturally regulated, namely that people from Iraq no longer travel to Belarus, and so there are not enough people to maintain this artificial pressure on Latvia and Lithuania. I also think that neighbouring countries had a political purpose to avenge Vilnius and Riga for their activities in advance. I do not support this kind of action from Minsk, but I also think that we do not need to make xenophobic decisions and do so in a way that does not embarrass us around the world. Thank you for your attention. I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U53	The name to Member Boris Cilevič for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U54	Thank you, President. Yes, thank you to Mr Kirstein for his reminder. This is another proof that sometimes what the opposition said would be worth listening to, wouldn't it? Dear Mr. Rancán! Well, I'm sorry... You're a lawyer. It is not the case that the announcement of an emergency situation automatically relieves States of all obligations under the Convention. Article 3 - which I mentioned - is one of the so-called non-derogable articles, i.e. those which cannot be subject to reservations and which must also be fulfilled during an emergency. And it is precisely the possible infringement of Article 3. So if you, as a lawyer or as your experts, can really legally justify precisely why this is not the case, I really would like to see and hear this analysis. Mr Cole, I agree with you for the most part. Much of what you said is fully true and correct. And I had the impression that you actually admitted that, yes, we had violated our commitments. But it's not normal! If, for some reason, we are not prepared to fulfil our international obligations, then either we must withdraw from the relevant conventions or propose a revision of these conventions. It is simple to find that, yes, we have certain commitments in the field of human rights, but we are not going to do them – that is, in my view, unacceptable. Colleagues, this is not just about legal fines, it is about values. We repeat several times: there is democracy in Latvia. Then let us prove it not only in words but also in deeds! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U55	Name to Member Martin Stein.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U56	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Colleagues! I thank colleagues for their support and arguments regarding the approval of the draft decision on the announcement of an emergency. I would like to provide information on a number of things that have been said. Yesterday, during the visit by the Saeima Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Saeima President and the Minister of the Interior, a number of questions were answered and an action plan was outlined to strengthen our country's border. Proposals for necessary changes to the regulatory enactments were also outlined, proposals for faster establishment of the border were made at the Ministry of the Interior; they have already been prepared and will be directed to the government next week, and then they will be transferred to the Saeima. And the need to rapidly build a strong and modern border was clearly indicated as a priority. The necessary funding has also been identified, project changes have been harmonised and the government has already supported the financial means to set up the border. And changes to legislation, as I have already mentioned, have been designed and coordinated at ministerial level. There is also intensive work to ensure both the long-term construction of the border and the... Interim solution. The Minister has also given the Ministry of the Interior the task of assessing more stringent penalties for those who engage in illegal displacement schemes. I would also like to mention that coordination work is currently taking place both at the level of the Baltic States and at European level, because the crisis caused by this migration is no longer just a question for Lithuania, Latvia and Poland, but a crisis for Europe as a whole. And this is the work of the month, not the work of the last week. For several weeks the State Border Guard has been strengthened by both the National Armed Forces and the State Police, and the additional forces in terms of number of people as well as technical units have already been counted in several hundred. Yesterday, a ministerial meeting was held with representatives of local governments, which I regard as successful and cooperative. Answers were received to the questions raised. And such a meeting took place in advance as well. The Ministry of the Interior has established the Emergency Operational Management Centre, which will continue to look at the issues outlined today. And today's first meeting is already taking place. Thank you to those colleagues who outlined the issues, they will certainly be discussed at the Operational Management Centre, which also includes representatives of all municipalities. I would also like to mention that communication specialists from the ministry and services, as well as municipalities, have already formed their own group and have already met yesterday, and will continue to meet to prepare information for dissemination to both local government officials and residents. As the Head of the State Border Guard said yesterday, the border guard promises not to expose the vulnerable person to the danger of life. The Minister and the Management of the State Border Guard repeatedly stressed that specific and individual situations of specific border offenders will be examined at the border. And if people, especially from the most vulnerable groups – children, elderly people – are not able to be safe (their health and life are safe!) to hold them on the border line or return them to Belarus, then they may be detained on the territory of Latvia. And I would also remind you that the emergency has been declared in a particular territory, not throughout the country. With regard to finance and real costs, I would like to address the concerns of all those involved, including municipalities, without having to wait for six months. Once the actual costs are incurred, the Ministry will act and guide the government's demand for funds, and with reference to the cost... the cost recovery process is specified in the order. I would also like to say a lot of thanks, already right now! – all the citizens who are already helping and providing support to the State Border Guard, who admitted yesterday that there are employees working with the citizens on a daily basis, not only during the crisis, and this cooperation will be continued. Thank you to all non-governmental organisations and volunteers involved in mitigating the effects of the crisis. And, of course, thank you to all the services that are currently working at the border under intense conditions and protecting our country's borders. I call on the Saeima to support this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U57	Thank you. The name to Member Igor Pimenov for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U58	Good afternoon! I ask Ministers Golubeva to answer my questions. They were not rhetorical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U59	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U60	Dear colleagues, Talking about serious things, it is not too much to ask – first of all – some questions. The first would be: is the problem of illegal immigrants a new problem? I think the answer is clear. This has been a problem for several years. And so different solutions have been searched and found. And the search for solutions continues. The second question is, why did it develop? Until now, there were no such incidents on the Latvian-Belarusian border. What makes us talk today about declaring an emergency? I think there have been no such cases so far. And that's also why so much attention has been paid so far to strengthening the border. There are also a number of other issues here, because our relationship, our national relationship, and our relationship with Belarus went through many different stages – from the fact that we called (not for the first time!) Lukashenko as the last European dictator, and finally, we invited this dictator on a country visit to Latvia by this government. Such inconsistency also gives rise to some concern about building relations for the future. There are also other issues that have been discussed in today's debate, on the legal consequences and on everything else. But the main question is whether there is a real state of emergency on the Latvian-Belarusian border. Undoubtedly, it is beginning to emerge if we compare the situation, to say Italy, Spain and other countries of the European Union, where refugee flows were disproportionately higher than they are. But... This situation is emerging, and the prevention of emergency regimes in three regions and in the city is one of the steps that can mitigate this problem. I will therefore personally support this decision. But the question is: does this decision solve their problem in general and to the end? I don't think so. It only freezes this problem for the three months in which this regime operates. This means that within three months all the other things that have been debated today must also be considered, because this first step is actually only a halfway and does not solve all the problems that have been talked about today – from war to the fight against dictatorial regimes. Here is a substance for reflection for all, including above all, I think, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because there is much done here that, to be honest, does not honor either Latvia or the Latvian Government. I call for support for this decision, but nevertheless for strong thought to be given to what will be next and what steps will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U61	Thank you. The name to the Member, Maris Mozhville, for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U62	Thank you. I will call on Mr Rancana to hold a return meeting in this area in two weeks' time, where an emergency situation is announced, in order to get to know really the things and problems faced by both local authorities and border guards following the introduction of this regime. I would like to express my thanks - which I did not say in the first part of the speech - to our Members in the Council of Europe, who are very actively involved in this problem, especially to Nil Usakov, who has even sent a visual message on social networks... what the border should look like. Thank him for that. The rest of you do it pretty well... such a known partisan fight... and apparently very intensively stands on the border – shoulder to shoulder with border guards. Finally, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to those border guards who, with great enthusiasm, still defend us, defend the border, even though their working conditions can now want better, they can want much more modern. I am very grateful to all the border guards and people involved: thank you for what you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U63	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U64	When we listen to this debate, it is unfortunate to conclude that those political forces who are now responsible for the internal security of our country, for the security of our borders, are unable to properly assess the current situation. I really want to ask, What story do you live in? To help you get out of this fairy tale, I call... above all, I am already addressing colleagues in the coalition who appreciate this situation more adequately... explain what is actually happening. And at the same time, try to understand that what is happening at the moment – these are only gentle touches compared to what is threatening in the future. Look at the regions from which these people come – what is happening there, what changes are happening there! It is expected – I think it is not too long to ask – that not thousands, but tens of thousands, will be located at our border, hundreds of thousands of people with this goal – to cross this border. There is an urgent need for a targeted and serious strengthening of our country's eastern border. If we don't start doing it at least now or at an impact stage, there will be a very dramatic situation that we will expect. That's one thing. The second thing I would really like to mention is that in this debate, Alexander Kirstein shared his past experience of these double standards. And in this respect, I call on my fellow Members... As far as Belarus is concerned, we were all able to see clearly that the public, politicians, were opposed to human rights violations against journalists when power in Belarus repressed journalists. I hope that you will now express the same attitude against what is happening in Latvia, namely, that the current regime of power is now repressing journalists (in particular, Lato Lapsa and Liepaja) about the fact that they are going to publish information that would be displeasing to power. I expect there will be no double standards here. Not just migrants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U65	Thank you. Colleagues, I am closing the debate. Member Juris Rancāns is on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U66	Yeah, colleagues. It's very short. Thank you for the debate. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that... and once again to Mr Valaiņa to explain this order a little bit. In particular, I would like to clarify: at the border, life will continue at the usual rhythm, no paths are to be closed. I do not know how this suspension of illegal immigration could hinder any business. It is more likely that on the contrary: if we have additional powers diverted there and we are fighting this matter, more people are becoming at the border and entrepreneurs would rather be better off from it. The restrictions are specific; no restrictions... not specified and, if they were to be identified, they should be ordered. And I don't see any need to limit any more – protect the god! – Entrepreneurship... apart from what I have already referred to, which cannot be considered as business in a legal sense. Mr. Cilevič. Once again... We're going round again. I tell you that every democracy, including Latvia, must be able to defend itself against hybrid attacks. You take one very narrow article and try to explain that everything else is irrelevant and that only one article is important. And in this respect, you are wrong. Once again, when Latvia accedes to any convention and international treaty, there are mechanisms, ways in which the country may, for its defence purposes, waive certain points in an emergency. And if you say “as a lawyer” that there should be an additional evaluation, and you – in person! – you see a huge inconsistency here, then I would like to say to you: yes, this process can be assessed, because these commitments state that even if we refuse to fulfil any international obligations, there are still these European courts... control mechanism. Now to say that the European Court will clearly stand on Lukashenko's side in support of his "right" (footsteps)... There is no such right – to bring about a migration crisis and to destabilise the situation to some extent. There is no such right for our neighbours. So that, Mr Cilevičs, I am calling for a condemnation of the inhuman activities of the Belarusian regime: giving in to hope, calling these people to themselves and pointing out that they will now have the opportunity to cross the borders of the European Union illegally. I am calling for a real condemnation of this action... and focus more... including through your channels... this bad behaviour on the part of Belarus. So, colleagues, I'm all right at this point. I call on you to support the specific draft decision drawn up by the Commission on the declaration of an emergency situation at the border.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-08-12-PT13-2289-U67	Thank you to the rapporteur. However, I call on Mr Rancāns to report on behalf of the Commission – to tell about what was discussed in the Commission (yes, indeed – on these issues was also debated by the Commission at the last sitting), but not on its own behalf, but on behalf of the Commission. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the announcement of the emergency situation! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The decision has been taken. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. It's time for notifications. On 9 August, our fellow Member Viktors Valainis celebrated the half-round anniversary, and today's birthday is celebrated by our colleague Edgars Tavars, and we welcome them. Thank you. And the registration of Members. Registration is over. I'm closing the meeting.
