ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U1	Hello, honourable Members! Let's start the third remote emergency sitting on 20 May this year. On the agenda - examination of the draft law. Draft Law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” (No. 1066/Lp13), first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Edwin Šnore.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U2	Hello, dear colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption at first reading supported the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 communicable Management Law”, which provides for the delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to establish principles for the use of intensive therapy resources during the Covid-19 pandemic. I call for support to be given to this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U3	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Twelve Members - Znotiņš, Feldman, Muižniece, Riekstins, Budrik, Jušas, Cielen, Gunna, Medne, Zālīte-Gross and others - ask for this draft law to be declared urgent. So we will have to vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” as urgent! Please, let's vote! About - 28, against - 40, abstaining - 8. The draft law is not declared urgent. The Members in the debate have not applied. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please, let's vote! For -69, for -2 and for -3. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U4	The deadline for proposals is 25 May this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U5	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 25 May this year. Go on. Report by the Saeima Bureau on the draft law submitted. The Presidium of the Saeima proposes the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Disease Management Act” presented by the Member Taipara, Kučinska, Dūklav, Bergmanis, Plant, Creuse, Many, Vucanas and Valaiņa (No. 1077/Lp13) to transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption and to designate it as the Commission responsible. ‘ For” applied to speak Member Edgars Tavars.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U6	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! Speaker of the Saeima! By contacting the Hockey Federation of Latvia and the organizers of this event, we have submitted this bill so that this one-time event, which is a global event (this event took place 15 years ago in Latvia), can be visited to the public with all the highest safety requirements. Not the same as in Eurovision (we see what is happening in Rotterdam, where there are crowds of people without masks, shoulder to shoulder), but the safe epidemiological requirements that... had prepared and submitted a proposal to the organizers of this championship. The right to attend this sporting event is foreseen if: the person has vaccinated and can prove it; the person can prove that he is ill; that he has been infected but is no longer present; the person can present a reliable test within the last 48 hours. Colleagues, we will support this draft law so that this event will take place in Latvia with viewers, respecting all security... highest safety standards for Latvia to maintain its face at international and global level; to be able to watch this event safely! Once again, I would also like to thank the fellow Members from other groups - from the New Conservative Group, from the Group's CPV LV and from the Group's SASKAN - as well as the independent Members who supported this initiative, so that such a draft law can reach the committee responsible as soon as possible and the Commission will move this issue forward, with urgency, so as not to hesitate, so that the organisers of the event can quickly prepare personalised tickets for those who will be able to attend the event safely. Please vote in favour! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U7	“Pret” has applied to speak by Ilmārs Dūritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U8	Good evening, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I call for this draft law not to be supported. In my opinion, this hastyly been presented. We are not currently in a situation where we can ensure... And actually... to be able to visit these sports games in person. I'll tell you why. First. The idea of testing -- yes, that idea could be, but... fast... Well, by questioning... Also, whether the laboratories... and in fact, knowing the capacity of our laboratories, there are strong doubts as to whether the laboratories will have the capacity in addition to... Every day... 18... and almost 20... a few days... in the case of these suspicious cases, a further very large number of tests shall be carried out. So, firstly, there is a great risk that, even if we make such a decision, the capacity of the laboratories will not allow anyone who wants to carry out this test. Secondly. On vaccination and on proof of the fact of vaccination. The process is just being prepared, and at this stage there is a lot of uncertainty as to how people will be able to prove the fact of vaccination in the coming days, say, in a credible and clear way. So, if we're going to June 1st... And then - also on 15 June (this is a green international certificate)... but it also requires a... preparatory work is ongoing and takes time to do so. In my opinion, this draft law is very hasty; it can, in fact, destabilise our current epidemiological situation. I would like to remind my colleagues that we have 630 co-patients in hospital today and that these patients in hospital are not falling significantly, and that it is young people who are seriously ill... background. We have 76 people with serious illness, who are very hard basically. And these 630 with a severe illness going on... which is essentially stationary. We have 11 dead today. I understand that we want to enjoy sports games, but we can also enjoy them remotely on television. It seems to me that our television channels and media have done a great deal to enable this championship to be displayed very well at a distance to citizens. They are preparing for this. I call, colleagues, not to be subject to such a moment's weakness, and I would like to say so quite... simple or even inexpensive, as if for a short time... such a appealing flower to improve or brighten your political image in the short term... I call on you not to be submissive to this temptation. This is, of course, understandable for the members of the opposition, but I think... and I call on the coalition Members to be united, to respect and trust our own elected government, the Cabinet of Ministers, its members, to trust and to trust experts and not to support such hasty proposals for changes to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U9	Thank you. One Member has spoken 'for', one Member has spoken 'no'. We will vote in favour of the commission responsible for the draft law. Please call me! Vote on the draft law “Amendment to the Covid-19 Law on the Management of communicable Diseases” (No. 1077/Lp13) transfer to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, making it a responsible commission! Please, let's vote! For - 51, for - 36, for - 1. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Report by the Saeima Bureau on an own-initiative proposal submitted. Dear colleagues, Members Gatis Eglitis, Krišjānis Feldmans, Reinis Znotiņš, Sandis Riekstins, Evita Zālīte–Grosa, Uldis Budriķis, Anita Muižniece, Juris Juris Juris Jurāšs, Jānis Cielēns and Normunds Gunna have submitted their own proposal – the draft decision “On the process of men with viewers in the world championship in 2021”. Are Members opposed to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting? Members have reservations. We must therefore vote in favour of putting this own-initiative proposal on the agenda for the next sitting. One Member may speak in favour, one against and one against, on the agenda of the next ordinary sitting. So Members do not want to talk about or against... Mr Gobzem wants to speak. Mr. Gobzem, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U10	Good afternoon, everybody! I'll talk...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U11	Mr. Gobzem, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U12	I will talk about it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U13	So "for" has applied to speak to Aldis Gobzems.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U14	I will say 'yes', because if a question is on the agenda, then it needs to be considered. I will say 'for' because it is clear that it is necessary not only for the hockey championship, but for every other event to happen to people in person. I will then, however, call for this draft decision to be voted against, because I believe that the draft decision is not well prepared. I would like to say that we must end all this limitation. Now it's some crazy thing! Bob Hartley, the main coach of the Latvian hockey team, recently won Gagarin's Cup in KHL hockey League, where thousands of people attended all the games. I'm looking at Mr. Hartley: he's keeping his health clean - still. I allow us to have this aperture, where that dangerous ends at the border - our eastern border... That there it ends... should be over. We should also look at statistics and compare them with other years. I think in 2018... I think we had a more dangerous year, but we were then all summer... There's both a hockey and something on the shore of drinking -- everything was. You have to stop your education, you have to let people live! And segregation should not be allowed either. That is why I will vote against. What's going on? What vaccines? Or, what kind of test do they do? Sweden has just given up PCR tests, you can read it. Because there's the results... A month may or may not be there. All of you, too. But for the vaccinated. You read what Perevoschikov said (at yesterday's time)? That you can be vaccinated, but you can get sick too. So, now you've been vaccinated, and then you're sick, and then you go to visit something, and then you let someone down. I don't think we should make segregation. I think people who have not been vaccinated... they don't have to walk with the yellow star of David! It seems to me that what is happening at the moment not only in Latvia, but... Either, in principle, under the influence of all of their globalists, it is a huge crime. It is a crime against humanity. It is already comparable to the time of the Gestapo. This is comparable to what the Jews did. The slow spirit is already going to that side: to make an absolute segregation in society, to divide society into two parts, to impose... Finally, to impose medical manipulation on people who do not need it. I'm okay. For example, I'm healthy. Why Do I Have to Spy? Why?Oh, no, no, no, I've met thousands of people in the past year, walked without masks, washed my hands, and everything with my health has been fine because my health is not dependent on pharmaceuticals; my health depends on how I think I feel, how much I do sports and all other activities. Let children exercise, let them go to school! What is happening now in Latvia is a crime against the Latvian people. And let - everyone be allowed - go to hockey, enjoy hockey, if already the world championship takes place in Latvia. Bob Hartley came from Russia in a healthy and healthy way - without mask, without restrictions, with all the tributaries... I think he will be better able to train the Latvian sample here, in Latvia. Stop this division in vaccinees and unvaccinated ones! It's criminal. Legally criminal. The influenza will now all have to be vaccinated... This is a more serious flu. And we, the whole, have to answer for the fact that someone is, I'm sorry, too lazy and too obese?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Then everyone must start playing sports, let them do sports and make them do sports. You have to get healthier, you have to drink less. I, too, reject plastering so that I don't get sick. And I call everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-20-PT13-2254-U15	Colleagues, we have to decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. Please call me! We will vote for the inclusion of the draft decision on the process of the 2021 World Championship in the hockey with viewers on the agenda of the next session! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It is therefore decided to place the draft decision on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. Dear colleagues, The agenda of this sitting has been examined. The questions that have been tabled by Members. Members Zarins, Agešins, Tutins, Krišāns and Rubiks have submitted the question “On the situation in the health care system and public health in Latvia”, which we submit to the Minister of Health of the Member States Zarins, Agešins, Tutins, Krišāns and Rubiks the question “On your inability to justify the proposed benefits for people vaccinated with Covid-19 vaccine and measures to limit infection with Covid-19” that we submit to the Minister of Health for their response. And Members Zarins, Agešin, Rubiks, Orlovs and Clementyev have asked the question ‘On advertising the vaccination campaign environment’. We also hand it over to the Minister for Health to respond. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Dear colleagues, The agenda for today's fourth remote emergency session will be discussed at 17.35 a.m. So we're going on at 17.35. I closed the third remote emergency sitting on 20 May this year.
