ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U1	Honourable Members! We will continue to discuss the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 16 June. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, second reading. And so the debate on 5. - the proposal tabled by Member Stepanenko. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U2	Yes, welcome to everyone! I hope that all Members are up on their computers and that we can continue. I had applied for this debate, reflecting on what was heard in connection with this proposal. So one of the arguments that was raised about why this proposal on facilitating children has not been accepted - because it is technically impossible to implement it, it is not manageable. Here I would point out that, in fact, this is not really the case as an argument, and it is more like a reservation. Why? Perhaps those who tried to find such a reservation did not know what the AVIS was. AVIS - it is a easing single information system. A few weeks ago, in the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, we once approved a draft law on this system. And it is planned that this system will be put in place and will become operational in the course of this year. In fact, this is already the case, it has already been built up to a large extent, such a system actually works. And we even know who created it. However, there are contracts already in place, some one million are to be spent on it for some time. The performer with whom the contract has been concluded will be the one who makes us all these stories... in medicine with vaccination, although the contract will be concluded with this company, but in reality there will be other performers. That is, we see that the best construction traditions are being taken over to the IT sector, where generals, near-to-power power are being formed, who will receive all kinds of orders for all systems, and there will be others who will do all this. So what will this system do? The introduction of AVIS would ensure the integration of different types and areas of relief into this single system and could attract economic operators as providers of relief. So not only the state will be able to make any discounts... this system monitors and integrates into itself, but also the facilitations and programs of individual economic operators. The principle would also ensure interaction, transparency and cooperation between public administration and the private sector at national level. So there is a technical solution to this. The question is: why is this proposal, which is really important in nature, rejected? Here I would like to hear from the rapporteur a reasoned justification for all this or from those who are ready to vote against this proposal today. I invite you to apply for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U3	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U4	Colleagues, as our colleague Ramona Petraviča has already pointed out, there are no obstacles to the payment of such a benefit, because it is possible to figure out different solutions and, as Mr Zarins pointed out, there is a system. But if we are talking about the whole, about the fact that those 24 or 30 million that have been calculated for this event, and which in no way the Ministry of Reira wants to grant, maybe think about the fact that on behalf of our future you could decide a little bit about this step, because those students who are now receiving various funny orders from universities in the summer, such as the RSU rector's order, that the students will either have to pay for the tests themselves or have to be vaccinated. If we imagine students who are unable to vaccinate because of various circumstances, then quite a small amount will come together to carry out these tests every 72 hours. Well, maybe you're going to give students 500 euros so that at least the first stage they're going to have enough money for litigation, because all these other strange rectors have money for you, because we see how much money is devoted to university pay. Now, have mercy on students, let them study and let them get that money to do something that really relates to their right to study if you don't understand it differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U5	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U6	Hello, dear colleagues! Incoming viewers! My colleague, Ramona Petraviča, made it very clear that these solutions are, and are, possible. The biggest problem is whether you want to. Well, of course, we've seen from the Ministry of Education and Science, from the party that represents... from the New Conservative Party, how much they will actively fight, will represent... will represent students, but there is one big, evil bull who is Mr. Reira from the Ministry of Finance who will never give money. And only the New Unity is to blame for him, but we... as young people we will fight and do. Well then maybe I would call on the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, Mrs Grossa: come and reason why not, or which are the reasons why we cannot help and support students, or, well, then Iveta... then maybe you can report, because I didn't get these arguments from the Commission. And this proposal is to be welcomed. And now students have gone on holiday and everyone goes somewhere to earn, because students watch if they now have to start paying for the tests in the autumn, we get the students down again in such an exclusion situation. So, colleagues, I am calling for support, and this proposal is really good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U7	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U8	Good morning, honourable President. Colleagues! On behalf of the Commission, I can say that this was a matter of political resolution. The arguments put forward by each Member from the Commission were individual and, as a result, this proposal was not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U9	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 5. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 46, for - 8. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U10	Proposal No 6 received from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is planned to express Article 64 of the Law in the following wording: “The State Social Insurance Agency shall, without application of a person until 31 March 2021, pay aid to a person who has been granted a child care allowance, family state benefit, a supplement to a family state allowance for a disabled child or who is entitled to a family state allowance for a child who, after reaching the age of 18 years, has been subject to a disability with a cause - illness from childhood, but until 31 July 2021 - to a person who has been provided with an adult who has not attained the age of 24 years, if it has acquired general, vocational or higher education.” The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U11	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U12	Colleagues! I understand, of course, that with the ruling coalition, some of us have a desire to despise the proposals of the opposition, especially if you are the rapporteur and your name is the last, but perhaps yet we could call on the rapporteur - as we have done in the case of Mrs Benhen-Beeken, for fuel - so that, for example, this kind of conduct by the Saeima would not be a common practice. If we are talking about this proposal, I have, of course, mentioned that this proposal is linked to the previous one and sets out the arrangements under which these benefits should be paid, and also the period from which it should be carried out. But here's a little bit about the total. We know that money has been pulled out, at least what we know, at the moment it is five million studies that have not really gone by students who have gone by various Infectologists, who now say that, you know, you're raining today because you've brought bad gifts to the gods. That's why it's raining, but that's why your harvest's gone. And that's about the style in which we see the way in which Latvian society is treated by fed infectiouss. We are talking about Ug Dumpi, who has participated in these studies, which at the end of the day turned out to be totally useless. We can see that there is simply a laughing about people. Every time some results show (I don't know where they come from), people are guilty, society is guilty, society has simply brought too little gifts to their gods. So it's a bad thing to do if we're turning it over to this day. And now, of course, we need to sacrifice our children. That's why these gods don't be angry. It is about the level at which all this clique currently works, which has taken hostages in Latvian society. The fact that those 500 euros were provided to children with such a real... with the idea that EUR 500 will be able to buy everything: both to pay camps, to buy new computers, and to pay bills that the parents could not pay because they lost their jobs. Now, of course, the elections are over, the new Conservative Party has become a mega... Not a mega obedient, there's no more... no more speeches from the New Conservative Party, no more voices, no more wants anything, everything calms down, because everyone has got their positions. This is the amazing way in which our ruling clique works at all. Awesome shame! If we're talking about money... for the totality, that it is a pity to devote some million to our young people who are now, as I said, facing an abnormally difficult choice... In order for them to continue their training, they need to undergo medical treatment, otherwise they will not be able to do so, otherwise they will have to spend every 72 hours on tests. This is how you treat our future; that is how you treat our science too, because science, in your view, is re-research of cats, cucumber cutting research, for which you do not regret money, because there are, of course, your people placed so that they can then be obedient. This is how you see both science and the future. Abnormally corrupt and rotten scheme! Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U13	The name of Member Eric Pucen.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U14	Hello, fellow Members, again! The previous vote clearly demonstrated both the National Alliance, the New Conservative Party and the New Unity and Development/About! That's... hypocrisy, because money in all other means... but who are people, there is no money. Also, rapporteur, this is a little bit of a sign... it was their political determination. Others divorced to serve power, others to serve the coalition, and of course we see that these four parties separated from supporting students. It is very good that this political solution appears now, the public sees it: they are watching, and they will also appreciate it. It is a pity that this proposal has not been supported, but we will continue to work on the next proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U15	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U16	On behalf of the Commission, I can only remind you that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U17	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 46, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U18	Proposal No 7 has also been received from Member Julia Stepanenko. It is planned to supplement the law with a new separate article by the following wording: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall prepare and submit to the Saeima, within one working day from the date of entry into force of these amendments, the necessary amendments to the laws and regulations postponing the obligation to make minimum social insurance contributions for each person covered by social insurance until 1 July 2022.” The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U19	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U20	Dear colleagues, This is probably already an eighth or 15th attempt to encourage the ruling coalition to vote on the failure of this tax reform. Of course, this is about the social contributions that we are talking about to you every Thursday, thanks also to the opposition colleagues who persevere in trying to come forward with this proposal in the hope of your good faith. And, of course, it is clear that the trend is rather strange, because before the municipal elections there were various promises, that indeed, indeed, we are going to cancel these obligations right now, because it was really a mistake; someone admitted at one point and then no longer - no. Complete silence, sweet sleep and absolute indifference. In the Commission yesterday there were accusations from the Law Office that, behold, within one working day, the Cabinet of Ministers will not be able to make the necessary amendments to regulatory enactments, it is necessary to give mercy and give a little more time. I do not agree with the fact that, in order to make the necessary amendments to the legislation, it is necessary to actually amend one line in the law, but if we see that the opposition proposals for changing this one line are not supported by the law, then it may be that it is some editorial fault, maybe the opposition has simply been wrong in the text, maybe something does not like, perhaps there are more spaces between the letters to be put or some other points, comma. It doesn't matter... We therefore trust this task for the government, so that the government itself makes this difficult sentence on the transfer of social contributions to the next year. One working day... one working day is completely sufficient to do so. We believe that if the already ruling coalition talked about this before the municipal elections, then perhaps in some places the drafts have remained with such proposals. There will be no problem now with putting such a proposal on the table by voting and sending it to the Saeima. Now there's no need for more than one working day. It is, of course, necessary... It is a political solution that is necessary, it is essentially the end of the hostage crisis in which we have been in for more than a year, because if anyone who has seized our society and does not want to let it go, then the law enforcement authorities must probably wait to intervene in this situation. What we see is the disgusting of these Gentiles as hostages. To illustrate, if the hostage gets a chance to drink or go to the toilet, he is happy. If restaurants have opportunities to open terraces even until nine in the evening, everyone has a celebration. And if anyone is allowed to work, if someone vaccinated, he is happy too, he is happy. The Kiel is happy to have been given a drink, he says thank you to those people who have grabbed him, who let him breathe. We are in such a situation. And now, of course, the screws are turned even more. We see price rises with July 1 and we see that with July 1 individual groups will have a very, very complex life. Perhaps our colleagues from the ruling coalition have calculated that they will not be their constituents; they can be written off safely. I can't explain an abnormal wish to get into a foreign purse, but at the same time spending on the right, on the left, all the money that goes in. I call for this proposal to be supported and for this measure, which you voted in the budget, to be carried forward to next year. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U21	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U22	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, After all this week's news and after the elections I would now like to say, "You're mellows, you sort people, you sort children; you sort children; you get a benefit that you don't grant and... how these benefits are to be spent in general. You do not see that GDP is falling to us, the shadow economy is growing to us, and I do not know what a member of the National Alliance for Demographic Affairs is doing, that he does not see that we have a decrease in the number of children and that people do not give birth to the first child at all. What are we doing? I don't know. But we have a table. Our Prime Minister says: "Every citizen of a country above the age of 12 is entitled to receive a vaccine, and we have something to do in return." Dear residents! Listen to what he'll give you in front of you. The table is covered, as they say, all plates, glasses, bottles, hams, rasols - everything is there. It's over! Just come to that table and eat as much as you can. This is called vaccination. And what do they call their tax reform? On the first working day, the Minister for Economics became involved in cases where he shouldn't have been involved, but the Minister for Welfare tells us that he's now from his savings... from the provisions of the second pension fund will shift part to the first level. Then we wonder why people do not want to pay and accumulate some of their funds. We all have banks going every five years through the bubble, people are losing money, but now they are suspicious of the need to accumulate some sort of pensions for their future. I don't want to say that this country has no future, but with a government with cangars sitting on computers, it really doesn't sound like a future... and does not seem to be sunny. Thank you. Support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U23	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U24	I just want to remind you that the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U25	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 7. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 32, for - 51, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U26	So eight. - The proposal of a Member of the Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, Mr. Janis Bordan. Supplement the transitional provisions of the Law with paragraph 15 in the following wording: “If a meeting of members (shareholders) has been announced before the date of entry into force of the eleventh paragraph of Article 37 of this Law, the board shall, on its own initiative or at the request of the members (shareholders), which together represent at least 20 per cent of the capital of the capital company, have the right to establish that the meeting of members (shareholders) shall take place in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph eleven of Article 37 of this Law. In such a case, the Board of Governors shall notify the members (shareholders) that the meeting of the members (shareholders) takes place only electronically at the latest three working days before the announced meeting of the members (shareholders) and shall indicate in the notification the procedure by which the members (shareholders) may exercise the right to participate or vote at the meeting of the members (shareholders) by electronic means. Where shares in a public limited liability company are admitted to trading on a regulated market, the notice referred to in this paragraph shall be published to the shareholders on the website of the public limited liability company.’ The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U27	Let's start a debate. Name to Andris Vītols, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U28	Hello, Madam President. Honourable Members! This proposal is closely linked to 4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, which has been supported. It also provides that by the end of the year 2021, the capital companies have the right to hold completely remote meetings of members or shareholders due to the spread of the community infection. Such rights were previously reserved for cooperative societies, associations, and identical arrangements are now extended to capital companies. I would like to remind you that it was supported not only by the Permanent Working Group of the Commercial Law, but also by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Latvian Employers' Confederation. Thank you to Members for this, but, as I have already mentioned, the Minister of Justice has also tabled a related proposal, namely this proposal 8 to supplement the transitional provisions of the law by providing that, since some of the capital companies have already announced their meetings, such a announced meeting could be converted into a completely remote meeting. In such a case, the capital company should not hold a new meeting, but at the latest three days before the meeting, notify the members that it will be held at a distance and will not be able to participate in it. So, given that this proposal actually only clarifies the proposal that has already been supported, i.e. the proposal 4, I ask Members to find that this proposal, the 8, can also be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U29	I closed the debate. In the name of the commission, what is to be explained?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U30	On behalf of the Commission, I can add that this was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U31	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 8. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 14, for - 13. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U32	So it's 9. - the proposal from Member Julia Stepanenko. Supplement the transitional provisions of the law with the following new article: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall, within one working day from the date of entry into force of these amendments, determine the procedure for implementing support measures for Covid–19 entrepreneurs affected by the crisis - owners of sports centres, legal owners and tenants - their ownership, management or compensation for the fall in turnover of sports centres (hereinafter referred to as "the sports centre") - in support of commercial activities. For the purposes of this Law, State aid for commercial activities is considered to be State aid granted to an operator in its possession, management or compensation for a fall in the turnover of a leased sports centre for indoor space, in order to cover operational costs (public payments, including electricity, water and heat, real estate rental, liability payments, including credit payments, and outsourcing costs), accrued leave compensation and personnel costs for the period from 1 April 2021 to 31 August 2021, which are affected by the Covid-19 crisis due to a fall in the total turnover of the sports centre in question in April, May, June, July and August 2021, compared to the total turnover of the respective months of 2019 or 2020.’ This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U33	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U34	Colleagues! By creating conditions in which sports centres cannot function properly, it is necessary to provide support for those sports centres that have calculated their capacity and realise that new regulations, which are not conditions that, let us say, are not dependent on the government, but these regulations are government-made... and is an amendment to the provisions of the epidemiological safety measures. 360, with which now the government is very active in managing the state in principle on the basis of a mandate from the Saeima. These rules set a very narrow range of customers that can be served by sports clubs. And definitely, by deducting the opportunities of customers and their number of clients... Back to yesterday's conversation... Considering, first of all, that the possibility of vaccination was not given to everyone and that the other issues related to vaccination flows were resolved in the context of the loading of sports centres... It wasn't possible in any way in such a short time to solve... if we are talking about the fact that vaccination was given only from May. And given that, as I said, the sports clubs have calculated that only 40 percent of their existing clients... but given that there is now a summer season and perhaps the intensity of visitors is much less... will be smaller, and 20 percent of the visitors have never thought at any time, have not considered vaccination... As a result, the customer base is significantly reduced, the administrative costs that these clubs have, let us say, for their activities, including the operation of swimming pools, are necessary, well above the possible income, because it has to be taken into account that in order to run... swimming pool, it takes up to seven days to adjust the entire system. Thus, creating additional difficulties for sports clubs... Since there is very little room for work for sports clubs, because this benefit was not paid for April and May, so now the beaks can draw ends together, if not at all able to draw ends together. Now the conditions are being created, which will really make survival only by themselves, by the strongest, who may have been lucky with customers who have carried out the necessary manipulations accordingly. And not because they're afraid of the community, but because they want to play sports. It's normal. This lined Karin's table... That is why we are calling together with colleagues (and I hope that there will also be support from other colleagues)... We call for such a support mechanism, especially in view of the fact that no aid was paid for April and May, and that not everyone will really be able to work. Thank you. I call for support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U35	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U36	I would remind you that this proposal was not supported by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U37	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 9. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 49, for - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U38	Also 10. - Julia Stepanenko's proposal. It is planned to supplement the transitional provisions of the law with the following new article: “The Cabinet of Ministers shall, within one working day from the date of entry into force of these amendments, determine the procedure for implementing support measures for Covid-19 traders affected by the crisis - owners of beauty salons, legal owners and tenants - their ownership, management or compensation for the fall in turnover of beauty salons (hereinafter - the beauty salon) - in support of commercial activities. For the purposes of this Law, State aid for commercial activities is considered to be State aid granted to an operator in its possession, management or compensation for a fall in the turnover of an existing beauty salon for indoor space to cover operational costs (public payments, including electricity, water and heat, real estate rental, liability payments, including credit payments, and outsourcing costs), accrued leave compensation and personnel costs for the period from 1 April 2021 to 31 August 2021, which the Covid-19 crisis is affected by a fall in the total turnover of that beauty salon in April, May, June, July and August 2021, compared to the total turnover of the year 2019 or 2020 concerned.’ The Commission examined this proposal and it did not support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U39	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U40	Colleagues! The beauty industry is one of the most affected sectors, and beauty professionals have been hit very hard by the government, being obliged to vaccinate or choose for themselves other types of income if they want to work. All of this, of course, has had a very, very negative impact on women – yes, on women! I think that it is not surprising for anyone - and not for all of our great female psychologists and defenders - that, in the beauty industry, the lion's court is working on women who have found themselves in this area, who have fought their rights, believed in themselves, in their business, and understand how to manage it all. Today, they get shocked from the same women who imagine that they are great defenders. Yes, we are talking about Development/About! colleagues, who are trying to position themselves on another occasion, that we should ensure equal support for both women and men (we are talking about pay). All this is in words, because in works we see how these activists vote. And, of course, it is no wonder that we have reached a fundamental record in the field of the shadow economy. I think there are no questions about why this is happening. Because the government has promoted the shadow economy through all its activities, all its entrepreneurs, who have been subject to various absolutely illogical and Shamanic restrictions, are in the shadow. But with regard to the beauty industry, of course, I think the situation is the most tragic, because these women must and will try to survive. And they will do it at all costs, because you have now taken away a lot of women from work. I think that women, as very intelligent beings, will certainly be able to solve this in a different way. And I would also like to address the last brave UK Member, Mr Budrik, who in the last debate before the UK took over the silence of the grave... Last sitting and this sitting tried to talk about tattoo salons. Perhaps Mr. Budriķis could apply and tell us how the tattoo salons are doing at the moment and whether they should not have any support. Thank you, colleagues. I call for this proposal to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U41	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U42	Colleagues! I would like to support this proposal. I think it's time and place. This year we were just raging about people, we restricted them, we took away the opportunities for them to work. And what do they expect from July 1th? They are expected on 1 July to receive compulsory national social contributions for part-time workers who are not intolerant to mothers. And who else is waiting for people? People can expect electricity... The increase in Latvenergo bills will increase by more than 40 percent, while “Latvijas Gas” natural gas tariffs for households will increase from July in the range 25 to 43 percent. Well, congratulations! You take care of people, people, you cancelled the OIC. Everything is planned, very smart policy, very intelligent economists, experts, experts. All its administrations and public administrations, which are supported by taxpayers, are paying back this money. People are already living very well. Beauty is good for us. It's good for us. we export this service at all. I'm sorry about what we're doing? I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U43	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U44	Hello, honourable Chairman of the Saeima and colleagues! Perhaps you smiled or laughed a little bit while listening to my colleague Julia Stepanenko's argument about support for this proposal. But it's not quite a place. Yes, it is women who are now the majority of workers in beauty farming. And, as we know, women are to some extent those who really strike a reasonable balance between excitement and survival in crisis situations. The other thing I'd like to say is don't laugh! Indeed, in this sector, most of the working women who are currently feeling in the country would, to a certain extent, be disdained or disdained for working in a particular sector and having a majority. At this point, without supporting or banning the share of one beauty industry, you are insulting a large number of women working in families. Consider this because it is now treated both as a Prime Minister's personal attitude and as a Minister of Health's personal attitude, which is perhaps, however, a misunderstanding of what the number of women working in the beauty sector and their security means. And also the family's kindness or family's belief in the possibility legally - legally! - to get a living while legally working. I am not talking about what really enjoys the beauty of the results, but it is precisely that women in this sector are the majority of workers - therefore both workers and, most often, entrepreneurs. At this point, you are very serious about the activity of business women. I call on no one to laugh at this moment, but to think about the development of this sector and the employment of women. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U45	I closed the debate. For the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U46	On behalf of the Commission, I can say that the State Revenue Service is currently assessing the applications received for benefits and support, measured by the accepted financial criteria, criteria indicators, without distinction by gender or other external features. Consequently, this proposal was not supported in this case.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U47	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Mr Stepanenko's proposal! Please, let's vote! For - 31, for - 48, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U48	In general, we have examined all the proposals. And in the Commission the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U49	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” in the second, final reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We will continue after the break. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 11 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U50	Dear Members, Honourable Members! The agenda for the third remote emergency session of 16 June 2021 shall continue to be examined. On the agenda, draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U51	The President of the sitting is very respectful. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. We will work with the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons” (No. 1097/Lp13). The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of the Interior and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. This is due to the fact that according to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons, which will enter into force on 28 June this year, an extended range of entities has been established in the Register of Natural Persons, including foreigners who have legal ties with Latvia. This provision of the Register allows foreigners who live, are permanently resident in Latvia or have another legal connection with Latvia to maintain this link in a legal manner. On the other hand, the Law on Personal Documents provides that an identity document is to be issued on the basis of exactly these data of the Register of Natural Persons, but the law does not specify what type of document to issue to such persons the legal status of a person. In order to implement this regulation, a draft law has been drawn up, which provides for foreign residents to obtain digital identity in Latvia – eID card and electronic signature, and this is most easily done by introducing a new type of identity card in the Law on Personal Documents – an identity card of a foreigner. The introduction of this foreigner's ID card is also prepared, this draft law, which will provide persons with a legal connection with Latvia with the possibility to obtain electronic services provided by the Latvian State, will facilitate further digital development of whole-line services. The draft law was examined by the Commission of Public Administration and Local Government and was supported at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U52	Dear Members, Honourable Members! Before we start the debate on the first reading, I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a request from 10 Members - Pūce, Feldman, Budrik, Asheraden, Cheksh, Stein, Zamur, Liepkalna, Dombrava and Izalnieks - to recognise the draft law on "Amendments to the Act on Supporting Persons" in accordance with Rule 92 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure. So, first of all, we have to decide that the draft law is urgent. One Member may speak 'for', one Member may speak 'no'. Members have not applied for the recognition of the draft law as urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons” as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 59, for - 14, for - 1. Draft law has been declared urgent. We started a debate on the draft law at first reading. In the first debate, the floor was given to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U53	Thank you, Head of the sitting. Hello, colleagues! I had already forced the button to talk about urgency, because in general, urgency is not a sign of good parliamentary practice. As the classics say - urgency is necessary when catching fleas. But when it comes specifically to this draft law, why is urgency unnecessary here. First. Looking at the text of the bill, there is a need to work on the text of the bill itself, because if it is related to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons, there are some contradictions and shortcomings that should be addressed by carefully weighing all the norms that are laid down in this bill. The second argument is that if the law enters into force (and it is foreseen that it will probably enter into force in conjunction with the Law on the Register of Natural Persons, i.e. on 29 June), it means that from 1 July all foreigners or foreigners living in any country can apply for the issue of certificates in our diplomatic institutions. I for the first, i for the second was objections from the Legal Bureau, which noted the need to improve the standards of the draft law, as well as from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who considered that they were not fully prepared to initiate this procedure. But when it comes to the draft law itself, it is definitely in favour of us trying to make life easier for people, whether they live in Latvia or abroad, but it is important to answer some questions here. Question one. What categories are particularly affected or what categories are required for this type of licence? For business people? Probably yes, although today the business has not begun again, the business is, has and will. What else? Students who come to Latvia to learn will undoubtedly make life easier for them. But the particular need for this type of certificate, as it would not be paradoxical, is for asylum seekers, because it is for them that this kind of supporting document with an electronic signature right is extremely important when communicating with our complex public administration structure. Therefore, by providing that, at the end of the pandemic restrictions, the flow of asylum seekers will increase, I am sure that the European Commission also activates its actions on the entry and reception of migrants into the countries of the European Union in each country of the European Union. This type of certificate would be necessary to prepare for this. That is why I would call for support for this draft law, although it does not solve many problems, it is just one of the means and not the most important, but it will help a large category of people. But once again I say that the urgency here is extremely unthinkable and it may cause some problems for the reputation of our state administration abroad, which the President of Latvia has also spoken about today. Another argument I'd like to use, and here's that... it is in fact not an argument for good or for bad for this draft law; here is simply a criticism of our public administration structures, because work on this kind of solution has begun not yesterday, not yesterday, but already in 2011, when it appeared, as is clear from the annotation, the first attempt to bring together all the problems related to the digital environment, and then a relevant order of the Cabinet of Ministers appeared. It was also specified in 2016 by the Cabinet of Ministers order, which is indicated by annotation, and then all these works started. There were also procurements, despite the fact that this type of certificate is not provided for in any regulatory act, funds have already been spent, procurement procedures have already been carried out, and neither the State Audit Office nor any other managing bodies have considered whether there are legal grounds for this type of activity or not, whether taxpayers' money was spent in relation to legal norms, or whether it was an experiment. That's why I think it's not a good practice. And so this kind of experiment, I think, really weakens our not particularly strong public administration and shows that some of the structures do not work very well. Now it is a substance for reflection and not only for reflection but also for action. I call for the draft law to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U54	The name to Member Karin Scratch.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U55	Dear colleagues and the Group on Development/About! Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You have an excellent minister holding her name, she said in her address that she would support and address the problem with asylum seekers and immigrants. And the Minister said the Minister is doing because the initiative goes from the Ministry of the Interior. And what do we see? Last week, the Minister for Economics opposed investment, the National Association presented its ideology that they cared for property, abandoned manors, that these foreigners were managing their properties very badly, and now we want to separate them. And what are we doing today? We will grant a foreigner's identity card. And just on the wishes. If this person just wants to get a foreigner's identity card to promote economic, scientific, educational or cultural relations... below these words, I do not see any criteria for what it means. We're... In the 1900 ’ s, we were accused of being a bridge for washing some money. Don't give the god, it can't, we can be included in the grey zone, and our entire banking system... Nothing's going to work. And all European Member States will give up on us. But we were all abandoned. And even at local level, we cannot provide services. But we can provide services to foreigners and asylum seekers. And what are we turning into? To the bridge? For these people, a bridge in Europe? Is this the ideology of the National Alliance? That is how you care about the security of the country, about the stability of the country? I call on my colleagues to vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U56	The debate is closed. Mr. Pouce, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U57	I would perhaps like two comments. The first is that Mr Dolgopolov said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had objected in some way to this draft law yesterday at the sitting or the PMLP. On the contrary, the draft law was supported and said by both of these institutions that it was important and possible. And there is also a negotiated mechanism by which these institutions will ensure the issuing of these aliens' identity cards. Of course, this will require further rules from the MK, which I very much hope the Cabinet of Ministers will be able to adopt in time. On the other hand, as Mrs Sprude said, this bill opens a door... here is actually talk... in this draft law on foreigners who already have a legal link with Latvia; moreover, this legal link has been established in the law and is already supported by the Saeima. This draft law was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U58	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and the date of the meeting of the Saeima at the second, final and final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U59	Now I have to inform you that at the meeting of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government, the Commission did not support urgency, so it did not decide on the timing of the examination and set the deadline for the submission of proposals - five days, which would be 22 June. But if the chair allowed me, I could make an alternative motion as a Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U60	Please, Mr. Pouce!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U61	I would like to call for a one-hour deadline for the submission of proposals, namely 12.16 today, 17 June, and for the discussion to take place at the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima after the deadline for the submission of proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U62	Thank you. So there are two proposals. Five days, 22 June, and one hour, 17 June at 12.16. We must make a distinction by voting. First of all, we are voting on the next deadline for the submission of possible proposals, namely five days, or 22 June. Please call me! Please, let's vote! For - 19, for - 46, for - 1. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 12.16 a.m. today, 17 June. Review - today, 17 June, in the extraordinary session of the new Saeima. The next draft law on the agenda of the sitting - Draft law on the law on asylum, first reading. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Mārtiņš Steins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U63	Hello, Madam President. Dear President of the Saeima. Colleagues! In the Saeima Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption, we have examined the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Asylum” (No. 1107/Lp13). Draft law was drafted by the Ministry of the Interior and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. This draft law is related to the aforementioned draft law “Amendments to the Law on Identity Documents” and to the next one – “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons”. The draft legislation is designed to improve the procedures for ensuring the enforcement of the rights provided by the Asylum Act for asylum seekers during the asylum procedure, resulting from the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 laying down standards for the reception of applicants for international protection. In order to improve the procedure for ensuring the exercise of their rights to asylum seekers during the asylum procedure, it is planned that in addition to the entities of the Population Register Law, information about foreigners who have legal links with Latvia will be included in the Law on the Register of Natural Persons, on the basis of which mutual rights and obligations in the field of real estate, business, health, tax, benefits, asylum and education will arise. In order to ensure that information on those persons who respectively receive services from an institution is automatically included in the common systems, the Register of Natural Persons should include information, including the personal identification number, including on asylum seekers. The inclusion of this information on asylum seekers in the Register of Natural Persons will ensure more effective enforcement of the rights granted to asylum seekers, as the authorities involved will have centralised access to personal data. This will in general reduce the administrative burden and speed up the service of foreigners in institutions. On this draft law, the Commission had no objections from the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, and on behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to declare the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Asylum” urgent, because the draft law should enter into force on 28 June, in conjunction with the Law on the Register of Natural Persons. Please accept that the law is urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U64	So first one can speak "for", one can speak "for" for the recognition of a draft law as urgent. Mr Dolgopolov, will you talk about the urgent recognition of a draft law or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U65	I will speak against the urgency, as I also wanted to do with the previous draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U66	Thank you, Mr Dolgopolova, you can speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U67	I have already said that urgency is necessary when we catch fleas, not when we work on legislation. I would also like to ask you, the honourable head of the Saeima sitting, to follow the roll of order, because, first of all, Mr Puce has not said what I have said in his comments at the Saeima sitting. I did not say any words that the Foreign Ministry opposed the draft law. I am talking about the technical problems associated with the specific actions required, which raise concerns at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was my idea, and therefore this comment was not appropriate. I believe that this type of document, which regulates the handling of natural persons, still requires more thought and more concrete work, because everything here was enticed in the end. And now we want to improve something within an hour or try to make something more effective and better - it is not a good parliamentary practice! Hence, the time will ever come when it will have to be abandoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U68	On the urgent recognition of the draft law by no Member... Mrs Papules, will you talk about the urgent recognition of the draft law?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U69	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Yes, of course, I have to talk about it. Looking at the draft law in general, of course, there is a need to support actions that organise the lives, situation and existence of asylum seekers or are there. In general, this is to be supported, however, when looking at the general functioning of the Saeima, I would like to say that if you all were to be “for” for any rule of law as a matter of urgency, it may be necessary to amend the Rules of Procedure and to amend the internal rules of how the laws are viewed. Perhaps at present, when it comes to the urgency of any law, it should be seen that laws can be read at all in one or two readings and no more debate is needed. If you are also rushing in this way for the adoption of supposedly positive laws, it will not only create good practices and, let us say, a good attitude towards what Members of the Saeima are doing as their direct task, but it also creates such a mystical sense of urgency in general. Where are you going? By September you want to accept everything that is questionable for the existence of your coalition? Of course, 'for' in this case. I call, however, on those people who are serious about changes in legislation, including the Asylum Search Act, to watch and account for the processes that we make and how we take decisions. If you can discuss previous laws within an hour in the context of urgency, then the question arises – maybe really the Saeima is no longer needed and only the Cabinet of Ministers can produce laws and approve them itself? I repeat: I will support this draft law, also because of its content, but at any time... I call for a little bit of a look at yourself at the way in which laws are adopted - within an hour, to be honest, even not allowing those who read carefully and think carefully about legislative opportunities and the work of the legislator to actually carry out their work qualitatively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U70	One Member has said 'yes', one has spoken 'no' to the urgent recognition of a draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law on asylum as urgent! Please vote mode! For - 58, for - 17, for - 2. Draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U71	I call on the Saeima to support this draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U72	Members have not applied in the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on asylum. Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and the date of the meeting of the Saeima at the second, final and final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U73	In the Commission we decided to invite the Saeima to decide on this draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the committee, if the Saeima does not object.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U74	Are Members opposed to the examination of this draft law at this second, final, reading session? Please name Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that, in fact, also during the summer, extraordinary sittings will be convened in exactly the same way - to consider the draft law as a matter of urgency in two readings, but in one minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U76	Mrs. Papule, from what you said... are you opposed to the second reading of this sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U77	Yes, of course, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U78	Mrs Papules object. If Mrs Papules objects, if Members object, it is necessary to set a deadline for the submission of proposals. Mr. Stein, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U79	The Commission initiates ‐ 30 minutes. And consideration - the next Saeima in an extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U80	So the commission proposes 30 minutes at 11.58. No further proposals have been received from the Saeima Bureau. So the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is today, June 17, at 11.58 p.m. And consideration at the extraordinary meeting of 17 June. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U81	Hello, colleagues! Seven proposals have been received for the second reading of the draft law, which is mainly editorial. The Ministry of the Interior has improved and supplemented certain versions originally foreseen in this draft law. 1. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. As I said, editorial. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U82	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U83	2. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. Editative clarifications. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U85	3. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. The Commission is supported. Editable.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U87	4. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. This also clarifies the wording. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U89	5. - the proposal by the Minister for the Interior, Maria Golubeva. On transitional provisions. Partially supported, included 6. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U90	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U91	6. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. Also on transitional provisions. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U93	And the last one is 7. - a proposal from the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption. On the date of entry into force of the law - that the law enters into force on 28 June this year. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U95	All the proposals have therefore been examined. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U96	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Register of Natural Persons”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 71, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. On the agenda of the next sittings - draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U97	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear President, This and next bill - these are two draft laws, received from the Cabinet of Ministers, drafted by the Ministry of Economics. Deep technical drafts, which provide for the alignment of terminology between different laws in the context of administrative territorial reform, contain in fact one sentence. In this respect, yesterday, the Commission on Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy supported this draft law - and also the next one -. The Commission is asking for urgency to be given to the draft law, so please support the granting of urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U98	As regards the recognition of the draft law as an urgent matter, one Member may speak "for", one for "no". In the past, Members said they couldn't apply, but... So this is the moment you can apply. No Member has applied for the urgent recognition of a draft law or a draft law. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”” as urgent! Please vote mode! It's not 65, it's two, it's not. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U99	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U100	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Property”! Please vote mode! For - 67, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and a date for the examination of the draft law at the second, final and final sitting of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U101	Since this is really a very short bill, the commission agreed... It decided unanimously to ask for its support today at second reading - without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U102	Are Members against the fact that today this draft law is being examined in the second, final, reading - without a re-examination by the commission responsible? Members are asked to apply if you have such objections. There is no objection by Members. Mrs Papules, however, has. Please have your name, Mrs Papule.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U103	Thank you, Head of the sitting. Yes, I have reservations, and I will ask the Commission to set a longer time limit for tabling proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U104	Member Krišjānis Feldman has the name to set a deadline for the submission of proposals on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U105	Although the Commission unanimously moved this draft law to the second reading, we of course allowed someone to have reservations against this amendment of one sentence, so the Commission agreed that the deadline for the submission of proposals would be 18 June and consideration - at the next extraordinary sitting of the Saeima after 5 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U106	No further proposals for time limits have been received. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 18 June this year. And the Saeima sitting day, the examination day, and... Extraordinary sitting of the Saeima not earlier than 5 July. Colleagues! So, on behalf of the Saeima Bureau, I can inform you that, despite the fact that the President of Latvia wished all of us a rest after the parliamentary spring session was closed, we will certainly come to work in Saeima sittings and commissions sittings in summer. So we can plan the work of the Saeima as early as the week of July, on which you will be informed following the decision taken by the Saeima Bureau to convene the Saeima meeting. The next draft law on the agenda of the Saeima sitting is the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Privatisation and Privatisation of State and Local Government Property Certificates”. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U107	Yeah, well... This is related to the previous... Well, not connected, but... the same corrections are found in this bill, deep technical. The Commission unanimously requests support for the introduction of urgency for the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U108	Does anyone want to talk? One Member can speak for, one against the recognition of a draft law as urgent. Please apply for e-Europe... So in this opportunity... “Log in” button. Members have not applied for urgent recognition of the draft law or the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Finalisation of Privatisation and Use of Privatisation Certificates of State and Local Authorities” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 58, against - 3, abstaining - 3. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U109	Please support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U110	Members have not applied for a debate on the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Privatisation of State and Local Government Property and Use of Privatisation Certificates”! Please vote mode! For - 71, for - no, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading of the proposals and the sitting of the Saeima for the second, final, reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U111	Although I have no illusions about such a constructive attitude, on behalf of the Commission, I must ask for this draft law to be examined today at second reading - without a re-examination by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U112	The committee is therefore also asking for a second reading - without a re-examination by the committee. Members have reservations. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U113	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, of course, there are objections, especially because Mr Feldman said that this draft law is somehow related to the previous one, which has a longer time for consideration and also a longer time for submission of proposals. So, if the draft laws are complete, then maybe they... That's exactly what I'm asking you right now... they must be seen together, at least to have their relationship between them in the eyes of the legislator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U114	Thank you. One Member's objection is sufficient. Mr Dolgopolova, do you want to say anything more about the procedure or oppose it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U115	Urgency here... previous and subsequent draft laws... is linked to a rather weak political responsibility from Mr Puce as former Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, because when it comes to the ATR...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U116	Mr Dolgopolov, now just...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U117	... It was about looking at all the draft laws... the laws to be amended as a result of that reform. And that work has not been done in time, and so today we are trying to solve what has not been done in time and responsibly. That is why we can be “give thanks” to Mr Puce for his “high” political responsibility as Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U118	Consequently, Members object to the second, final reading of the draft law at this sitting of the Saeima without re-examination by the committee responsible. Mr Feldman, on behalf of the Commission, what is the proposal for the deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U119	I would like to clarify that, although I said at the outset that these draft laws are linked, it was a censorship; then I adjusted my words and said that they are on the same subject, in fact very similar, perhaps identical, but they are not related in themselves. And there were, of course, grounds for asking for a second reading too - as the Commission decided. Mr Dolgopolova would probably rather need to get acquainted with this draft law. I do not know why Mr Puce is being blamed for the draft law of the Ministry of Economics. But as in the previous case, I can only offer what the commission has decided. And that's the deadline for the second reading, June 18. And consideration - in the next extraordinary sitting after 5 July.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U120	Thank you. No other proposals for a deadline have been received from Members. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is set at 18 June this year. And consideration of the extraordinary session of the Saeima - not earlier than 5 July. The next draft law on the agenda of the sitting is the draft law “Amendments to the Law on the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Regina Ločmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U121	Colleagues! We work with Law No. 1099/Lp13. The Commission of Public Administration and Local Government has examined the draft law submitted by the Ministry of Economics. The concepts used in the Law “On the Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” had to be clarified in accordance with the Law on Administrative Territory and Populations in order to avoid inconsistency of the concepts used in different legal acts, while respecting the principle of legal clarity. It was in this law that the term ‘town of the republic’ should have been waived and replaced by ‘municipality’. But it turns out that it does not solve the problems associated with rights. For example, the city of Ogre was never a state town... and was not the city of the republic, but at present, in order to determine the status of the state city, it was necessary to amend this law. At the same time, for the sake of clarity of certain articles of the privatisation law, it is necessary to express in a new wording, since the terminology used is fragmented and concepts to be replaced account for a large part of the text of the legal norm, but the new versions do not, in substance, alter the division of rights and obligations included in the legal norms. The Commission had decided to ask the Saeima to declare this draft law urgent because it had to enter into force already on 1 July this year. And since the amendments provide for changes in terminology and do not change the scope of the rights, the nature of the rights, please grant urgency to this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U122	Thank you. One Member may speak in favour, one may speak against the recognition of a draft law as urgent. Members have not applied for urgent recognition of the draft law or the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses”” as urgent! Please vote mode! For -69, for -1, for -2. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U123	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U124	Members have not applied for a debate on supporting the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses”! Please vote mode! No, 73, against and refrains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U125	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to find an opportunity, without consideration, to support this draft law in the second, final, reading, in the light of the circumstances and objectives that have already been expressed.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U126	So, too, this draft law... Members, do you have any objections to the second reading of this draft law at this parliamentary sitting - without a re-examination by the committee? Please log in! Thus, Members do not object to the second, final, reading of the draft law. We can do that.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U127	Please support the draft law “On privatisation of state and municipal residential houses” at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U128	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Privatisation of State and Local Government Housing Houses” at second, final reading! Please vote mode! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. The next item is the draft law amending the law on sport, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U129	Hello! At its meeting of 15 June, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined draft law “Amendments to Sport Law” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1092/Lp13). The draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” was drafted on the basis of the... The requirements set out in Appendix 1 of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization International Convention against Doping in Sport - the World Anti-Doping Code, as well as the recommendations received from the World Anti-Doping Agency regarding the necessary amendments to Latvian laws and regulations to ensure transposition of the 2021 Code into national legislation. The amendments included in the draft law are necessary to enable the Republic of Latvia and the Latvian Anti-Doping Office to ensure compliance with the 2021 Code at national level and to recognise the regulation adopted in Latvia and the anti-doping system as complying with the requirements of the code. At the same time, the amendments included in the draft law will further regulate issues concerning the competence and delegation of the Office, the delegation of different anti-doping infringement investigation and prevention commissions, and other issues arising from those referred to in the 2021 Code. The Commission supported the draft law "Amendments to the Sport Act" and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U130	Colleagues, one Member can speak about, one can speak against a draft law being declared urgent. Members have not applied for urgent recognition of the draft law or the draft law. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, 73, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U131	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U132	Members have not applied for a debate on the first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to Sport Law”! Please vote mode! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the second reading and the day of the Saeima sitting for the second, final reading of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U133	On behalf of the Commission, please stipulate that for the second reading, the deadline is 12 noon on 30 June this year and to examine the draft law at the second, final, reading of the Saeima's next extraordinary sitting after 30 June or, if the summer... sittings will not be convened on 9 September.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U134	No further proposals for time limits have been received. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 12 noon on 30 June this year. And consideration - the next Saeima emergency sitting after 30 June or... as the committee rapporteur said, if the Saeima... At the end of the extraordinary sittings would not be convened (although this is not likely to be the case), then after 9 September, when we will resume work at the part-session. Thank you. The agenda for the next sitting of the Saeima - Bureau reports. On own-initiative proposals submitted. Members of the Saeima Maris Možvillo, Ralfs Nemiro, Kaspars Ģirgens, Ieva Krapāne, Ēriks Pucens, Ramona Petraviča, Edgars Tavars, Uldis Augulis, Karina Sprūde and Didzis Šmits have submitted their own proposal – draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to stop human rights violations in the person of the Ministry of Justice and to ensure within the shortest possible time limit cases No. 2018-25-01 execution of the judgment in the framework of the existing infrastructure’. If a Member objects to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting, please apply. So if anyone has reservations, please apply! Members... Mr. Cole, please! Name to Member Rihard Cole.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U135	Colleagues! I object to inclusion in this parliamentary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U136	The Members therefore object to the examination of this own-initiative proposal at this sitting of the Saeima. We must therefore decide on the inclusion of this own-initiative proposal on the agenda of the Saeima's next sitting. One Member may speak "for", and one may speak "no" on the agenda of the next extraordinary sitting. Member Maris Možvillo has applied to speak. Are you going to talk about it?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U137	I will speak against inclusion in the next, because I believe that this draft decision should be considered in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U138	Mr Možville, the roll of order of the Saeima states that we cannot deal with this because there have been objections. You can talk about the examination of or against the next Saeima sitting. Are you going to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U139	I am “for”. Then consideration next, if not possible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U140	Talk about it. Please, you have a name.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U141	Dear colleagues, In this case, this draft decision is submitted only because we have not received any proof that at the moment at least we are trying to deal with this decision of the Constitutional Court. Four hours ago, the President of Latvia invited us to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Saeima to act in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. In this case... This decision has already entered into force a year and a half ago. Unfortunately, none of what is decided in this decision is happening. And it only shows that at the moment the Cabinet of Ministers... and more specifically, the Ministry of Justice... In the person of the Ministry of Justice, it is clear that this decision of the Constitutional Court is ignored. Consequently, I and my colleagues have reason to believe that the Ministry of Justice is unable to resolve this issue. In the face of this decision, human rights cannot be slightly respected or slightly ignored. Human rights are either respected or not respected. In this case... Well, looking at at at least the activities of the Ministry of Justice, there is a belief that the Ministry of Justice uses prisons not as a training institution, but as a tool for torture, because in reality... The Constitutional Court has indicated violations of human rights in these prison institutions. I therefore call on my colleagues, however, to take this issue very seriously. Although we tried to make a little difference there last night, unfortunately, it was not a success. Moving a little to the Lyrical section, there is a feeling that at this point the Ministry of Justice - in the person of the Minister - is acting and feeling... as the Latvian folk saying about the landscape says: “Essitis proud bird, don’t get caught – won’t fly.” In this case, this is the moment when perhaps Mr Kariņš should get a hit to finally start operating and start a flight in the right direction, because human rights violations must not be ignored. I would also like to call on Mr Kaimiņš to address this issue as Head of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, who also cares very much about compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, who has always stressed that human rights are beyond everything and should be respected very, very strictly. I also call on Mr Kariņš to make sure that if this porch does not move, maybe we need to get out of the table and press the porch, and also to encourage this flight to be in the right direction. Because if I do not follow action, I will now call my colleagues in the Saeima to come together and decide perhaps another kick. And then that direction of the flight can change... Well, different. Since I call on my colleagues, however, to approach this issue very seriously, do not hesitate to deal with this issue and to prevent people from being subjected to further torture in prisons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U142	No Member has applied for a speech to put the draft decision on the agenda of the next sitting. We have to vote. We will vote on the draft decision “On task for the Cabinet of Ministers to stop human rights violations in the person of the Ministry of Justice and to ensure within the shortest possible time of the Constitutional Court case No. 2018-25-01 execution of the judgment in the framework of the existing infrastructure” is included on the agenda of the next meeting! Please vote mode! For - 31, for - 37, for - 2. Consequently, the draft decision is not on the agenda of the next sitting. Do Members have a proposal to hand over the own-initiative proposal in question to one of the commissions? The name to the Member, Marim Mozhville.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U143	If colleagues are not prepared to deal with this at the Saeima sitting, I propose that the matter be referred to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U144	So a proposal has been received to submit this own-initiative proposal to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. So one Member... Mr. Neighbours, do you want to make a proposal for another commission? Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U145	Hello! Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! Of course, there are other commissions because there will still be other requests on the agenda today. I think that is already too disproportionate... about how... simply spend public taxpayers' money with these requests...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U146	Mr. Neighbours, please... This is not a request, but an own-initiative proposal. Please determine which commission you are to encourage to hand over.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U147	I would like to ask for this own-initiative proposal perhaps to be entrusted to the Social and Labour Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U148	So two proposals have been received for transferring this own-initiative proposal - to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs or the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs. Mrs. Papule? So... or the commission...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U149	Thank you, Madam President. Well, if human rights are no longer relevant to the commission in question, then it would probably be right to refer them to the Legal Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U150	So three commissions have already been named. It closes the possibility to name new commissions. If you wish, please apply again. Members have not applied any more. Three commissions - the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, the Commission on Social and Labour Affairs and the Commission on Legal Affairs. We will vote on the referral in order to submit these proposals. One Member may speak "for", one may speak "no" to the Commission. Please log in. Members have not applied to speak "for" or "no" referral to the commission. We must make a decision by voting. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over this own-initiative proposal to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs! Please vote mode! For - 27, for - 39, for - 2. The own-initiative proposal has not been referred to the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Please call me! Let us vote for handing over the own-initiative proposal to the Social and Labour Commission! Please vote mode! For - 18, for - 47, for - 2. Consequently, the own-initiative proposal has not been referred to the Social and Labour Commission. Finally, it was proposed that the own-initiative proposal be referred to the Legal Commission. Please call me! We will vote for handing over the own-initiative proposal to the Legal Commission! Please vote mode! There's no one for - 30, against - 40, abstaining. The own-initiative proposal has not been submitted to the Legal Commission. And so the own-initiative proposal has been rejected. The next item on the agenda for the sitting of the Saeima is the examination of Members' requests. Opinion of the Appeals Board Member Ivars Zariņa, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivans Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Jānis Krišāns, Ivans Klementjevs' request to the Minister for Health Daniels Pavļutas “On actions of Latvian officials and the true responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Purchase of bioNTech/Pfizer vaccines’. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U151	Yes, welcome, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen! The inquiry panel examined the request made by Members of the Saeima Ivars Zariņa, Valija Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementjevs, Minister of Health, Daniel Pavluts, “On actions of Latvian officials and the true responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Purchase of BioNTech/Pfizer Vaccines’ (No. 62/P13) and, by voting on 5 in favour, 8 against and one Member who did not vote, admitted that this request from Members should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U152	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U153	Good afternoon, everybody again! Both colleagues and those who follow this parliamentary sitting! We have come to this parliamentary sitting, clearly for a more interesting section - Members' requests. Today, we will look at three whole requests for the purchase of vaccines here. Why three? As I have already said, when we look at this request for the purchase of vaccines in the past, we see that this saga in the purchase of vaccines or, more precisely, in the non-purchase phase, is increasingly beginning to remind the OIC, namely that instead of providing clear and concrete answers to clearly and specifically identified questions, they either avoid giving these answers, trying to avoid, say correctly, or trying to provide any information, but simply not to answer the substance of the questions submitted. The same was true when we began to divide the OIC. There, too, all the same stages had to be completed. So the first stage when you're trying to answer simply out of touch, in a more correct way, trying not to answer. Thereafter, if applicants continue to do so, the defendants will sooner or later start to provide them with the answers they need, but will start to provide them with just unconnected information. The next step is when it goes through this... In particular, despite this unconnected information provided, this information is analysed and put together. We come to the most interesting stage in all this story, that despite not providing the requested information, from the information that is already provided, we can begin to glue some structures of information with which the defendants themselves with their lies, with their half-truths, and then start to look at the moments of the truth. We are also approaching this moment in terms of the purchase of vaccines. And today, those who follow - and I am calling in particular to follow the members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry - will have a lot of interesting information and substance for reflection, and not only for reflection, but also for further action if you really want to investigate something there and get to the truth in this regard. The Prosecutor General's Office, investigators who are also connected to this process, will also have useful material, information for reflection, as well as threads that are further divided... will be able to reach the truth that is hidden from Latvian society. That is why we made these three requests today. We had to do this because the respondents tried to withdraw from the previous request. We have responded to this at a moment, we have prepared three requests on the basis of one request, and we have continued to insist that the answers to the necessary questions be given. This was also widely known to the mass media. After that, all the Office of the Prosecutor General has joined. So that the process is moving, and we will help to continue to divide it. Therefore, specifically speaking of this first purchase of BioNTech/Pfizer. So -- which was the most shocking in this whole story you know. So several things. One is how we know how it is being presented to us: that the political officials and the ministerial leadership were not involved at all in this process, that there was some mystical working group that was formed by someone who did not know any powers, who did not know what it was, did not know what it was, but ultimately was recognised as responsible for the whole measure. And it all happened suddenly. Why all this was to be done, one of the reservations was - because it was very urgent to do so, we had only two days to decide on these vaccines. There was also a service test, where it all... what I tell you is the truth that is presented to us from the results of this service test, which began when the public became aware of the way in which and what Latvia has decided with regard to these vaccines... do not purchase these vaccines. And it was as if the Ministry of Health were doing to reveal the true circumstances of the cases and to find out the guilty. In fact, as we see more and more, the tests of this service... there are grounds for believing that they have been carried out not to investigate anything in order to reveal the truth, but on the contrary - to haste to hide it. To rush to hide the true order of things and the true responsible. So one can be seen as an example of the fact that the verification of this service does not actually deal with the investigation, but with the creation of a cover, is about this deadline, about the time limits during which Latvia was supposed to take this decision. We are told that this information was given to Latvia by 16 and had already 18 decisions to be taken. November. So this is November, November last year. Indeed, the European Commission had sent a letter on this vaccine, about the need for Latvia to respond, but what was defaulted and not mentioned at all in this service report for little reason that, in fact, Latvia was going to have this purchase... Latvia's quota for this purchase was already announced to Latvia on 12 November. This information was sent to Latvia on 12 November. And even more, on 12 November, this information, which we have also finally received as the so-called Bazaar file, which clearly indicates the extent of Latvia and also makes it clear that Latvia had to give confirmation by 12.00 the next day - it will take or not take this amount. Nothing has been done. We asked for this request... within... The Ministry of Health would submit all the lists that have been below. So this information came from the European Commission on 12 November, but nothing was done from Latvia. Nothing was done! It happens because no information, no correspondence has been left. And then it took several days when the European Commission's specific request to Latvia to notify its final decision within two days came, before some action took place. Then the question is, why is this episode not mentioned at all in the course of the service inspection? There was no need for investigation. Why was it defaulted? It is obvious that it would be worth finding out here what actions were after November 12, why was nothing done? Why did we come to a situation where there is an urgent need to buy something, two days to decide? We also asked to provide information on what exactly this procedure had been, by receiving such information, how the Latvian side, to which the Ministry of Health replied, should have done so, according to what this instruction would come from Europe. This guide from Europe was very clear: by 12.00 the following day. This was not done. Record it, find out why and who is responsible for it. There is a very interesting nuance in this whole story. If we really want to know the truth, how has it really been, then how is it being presented to us? So everyone was responsible for this task force, where everything was decided. But still, which is really very strange and mystical, the Ministry of Health desperately and persistently refuses to disclose information about who has set up this working group, because, as you understand, the working group could not have formed itself. It could not just come from nothing. Someone should have initiated it, who should have created it. This is a question that is still open and to which the Ministry of Health still desperately does not want to give an answer. Trying to figure out anything. The last information that has already come is the answer that the Ministry of Health is now saying that it has therefore been - imagine! - a working group under the auspices of which all this decision and all these events have taken place. And what is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health? It responds that the Ministry of Health has not ordered the creation of a working group for coordinated discussion and final decision on the acquisition of the vaccine. Well, it's a fundamental contradiction, and it shows it... Well, it's simply a maximum barrack, an irresponsibility that takes place in the ministry at all. Then there is a valid question for the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health's leadership - well, if you did not have such an order, then how did you mean to implement this process? This process is moving, it will have to respond to it - what was the mechanism you have proposed to do all this if you say that this mechanism was not linked to the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health had no orders to do so? You get rid of all this now. What was your... Is that so? What is more, there are legitimate questions that we will be discussing with the next requests. A from where does this occur in general, if the Ministry of Health has not issued any orders and refuses to answer the question which particular official of the Ministry of Health, according to the information received during the verification of the service, created this ad hoc working group? After all, this was to be clarified in the test of the service! That was one of the things that should have been clarified immediately if it was already found during the verification of the service that the working group had done all this, then who has set up this working group? Who's jammed this quail? And it's being hidden. But you can just find it out. So that's one important thing. Next, if we know that this group has been specifically formed, what has been the mandate of this group... because it is now its biggest mystery - the Ministry of Health has not formed such a group, there has been no specific order from which it follows at all... How then this working group... one is, how did it come together at all, how did I understand who was supposed to come together? But we are about to be told after Darwin’s theory that it was just that the molecules were born. Well, around here is the same, trying to say that simply, wot, each molecule there worked and suddenly - hop! - came together in the composition of himself, knowing where to come from, where to arrive, and all this happened. That sounds very reliable, isn't it? So if we figure out who has set up this task force, then who has called it, because it could not call again by itself, then how these employees knew about their powers... We will talk about this in the next request. Who at all delegated these decisions to this task force in the absence of an order? None of these questions have yet been answered. We also wanted to find out who was then the official who convened this decisive meeting on this procurement for BioNTech/Pfizer vaccines. We refused to buy almost a million. So it was the 17th November, the first sitting, the main sitting, as we can see, which service test no one wants to reflect and find out what has really been decided there. Just... When we asked for it, again the Ministry of Health avoids providing this information. Although, in fact, it is very simple to find out, because of the fact that a thread appeared from the information provided by the Ministry of Health, that is, a printout has been put on hand in the form of an online meeting sent by Linda Sprudzāne. I didn't move, I went, I looked on the Internet on the Health Ministry's website, which is now Linda Sprudzāne, who seems to be... To which she is trying to "hirt", to say that she was the one who convened the meeting. Linda Sprudzāne is the smallest man - the rapporteur. So she was an performer. Obviously not the performer, the rapporteur, came up with - now I want all the leaders of our health institutions to come together - the NSA, the SPC, the Council of the State of Immunisation... I figured out here, I'll tell them, come here! They all arrived obediently. Who believes that? But if there was a service test, what would be the real test, and if the health minister really had an interest, the desire to find out the truth, then he would ask Linda Sprudzān, who gave her that task. And so we would gradually find out how this working group has been formed and what powers it has had, and if it really had nothing to do with political leadership, with the leadership of the ministry. Was it actually an active figured mechanism for making a decision? So that I turn to the members of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, to Mr Kozlovsky. And I have a question: how will you vote in favour of this request, Mr Kozlovsky, when you hear all this? Do you really think that this request has been answered, that there have been meaningful and reasoned answers to these questions? Because depending on this, we can judge how you work in this commission of inquiry and with what purpose you work there if you satisfy such answers. And I also call on the New Conservative Party, which is in favour of a rule of law that is in favour of a country becoming more responsible - with your vote - to show - your votes will be decisive - whether we will introduce clarity on this matter or not. The question, where we talk about significant potential losses to the Latvian economy due to the fact that our vaccination process has been halted, and about the lives of many people who have been lost due to such a process. Now, not with your beautiful promises, but with real works, you will be able to demonstrate whether you are ready to answer for your words. I call for this request to be supported and for the vote to be followed by these people, particularly Mr Kozlovsky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U154	Colleagues! Time is coming for the next break. Given that several parliamentary commissions have wished to meet at this break, we must therefore close the debate in due time. Let's keep going after the break. But before we go on a break, it is a real pleasure and honour for me to welcome today, on behalf of the Saeima, to our fellow Members of the Saeima, Ieva Krapani, who is today's birthday, and it is a round anniversary. So my sincere welcome to Eve Crapani's birthday! (Applause) Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. Interruption until 13.30 a.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U155	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! We keep sitting after the break. We shall continue to refer to the agenda for the third remote extraordinary sitting of 16 June and to the debate on the agenda - Members' requests. The floor in the debate for Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U156	Thank you, honourable President. Dear colleagues! Very, very long ago, the law governing the principles and stages of the functioning of the public administration has been formulated. As is clear from the request that we are talking about today, particularly from Mr Zarina's broad and well-substantiated comment, our government is consistently and rigorously stopping to comply with these rules and not just in this area. I understand that all of you know this law, as well as other laws that go out of the walls of the Saeima, but let me remind you of the five stages that have been formulated here. The first stage is a great noise, the second stage is a big mess, the third stage is a search for the guilty, the fourth stage is the punishment of the innocent. Now we are very close to the fifth stage, which is formulated as a prize for passers-by. I would call for support for this request, because it is in our traditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U157	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U158	So once again, what is this request about and why we believe that it should be supported, and why these requests and precisely these specific issues are needed at all. That is, very specific issues that we want to clarify about which particular official has set up this working group, where all these decisions were taken in connection with the purchase of vaccines or, more precisely, the non-purchase of vaccines. Next, what has been the specific procedure for the whole of this measure from the moment the information is received from the European Commission, which has led the procedure, which has taken decisions, what action to take, and specifically those responsible... who then convened this meeting in concrete terms. Why are all these questions important? Colleagues! We're... There are certain things that we know. We know how many vaccines we have ordered or have ordered and who has done so. We have been told where these decisions have been made, but there are things that we cannot find out which nobody wants us to present or try to present in such a way that it is impossible to find out what the bear is in the stomach. You see, if you don't want to tell what the bear is in the stomach, then we'll find out who the bear is making it. It is like a fruit: if you don't allow yourself to look into what is in the fruit, to know what is it about the fruit, then we find out from which tree it has fallen. And if we know what wood it's fallen from, then we'll know what that fruit has inside. That is what we wanted to clarify with this request, so there were such very specific questions that would help to light up the tree from which the tree then fell, because at the moment it is presented to us as such a mystical no less or the fruit of Eden, which conceals all the sin of the world, or something... but in no way has political officials touched it. These questions, if answered, would light them up. I therefore call on my fellow Members, if you really want to live up to the promise given to the people of Latvia, namely to do your job in good faith, if you really want to help the public to know who is actually responsible for it and what involvement it has been to political officials, those officials who may need to vote again in a year's time, I believe that it would be our duty to help clarify it. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of this request, especially here I appeal to my colleagues from the New Conservative Party, because with this vote, you will, with your decisive votes, confirm what is more important to you: the promises and principles made to your constituents, or the possibility of staying at the base of power for as long as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U159	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Pugas?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U160	On behalf of the Commission, this request from Members was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U161	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Ločmelė, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementyev's request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On actions of Latvian officials and the real ones responsible for the procurement of vaccines. Purchase of BioNTech/Pfizer vaccines’! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. On the agenda - Members Ivars Zariņa, Valērija Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonovas, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementievs' request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts "On actions of Latvian officials and the true responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Modern purchase of vaccines’. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U162	Colleagues! Let's go. The inquiry panel examined the request made by Members of the Saeima Ivars Zariņa, Valija Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Ločmele, Jānis Krišāns and Ivana Klementjev to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On actions of Latvian officials and the true responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Modern Procurement of Vaccines’ (No. 63/P13) and, with 5 votes in favour, 9 against and one Member not voting, admitted that this request from Members should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U163	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Krišjānis Feldman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U164	Dear colleagues! It seems that very recently something like this had to be talked about, and I think it was on another request, but at that time I said that we now have a special parliamentary committee in the Saeima, which is doing its work. I would call on Mr Zarins to do his best to help colleagues to find out the truth. It should also be recalled that the Prosecutor General's Office has proposed criminal proceedings for possible non-action by persons, which has led to serious consequences, and I think that is also a good direction. But in this case, just like the previous request, I think that nobody can ban Mr. Zarins from speaking for 15 minutes, maybe another five minutes, and I think he still needs to try... I even call on him here, to this request, to also speak for 15 minutes. And another talk at next 15 minutes so we could normally plan your time if. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U165	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U166	Thank you. Following the call by our colleague Krišjānis Feldman to help clarify the truth, we have also prepared these requests. Why did we have to prepare them? Regrettably, those who could help to clarify the truth did not want to reveal the truth. Moreover, they are trying to hide this truth in all possible ways and try to distort it, to build up their alternative truth. The findings that we find gradually in connection with the purchase of these vaccines confirm this. Even with regard to these results of the service test. We see that what has been done by the Ministry of Health, including by the existing political leadership, is that they have not actually tried to reveal, as I said, the true course of these events, but rather to create an alternative reality, to hide the essence. Why can we talk about this? Because, as I mentioned to you, I showed you the facts... There are evidence of this, which suggests. With our questions, we are now revealing this truth. How does this happen? Let me explain. Why are there so many questions? Why is there so much to explain these events, because it is obvious that not all who should study and understand these nuances want to do so. Then, as has already been called, we help to find out what is going on. So what has now been done. There is a service test that has built up this alternative reality. What we are doing is checking whether this information that has been provided in the course of the service inspection is true or not, or whether the alternative reality that is being created by the management of the Ministry of Health that we have at our disposal, and all that is connected with this report. And it's like a painting. So there's a painting, and I make sure it's really an authentic, true painting, or it's some kind of painting forgery. How can this be done? According to this known saying, the devil is hiding in detail. So what we are seeing right now, if you look at this painting that you've been drawn to, you think it's real -- a real job, a real work of an artist that's served, let's say how Rembrandt's or Van Gogh's work. You look, you really look like that! It's as if it's the same. And then you're starting to study some details. As if everything coincides, it really shows that this is a real painting, and then suddenly you see some small details that don't match. But if you look at the whole painting, you can also believe that it is real. But there are some details. And then what do those who try to sell you this painting as the truth? They say no, they're small details, don't pay attention to it, but the whole picture coincides! But what is the nature of this matter? If some details do not match in this painting, it is a forgery, meaning that in fact the whole painting is a forgery. This means that it has actually not been as much as it is being given to you. And that's what we've got at the moment, breaking this afer, like with OIC. Thus, from the beginning, you have completely different reality, the truth is hidden, but gradually, looking at this clay that is being offered to you, you are starting to separate and see discrepancies. And now we've come to them. Let us again show a few interesting details about this. There's a fake in front of us. First of all, we asked the Minister for Health itself a specific question - so, given that he is showing us this grinding as the truth, this verification of the service, this story about the fact that there was a working group that no one had created, which had no clear mandate, nor tasks, that this was the working group where officials themselves had accepted everything and... without informing the Ministry’s management, it has thus taken such a decision... and that was what later had been the reason why these vaccines had not been bought... we asked: do you personally consider such a procedure for your officials to be credible? Since we are going to the second circle and the same lies are not really working anymore in this second circle, something else needs to be considered. And then the Minister, realizing that there must be an absolute one and that there must be a detachment from the principles of public administration so that something like this can be said, so that it really... he also believes that this is what has appeared to be a new rhetoric. Contrary to what was said earlier in this Service Report - that the Service Report does not reveal any information, proof that the Ministry of Health's leadership would have been involved in this process - is already said to have... what can be concluded from information obtained in a disciplinary case... then the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health was informed about the work of the established ad hoc working group, while the Minister of Health Ilze Viņķele had entrusted the decision at expert level. Well, see, it's starting to get out of the way. Now they'll tell you, no, no, they haven't been there, they don't know anything. What is significant here, even in one of this sentence given by the Minister for Economic Affairs... Minister of Health. So one thing we see is that the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health has been informed. Then the question is: if she was informed and if we were told that the Ministry of Health had not taken any orders, it would have been reasonable to find out how the State Secretary, the Chief Officer of the Ministry of Health, has responded to her in the back door... Imagine, that's what we're trying to present -- that she's in the back-- without her order, there is some working group that meets, works and accepts without her... So without her mandate, some important decisions... Does that seem very reliable? But now we know that she's been informed, she knew about it. Then there is a clear mismatch, a fundamental mismatch or simply a fundamental negligence and irresponsibility that has occurred. Similarly, if we are now talking about what is officially announced that the Minister for Health, Ilze Viņķele, had entrusted the issue with the task of deciding at expert level. Expert level decision making! Experts give their opinion, but decisions are taken by the responsible officials - at least by the responsible officials - or at the political level, as should have been the case, if this power had declared that this is a really matter of principle, the way out of the crisis, the only way they see how they are going out of it. So this one is... One phrase already gives so much substance to reflection and investigation organs what to do. And here too, I turn... also to this committee of inquiry - then find out exactly how then the secretaries of the state that she has known and how she has assessed this situation have been. Go on. An important question is: if the mandate of this working group was not established, as was stated in the service report and in all the information that is being provided to us, where does that working group have the right to take the above decision? If Viņķele says, “You decide for yourself!” , but no authority has given, no order has been, how could these people then decide? And here we come to the next interesting contradictions, which are starting to mark, as I have already mentioned to you, just like breaking the OIC-field. We approach the next threshold, when these grains of truth begin to fall out, then the defendants begin to recede in their lies. Thus, the Commission’s replies state that “there is no procedure under either external or internal law, as well as the authorities responsible for concluding a contract of purchase on behalf of the Member States of the European Commission”... Yeah, yeah, yeah... There... ‘which assesses and adopts a final decision on the purchase of certain vaccines and their extent’. Further, ‘The Ministry of Health has not issued a working group for coordinated discussion and final decision on the purchase of vaccines’. So there has not been this order, and so what is being served is when... if there was nothing like that, then the whole process should have happened in accordance with existing laws and regulations... the procedures laid down. And here are called the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations No. 330 ‘Convention rules’, saying that certain bodies which participated in this working group had these powers and even the responsibilities arising from those rules. There is an interesting nuance here. Yes, these responsibilities lie with these specific institutions, and there is a certain procedure, as was to be decided, but there is no saying that there was... Firstly, there is nothing about such a working group that it would have some competence and rights and... secondly, that this should be done within the framework of such a working group. On the contrary, if you now refer to these rules... and here, as they say, the defendants themselves have been digging out a pit for themselves, having opened the gates they wanted to close... then, when we read these rules, we see that to professional... I quote in particular paragraph 9 of these regulations: "In order to professionally assess and propose national vaccination and immunisation policies, as well as to evaluate vaccine orders, the Minister for Health shall set up an advisory Council and approve its rules of procedure for the State of Immunisation. The members of the Council shall not be remunerated for these activities.’ Yeah, so if it happens... a reference to the fact that, you see, the institutions that are under the law of this working group were involved in this work group, which are obliged to decide on these issues, then there is a specific process that is described how these issues are to be decided. Moreover, here it has been said that the Minister for Health is directly involved in this whole process. He's running it. And he confirms it. So one lack of conformity. Next inconsistency. On the Disease Prevention and Control Centre, which “is planning the necessary number of vaccines to carry out the vaccination calendar, taking into account demographic data and the average consumption of the product, and is coordinated with the Ministry of Health”. There's an incoherence again. So they had to harmonise, they had no right to accept it all themselves - all the more in an emergency situation, and all the more so. So the next question was justified. How and how did the members of this working group know about their powers and powers to take such a decision? We asked for this position from the Ministry of Health to be justified. Answer: ‘ According to the information obtained in the course of the service inspections and disciplinary proceedings, the members of the working group did not individually define a specific mandate or role in decision-making.’ But then, colleagues, there is a question where they knew that they had such a mandate at this working group meeting? And that is what I now draw attention to the parliamentary committee of inquiry: colleagues, these are the specific issues that should be clarified. Another interesting, serious block within this request is whether and how the Ministry of Health's leadership was involved in this decision. And there's an interesting nuance that's never been investigated again, because if, on the one hand, we know that the health minister gets rid of all forms of being involved in this process, on the other hand, we see those responsible officials who are now trying to make them responsible and guilty, such as Sven Hankmann... why there are no specific questions asked to find out what his actual involvement was and what he, as the responsible official, was... or and how he has communicated with his leadership, with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health and with the Ministers. Since, in the so-called service investigation, we did not want to find out why, within the framework of this request, we asked the Minister for Health to clarify and provide us with this information, that is, what he had to do: he had to obtain this information by order, to ask this official to account and to continue providing it to us. No wonder the Ministry of Health desperately does not want to do so. And here I appeal again to the committee of inquiry - clarify that fact, because I understand that although Hankuzen was invited to take part in this parliamentary committee of inquiry, these questions were not put to him for any reason. Mr Kozlovsky, you are the leader, you are responsible for this, you were the one who voted against this request and who did not want to obtain this information from the Commission. If you are not doing this now, as chairman of the committee of inquiry, please ensure that this information is already provided to you as head of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Colleagues from the parliamentary commission! I ask you to ask, so ask... call once again on Mr Hankuzen and ask him these questions and find out the truth as it was, so on the one hand, and on the other, Mr Hankuzen, on the other, the responsible officials who took these decisions, who took part in these decisions, and on the other hand, on the leadership of the Ministry of Health, who said: "No, no, no, we do not know anything, we were not told." And then align these versions, and you will have a basis for further questions, a basis for reflection. I think it is essential to do so. Within the framework of this request, it has not been answered. And that's why we believe that Parliamentary Commissions of Inquiry have so far dealt not with investigations but with sabotage, with the binding of tasks assigned to them... we call for support for this request, because we believe that the answers to these questions are important - essential! - and have not been provided. With this in mind, we will come a good step closer to the truth that has then been responsible and how these decisions have actually been made, and has it really been that the officials have made those responsible decisions on their own hands, as they are being presented to us. Colleagues! I call on us to support this request, especially those political forces that stand up for responsible action by power. Confirm your promises by voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U167	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U168	Hello, colleagues! I will, of course, call on you to vote in favour of this request, because the documents... and information about this procurement is very important not only for us MEPs but for society as a whole, because it is about the possible waste of public funds, about action that has resulted in a reduction in the rate of human life and vaccination in the hottest times of the pandemic. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in the debate on this request from Mr Feldman, a UK Member, was allowed to be openly disdained about the Saeima... on the Saeima, on Members of the Saeima and on the effectiveness of the Saeima's working instruments. I think that is absolutely unacceptable. This is not the first time. Other Members, including the chairman of the commission - the head of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs - also allow this to be done, Mr Kaimiņš. And I would like the Commission on Mandates, Ethics and Application to deal with these cases as a generally unacceptable practice that is degraded in the public eyes of the Saeima, the work of the Saeima and the working instruments of the Saeima Members. Of course, JPOs are used to running a country with the help of tweet recordings and then lying that, behold, they had not thought so. I guess he's drunk. This has also been the case in Mr. Kaimiņš' history - that from the beginning something is being done and then thought about when the public is directing him. Mr. Eglitis was followed by Mr. Cielēns, who in the recent Commission for Public Administration and Local Government Affairs then... Forgiveness... when Mr Valaiņš was elected as the Head of the Sub-Commission for the Development of the Municipal System, not his nominated Mr Budriķis, but Mr Valaiņš, openly recorded in the sub-commission's chat room that we should not rejoice, there will now be grounds for a review of the candidacy of the Grand Commission of Public Administration and Local Government. Third case. During the meeting of the Baltic Assembly, Mrs Beitnere-Le Gallas questioned the work of the prosecutor's office and pointed out almost openly that, if Mr Adamson was clearly guilty, then Mr Juiškas could indeed be innocent. What are we talking about? ( Pause) I'm out of my way.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U169	Mrs Ločmele, I would like to point out to you that we are debating the request. You're a little way away from the question.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U170	Yes, thank you, thank you, but that was exactly when I began to talk about your actions.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U171	No, I have no objections.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U172	And I wanted to point out to you that it is also the responsibility of the head of the Saeima sitting to keep abreast of members of the Saeima. But when I speak of Mr Feldman, I can recommend that Mr Feldman set aside his mandate if he does not like Mr Zariņš' passionate desire to defend the interests of his constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U173	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U174	Okay. Well, thank you. Let's go back to the demand. So what is going to need and who remains of the mandate will be decided by the voters. I think that everything will be clear very soon, because, as we know, the first time we are elected for what we are promising, the second time we are already assessing what we have done. But, specifically on this request, once again, I would like to highlight the attention of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, particularly Mr Kozlovsky. So the essential things that... who has not responded to this request and what I think... this is essential information if you really want to find out the truth in your investigation commission and actually do the investigation, not the simulation and the cover, irresponsible coverage... Then specifically, in order to understand what has happened to this process and who is responsible for it, it is important to find out, first of all, how this commission was set up... this working group, which took these decisions, because it could not... Those fairy tales that are told that it was formed spontaneously by itself, like life and man... then here is too short a period of time for it to happen... in such a way. So, how did this group come up? Who created it? Next, how did the participants learn about the powers, about the powers given to them? Where was... the power for them to take these decisions, because if we are now told that they were themselves... They came together and did it... How did they know they had such authority to decide at this meeting, in this task force? Because we can see, nowhere... any evidence that no order or order has been issued. The regulatory framework does not provide for this either. What is more, legislation sets a completely different order. These are matters of principle. Go on. Next, what is in principle understood - what information has been... The truth... exchange of information. Is it really the case that the officials themselves, without knowing their powers, have made these important decisions, but in fact there has been a completely different scenario and quite other reasons why these decisions have been progressing? And it is very simple to clarify this by asking these questions specifically to this working group and then clarifying this exchange of information between those responsible officials who have allegedly decided and the political leadership of the Ministry of Health. These are matters of principle. Why I tell you all this and why it is important for you to take this into account, especially you, Mr Kozlovsky, I will tell you this at the next request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U175	I closed the debate. Mr. Pugas, on behalf of the Commission, please... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U176	On behalf of the Commission, this request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U177	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Ločmelė, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementyev's request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On actions of Latvian officials and the real ones responsible for the procurement of vaccines. Modern purchase of vaccines”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request was rejected. On the agenda - Members Ivars Zariņa, Valērija Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonovas, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementievs' request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļuts "On actions of Latvian officials and the true responsible for the purchase of vaccines. Participation of the management of the Ministry of Health’. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U178	Thank you. The inquiry panel examined the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Valija Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonovas, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Lochmeles, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementievs, Minister of Health, Daniels Pavļutas, for actions of Latvian officials and true responsibilities in relation to purchase of vaccines. Engagement of the Ministry of Health Management’ (No. 64/P13) and, by voting on 5 in favour, 9 against and one Member, admitted that this request from Members should also be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U179	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U180	We continue to divide this fairy tale, which is presented to us as a reality. I mean, as I said, how everything has been decided... that it has decided... All officials are responsible for this... all this happened in the working group and the Ministry of Health has not been involved in it. As we already know, that is not true, from the answers of the respondents themselves. However, by continuing to split up, we asked specific questions that were very clear about how much it really is the responsibility of the officials and to what extent it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Health. So one half of this story we have already dealt with in a previous request, namely, to find out what was then a specific framework, the scope of the mandate, to these officials so that we can understand whether they have actually done or violated something, or acted within their powers, and how they have at all to decide what they have to do. So we could find out. However, it is not why, or rather, for reasons well understood, the Saeima, the ruling coalition, chose that it should be hidden from society, that it should not be found out. Unfortunately, I am drawing attention! - also the chairman of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, who is to conduct the investigation process for the purchase of these vaccines, voted against the provision of information enabling the truth to be learned. And here I would call on him to apply for a debate and explain my position, otherwise I call... Perhaps this is a good reason for the committee of inquiry to change such management, because it is obvious that this board is currently engaged in sabotaging the investigation process and is not interested in establishing the truth. This is confirmed by its votes. Why it would also be important to think about it, I will explain it later. But what about this request? So it's also an interesting episode that will make you all think who else... have to think at all about what is actually happening. So, according to the fairy tale that is being presented to us, it is said that the health ministry's leadership was not involved in this process, did not know anything. Then the political leadership, especially the Minister, is, as he says, an naive virginity, which was in good faith hoping that his officials would do everything about him and make all their decisions... He didn't even know who we're hard to believe, considering... if you follow all the previous story about both the scope of the mandate and the process, how it all happened... that there has been no order, no task for this task force... evidence that it could not have been. However, whether it was or not, it could simply be clarified by asking specific questions to these working group members, the responsible officials who took part in this decision... It appears that it has participated in the adoption of this Decision. So ask them whether they have informed the health ministry's management or not about their decision, what is happening in the working group. There's a test in the service, he could have found out, right? It turns out that this verification of the service did not know at all, it did not need to know at all how it was then - whether there was this connection or not. In principle, however, this is an important issue, especially if they really want to clarify the responsibilities of these political officials. And here I appeal again to the parliamentary committee that this is your job now. Why is your job? Because, within the framework of this request, almost all a friendly coalition was, of course, of the opinion that it should under no circumstances be clarified, in no case should this information be obtained. I mean, what information? Ask for these explanations from the working group members whether they have provided such information to the Ministry of Health or not. As I said, the verification of service has not done so. That is why we also made this further request, because when the Minister for Health said that, you know, in the course of the verification of the service, we had not found out anything, then we said: well, here's the request, and you had to report now to Parliament and provide these answers, as stipulated in the Constitution... you have to figure out a simple order yourself... please provide specific explanations... explanations, whether you have or not, and what you have said to the Minister for Health in connection with these procurements about your decisions, or have you really done all of this on your own hands. It can be found in elementary terms - elementary! This was not done, and neither was it done now that it was specifically imposed. The question is, why, with what goal? It's worth thinking. Colleagues from the Investigation Commission, do it now, take this list of working groups! There are the heads of the relevant institutions who have allegedly taken part in this decision and ask these specific questions to show them. If they say that they have not said anything to the Minister for Health and have done all this in their own hands, ask who has given them that authority. And maybe this, let's say, licking the window and then taking responsibility. The second thing that could have been done very clearly is to ask the Minister for Health specifically about these episodes, which information has been provided to them. All this has been quite episodic, about individual episodes has been asked about individual - not why is it not asked. And the answer to why... Having regard to both the fact that there is some certain information in the public domain and what Mrs. Viņķele has provided, we asked for a specific question... that it is not clear from the information provided whether and what information was received by Ilze Viņķele. And we asked why the explanation of Ilze Viņķelis had still not been clarified and received, what information and from which of these decisions of the working group had been received by the Minister for Health at that time. What has been said to us is that this is not the case... in words... what has been done is already roughly clear and concrete. I quote a specific sentence from the reply: ‘The information obtained during the verification of the service leads to the conclusion on the extent to which the Ministry of Health’s leadership was involved, did not engage in decision-making, as well as to draw conclusions for political officials’. This is a very significant sentence, because in principle it describes almost everything that the Minister for Health is doing right now. He speaks of beautiful round phrases, expressions that have nothing at all at the bottom. It is simple, apologies, empty-mouse, beautiful voice-stationed, with which the Health Minister hopes he will pass through, because it is usually enough for society to go through it. But for our part, we were so embarrassed and dared to ask: please tell us about these statements. What have you said now that conclusions can be drawn for political officials in this decision and their involvement? Now give these conclusions! Sometimes three of the various rounds we had to repeat this issue once again, and we did not receive any answers to that question either. So it turned out that it's simply in the best case of emptyness, I'm sorry, embarrassment or, as you say, in all this common context, it's obvious that someone is trying to get lost and cover up. Colleagues, if you believe that this issue should nevertheless be clarified that it is important for us to clarify the responsibilities of political persons... In particular, here again, I appeal to my colleagues from the New Conservative Party - it was you who were passionate, I remember, at least or as revolutionary to the barricades, to tell you how you will bring the new policy, how you will make the power to be responsible. This is the time for your promises. Your voices will be crucial so that we can clarify this crucial issue in this whole story, which is very important for our country as a way out of the communion crisis... the purchase of vaccines. It is obvious that no answers have been given to any of the questions. The respondents have avoided replying, requested information. Your votes will be decisive. Mr Kozlovsky, your vote will also be important. You were the one who voted against this request against this information. Then I'm asked: how do you, as the head of the committee of inquiry... What's your plan? You have still not entered the debate. Does that mean that you are hiding your position? This means that we have reason to believe that this will be the next investigation commission that will be destroyed? I would ask you to think very seriously. So again: Why would it be important for you to ask all these questions? I hope you have recorded them. If you fail to record in the minutes, because sooner or later the political processes will determine that if my colleagues from the New Conservative Party still want to fulfil their promises to the voters and gradually begin to realise that they are threatening to go to the political manure when they are in an existing coalition with you, such a moment is coming. Sooner or later, you can meet in the Saeima parties that are in opposition... There will be several parties in the coalition, because when it comes to the same thing as that of the KPV LV party, that the political group has survived and Members have gone away... Despite the fact that you will have more votes purely numerically, the number of political groups will be higher for the opposition. And then we're going to make a new investigation commission that will investigate who we're going to be here with a road map, and in parallel, we're going to investigate why the previous investigation commission didn't reveal these cases and why it didn't want to work with it. Mr Kozlovsky, you need to think well. If you want to cover the entire sphere, all of these powers that have now taken place under an emergency cover, if you are ready to become a political body, you can, of course, do so. But it is best that you will be a political body. It may also be necessary to talk here about a much more serious responsibility for covering this process. So you're worth thinking about what you're doing and recording all the issues I'm talking about now, because if now... you know all this now, these questions are known specifically, which need to be clarified. These questions will also be referred to you by the Commission, and you will have to explain them afterwards, and most likely it will be like once in the elections, why you have not done so, and what you have actually done. Colleagues! I call for this request to be supported, and I also call on the New Conservative Party, in particular, to remember the promises made to its constituents and to prove by my vote that your principles, your promises, are more important to you than the chance of being in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U181	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Pugas?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U182	Thank you. On behalf of the Commission, this request was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U183	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Valeria Agešina, Vladimirs Nikonova, Arthur Rubika, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Ribakova, Edgars Kucina, Regina Ločmelė, Jānis Krišāns, Ivana Klementyev's request to the Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On actions of Latvian officials and the real ones responsible for the procurement of vaccines. Engagement of the Ministry of Health’! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. On the agenda - Member Ralfa Nemiro, Kaspars Ģirgena, Erika Pucena, Julia Stepanenko, Viktora Valaiņa, Edgars Tatara, Ulda Augulis, Raimonda Bergmanis, Didžas Šmita, Māra Možvillo's request to the Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis "On your public statements on the control of national, EU funds and other financial flows". On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U184	Thank you. The Panel examined the requests made by members of the Saeima Ralfa Nemiro, Kaspars Ģirgena, Erika Pucena, Julia Stepanenko, Viktora Valaiņa, Edgars Tatara, Ulda Augulis, Raimonds Bergmanis, Didžas Šmits and Māra Možvillo, Minister for Welfare, Gatims Eglitis, about your public statements on the control of state, EU funds and other financial flows (No. 68/P13) and by voting 4/in favour, 9/no, admits that the request made by Members must be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U185	Thank you. The floor to the Member, Ralph Nemir, was opened. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U186	Dear Chairman of the Saeima sitting! The Secretary of State took part in this Panel of Requests, giving his explanations. Several Members, of course, raised legitimate questions about the Members' statements, which have not already been once but several times. However, without leaving the frame of the demand, in this case only on the request that we made as Members, we received answers and also also apologies from the Minister for such a failed communication. I have to say, this failed communication has been within demand... have been after the elections. Consequently, the attempt to influence the results of the elections has not really taken place, but it has been attempted to divide the population (at least in terms of the opinion that has been expressed in social networks) into two parts: one that is in favour of government parties and the other that is not in favour of government parties. In this case, the question raised much more extensively within the Commission: in this case, is it justified to carry out such a classification in general, and is such communication acceptable, taking into account also the President of Latvia's statement? The Minister apologised during the commission meeting. I think that was a real man’s acceptable course. Of course, many Members, my colleagues, too, had other issues that also seemed to be well-founded. But given the very frame and content of the demand itself, this request is not, therefore, to support it, given that the Minister has just begun his work and is probably not yet aware that senior officials, including ministers, are not yet able... in other words, it is not yet possible to be fully aware of the importance of every word... and social networks also written. Therefore, I myself, having heard the arguments of the Minister referred to during the Panel of Petitions, will not support this request as well, but in the future we will, of course, follow the Minister's statements. Well, if it is fair and if we are looking at us a little forward, very recently the Minister came up with a new statement, that is, the Minister is considering encouraging part of the contribution to the second pension level to be redeployed in favour of the existing pensioners. Colleagues, there will probably be new questions here again, because if this type of action is taken, it actually means that those people who pay social contributions today and hope for their pension will be stolen. In this case, the minister himself will be stolen, he will steal himself, if this way a decision is made. And what kind of signal are we really going to give to society, especially to those who pay taxes? There is a constant battle against envelope salaries, and the envelope wages... Within the framework of the fight, it is stated that the taxes paid by people ensure precisely the amount of their pension. If this is followed by statements from the Minister for Welfare that, in fact, it is quite the opposite: money is redistributed from future income in favour of the cost of today's pensions, no pensioner, including his children, will, of course, choose. Undoubtedly, there was also the right idea. The theme was correct for the fact that pension savings, funds are currently invested not in Latvian economy, but in economies of other countries. But this issue is indistinguishable at the moment, on the contrary, it is completely separable and, of course, we have to work on it. That is why it is precisely for this reason that the Minister's mandate of trust, which we gave when we voted in the Saeima, must continue if the Minister continues to work in good faith and nevertheless respects the oral discipline set by the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U187	I'm closing the debate... The debate is therefore not yet closed. I ask Members to apply in good time. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U188	I tried to apply in time, but it turns out that not only the individual Members are tired of working, but also the computer system, it turns out, the heart has arrived. However, when it comes to these public statements, the Minister's public statements, I think it really is important to find out not only the responsibility with which it is being said, but what has been... as we know very well how this government works, how the ministers of this government work. So they have their own most unimaginable ideas about how they don't have the courage to make any decisions, often no courage or understanding (this might not be the case for this minister, because we see that he is determined and that some understanding is available to him)... However, it is usually done in a way that throws out some information to the public and then looks at how the public will react. Here Mr Nemiro has already mentioned this new story about this second level of pension systems. Why is this a very worrying reaction from the Ministry of Welfare? Because, in principle, this reaction is after we asked questions to the Minister for Welfare about legitimacy, about the validity of the pension system. And here really, the whole society must listen carefully and follow the course, because what we asked was simple, self-evident, assuming that this minister is really responsible and sufficiently competent in financial matters: give us, please, estimates that the existing pension system in Latvia is sustainable, because unfortunately, neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Ministry of Welfare has been able to do so until now. And it has to be acknowledged here that the answer received is really relatively fair. The Minister for Welfare has acknowledged that, in fact, the Ministry of Welfare does not have such a calculation on which to rely, recognising that the data, all the data on the basis of which the model was created, which was hidden from us and did not in any way want to be presented by the previous ministers, the previous governments, that they are outdated, they are inadequate. And that's a very serious signal. And why a very serious signal? Because, in parallel, we now see that along with the questions asked and the answer received, the Minister for Welfare has come with such statements on the pension system, which perhaps shows that the Minister for Welfare is looking for solutions to make the pension system sustainable, because it is not sustainable on the existing model.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U189	Mr. Zarins, please excuse me. However, we are talking about another request at the moment. Maybe we're on the subject of public statements, about...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U190	These are the public statements expressed by Mr Eglišs now, and that is really what it would be worth thinking about, and here he should come with his comments. I can also not go further than this, because it really is a little wider than the current demand, but I draw attention to it as regards how much the debate has touched on this issue. And I believe that Mr Eglitis, if he is competent and brave enough, should come up with a clear answer on whether there is no sustainable pension system in place, and whether the main reason why this is done is not because he sees that the first level will not ensure fair social refunds for those who have paid it fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U191	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission, Mr. Pugas?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U192	On behalf of the Commission, I would remind you that this request was rejected by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-17-PT13-2278-U193	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ralfa Nemiro, Kaspars Ģirgena, Erika Pucena, Julia Stepanenko, Viktora Valaiņa, Edgars Tatara, Ulda Augulis, Raimonda Bergmanis, Didžas Šmita, Māra Možvillo Minister for Welfare, Gatis Eglitis, about your public statements about the control of state, EU funds and other financial flows! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The request is rejected. Dear colleagues, Consequently, we have finished to look at the agenda for the third remote emergency session of 16 June. Two statements. The first statement concerns Members' questions. Members Karina Sprūde, Jūlija Stepanenko, Lubova Švecova, Ramona Petraviča and Maris Možvillo have submitted a question to the Minister for Welfare Gatis Eglitis “On Social Care Centres”. The question of Members shall be referred to the Minister. And the second - very important - statement. Honourable Members! I would like to inform you that the Bureau has decided to announce the agenda of the second remote emergency session of the Saeima on 17 June... to postpone and consider the session at the end of the inter-sessional period. The Bureau will inform you separately of the specific time and date of the meeting. At the moment, I ask you to take note that the Bureau will hold another sitting today. The Bureau will inform you of the time of the meeting. Registration of the presence of Members... he's done. On 16 June, I closed the third remote emergency sitting.
