ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U1	Honourable Members! We will begin to examine the agenda of the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima on 25 March this year. On the agenda – a draft decision on admission to the citizenship of Latvia on special merits for Latvia. Project “On taking Boris Frumina into Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”. On behalf of the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity, Member Ritvars Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U2	Hello, honourable colleagues! In November 2020, the Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Social Solidarity received an application from the U.S. citizen Boris Frumina, born in 1947, who was born in Latvia for admission to Latvian citizenship. In 1965, Mr. Frumina began to study cinematography and practiced in parallel as a director in Riga’s Kinostatia. Directored several films in the 1970s, one of them in Riga's Kinosta. After emigration to the United States in 1978, Boris Frumin taught the directorship at the New York Institute of Technology and at the University of New York. During the renewed period of the Republic of Latvia, Frimins gave lectures at the Academy of Culture, led the Baltic Film and Media School’s International Film Programme, where talented Latvian film directors were accepted. Boris Frumin is the author of the scenario for the 2019 film Soul Foam, which has become the most watched film in Latvia, has been a candidate for the U.S. Film Academy Oskars Prize as a foreign film distributed in several continents. A very large audience has learned about Latvia from the reviews of the New York Times and The Hollywood Reporter about the “Soul Birds”. The film has strengthened the understanding of the statehood of the Republic of Latvia and its history. As Mr. Frimina pointed out in his application: “I want to make films in my homeland and continue to invest my time and experience in education for young cinema professionals in Latvia, so I want to become a citizen of Latvia so that I can do it fully.” Granting Latvian citizenship is recommended by the Ministry of Culture, Theatre of Daile, Directors Dzintars Dreibergs, Jānis Streičs, Gatis Šmits. The Commission on Citizenship, Migration and Public Solidarity assessed the documents submitted by the applicant for citizenship, the request for additional information. The Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs has carried out a verification and is of the opinion that the restrictions laid down in the Citizenship Law do not apply to the applicant for citizenship. On 24 March this year, the Commission listened to the applicant for citizenship, Boris Frumina, and supported his admission to Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia. Mr Frumina gave and has signed a promise of trust in the Republic of Latvia by acquiring Latvian citizenship. On behalf of the Commission, I call on you to support the admission of Boris Frumina to Latvian citizenship for special merits.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U3	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On taking Boris Frumina into Latvian citizenship for special merits for Latvia”! Please, let's vote! No, 73, against and refrains. Decision adopted. Congratulations to the citizen of Latvia - Boris Frumina! On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Anda Čakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U4	Hello, colleagues! The Commission of Social and Labour Affairs has received from the Cabinet of Ministers a draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance Case”. The draft law provides for an extension of the period of payment of the unemployment benefit, taking into account the social and economic consequences of Covid-19. The period of payment of the allowance has been extended from the current four months to six months. In the Commission, this draft law is defined as... after having obtained the urgency. The request is to support the urgency of this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U5	Colleagues! So we will vote for urgency. No Members have applied for the urgency to speak. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law “On Unemployment Insurance”” as urgent! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent. And Members want to apply for a debate. That is how Mr. Krishan had applied for the debate. If that is not the case, and if you want to debate this bill, please apply. Members have not applied for a debate. Please the rapporteur of the microphone commission, Anda Chakša.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U6	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U7	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U8	Deadline for the submission of proposals: 15 minutes. Request for consideration of the next Saeima extraordinary sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U9	Is the request related to the examination today, on 25 March of this year, or on any other day?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U10	Today.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U11	So today, March 25, this year. So the deadline for the proposals - 15 minutes by 14.5 a.m. on 25 March this year, and consideration by the Saeima at its sitting - today, 25 March this year. The next item is "Transfers of draft law to commissions and 1st reading". Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education presented by the Education, Culture and Science Commission be referred to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of handing over the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” to the Commission on Education, Culture and Science, which states that it is the committee responsible! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Let us start with this at first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, Member Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U12	The Education, Culture and Science Commission asks the Saeima to urgently consider amendments to the Law on Higher Education, which is related to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2020 and concerns Article 56 as well as some of the points of the transitional provisions. It is related to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, which concerns language in higher education institutions. On behalf of the Commission, please support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U13	Let's start a debate. The name is Mr. Janis Wuzan.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U14	Hello, colleagues! I wanted to talk about the urgency of this draft law, because as far as I understand it was intended to see it as urgent at the committee meeting. And I wanted to speak against urgency, justifying that the corresponding decision of the Constitutional Court was already in June last year... on the use of languages... Article 56 of the Law on Higher Education, which most directly affects private universities. As we have heard, the amendments proposed at the committee meeting have not been discussed with the Association of Private Universities. So, in my view, the question, however... Although the Constitutional Court has imposed on the Saeima... normal... So adjust Article 56 before 1 May this year... In my view, however, the institutions most affected should at least discuss this issue. I therefore call for the draft law at first reading to be supported, but for urgency not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U15	I ask the rapporteur of the microphone commission, Maria Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U16	Colleagues! When I first said that the Commission was asking for urgent consideration, it was a request for urgency.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U17	So, I understand, the commission has asked for the said draft law to be declared urgent. Do colleagues want to talk about the urgent recognition of the draft law? Mrs Papules, will you talk about it or 'no'?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U18	I will say 'no'.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U19	So Evija Papule, a Member, has applied to speak against.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U20	Thank you. Dear Chairman and colleagues of the Saeima. Supporting the words of our colleague Jānis Vacāns... It is clear that this draft law must, on the one hand, be urgent, because the Ministry of Education and Science has presented it in fact only yesterday or yesterday... and then a lot more. This means that, in fact, also because of the political leadership of the Ministry, this issue has not been included in the normal... in the order of business. And the provision of the Constitutional Court is such that before 1 May such amendments to the Law on Higher Education must be made. It would be... first... Either, to a certain extent, a reflection sentence. I said 'no' because the debate in the Commission... Yes, indeed, there was no real time in the Commission either for discussions with the Association of Private Universities, and that is to say, an association that represents precisely those who, to some extent, were also promoters of applicants to talk about the use of languages in the field of private education in higher education. Prior to that, there was no such discussion with the relevant ministry - industry - and there was practically no such discussion at our committee meeting yesterday or yesterday. Thus, there is rather little justification for urgency. His urgency... Edit... in this case, an unnegotiated question... In order for universities, private universities, among them, to prepare for the execution of certain decisions... There has been a lack of discussion time. In any case... realising that the state language must be dominant and develop... at higher education level, and also in the field of science... It is clear that this ban or the amendments tabled directly affect the private sector. We know that rules on the use of languages in the European Union have been agreed, but at the same time there are discussions about the fact that the Ministry has also included norms that have not been discussed with representatives of national universities. Therefore, in this case, of course, the handover of the draft law to the Education, Culture and Science Commission is meaningful and justified, but I ask you to think about urgency. This is a very serious step towards making the use of the national language sound and also intelligently stronger at a higher education level. I call on you to vote against the urgency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U21	No Member has applied to speak on the grounds of urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 54, for - 24, for - 7. The draft law has been declared urgent. And now we are starting a debate on the draft law at first reading. The name to Member Evia... So Mrs Papules does not want to speak. Name to Member Edgar Kucin.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U22	Hello, colleagues! In its judgment, the Constitutional Court indicated that the right to higher education should be recognised as one of the aspects of the right to education. Higher education combines two indistinguishable aspects: the education process and scientific activities and research. The right to education at the level of higher education cannot be exercised without the freedom of teaching staff and students, as well as the autonomy of educational institutions. The exercise and protection of academic freedom for students and teachers requires autonomous universities. These are universities which, within the framework of their autonomy, can make decisions free of external pressure in order to secure academic freedom. The Constitutional Court concluded that Section 56(3) and Article 49 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Higher Education restrict the academic freedom of private university teaching staff to develop and teach study courses in foreign languages in Latvian private higher education institutions, because this regulation affects the possibility for university teaching staff to participate in study programmes in foreign languages. Colleagues! On the basis of the above, the Constitutional Court decided to recognise Section 56(3) of the Law on Higher Education and Paragraph 49 of the Transitional Provisions insofar as the norm applies to private universities, their teaching staff and students, as being incompatible with Articles 112 and 113 of the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. The Ministry of Education and Science had more than eight months to prepare the draft law according to the decision of the Constitutional Court. And what do we see today in the new version of the draft law? Upon getting to know it, there is an impression that the Ministry of Education and Science has met with a judgment of the Constitutional Court or has not seen it at all. In fact, ISM has limited itself to rewording the individual sentences of Section 56(3) without taking into account that it has once been declared inappropriate by the Constitutional Court. In the new wording of the draft law there is still no distinction between state and private universities, although the Constitutional Court indicated that in the present case it assessed the norm in accordance with the Satversme - insofar as it concerns the rights of the teaching staff of private universities and students as well as those of private universities included in the Constitution. I will also draw your attention to the fact that the process of preparing and adopting the draft law is not at all in line with the principle of good lawmaking, it was not discussed with experts in the field, nor was it fully discussed and analysed by the parliamentary committee. The draft law preparers have not assessed and offer alternative means to achieve the objective, which would be less vulnerable to the rights of students, teachers and universities. The initiators of the proposed version have not also assessed compliance of the norms with European Union law. In fact, the provision continues to restrict the freedom of establishment protected by Article 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and constitutes a restriction of competition law, therefore I believe that the restriction of fundamental rights, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court in its judgment, still exists. Article 56 of the Law on Higher Education... The wording of the first reading - the new - still limits the autonomy of private universities. By allowing the adoption of the draft law, we can again come to court. I call on you not to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U23	The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U24	Thank you, President. Little to add to what Mr Kucin has already said. It is, of course, necessary to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court not only in time, but also in essence, and not formally, because in fact very little changes in this context. And obviously... Colleagues, you know that the part of the case will continue to be dealt with by the European Court of Justice, and some materials are already available... It should be stated that the Commission generally supported the position of the applicants. Consequently, there is no point in adopting amendments which will then need to be reviewed again. I had the impression that the Ministry of Education and Science wanted to change something without changing anything. And indeed, will the whole process have to be repeated? We talk a lot about the international competitiveness of Latvian universities, internationalisation and so on, but at the same time we want to maintain regulation that in fact doubts and undermines their international competitiveness. No point I can't see. I believe that this draft law does not actually comply with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, so I call for a vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U25	The name of Member Rainis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U26	Dear colleagues, I just wanted to point out, actually almost continuing Boris Cilevič's idea... Member Cilevičs pointed out that one of Latvia's higher education priorities is international competitiveness. And that is what we reaffirm with this draft law. We know how international competitiveness is mostly measured by universities - so its best, most powerful universities are in the Western world. And we reaffirm with this draft law, with amendments, that the system of higher education in Latvia is appropriate for the West... Let us say, the values of the Western world, it is aimed at the language of the European Union - different languages... Thus, the opportunity to present itself in these languages. Similarly, third-country languages that teach their culture taught their language... This is permitted, so also in the languages of third countries. Most importantly, we want to strengthen their competitiveness in the context of Europe and the Western world. That is why, too, these amendments proposed by the Ministry of Education and Science, once again confirm this belonging, this path, this international competitiveness that we are moving towards and, of course, do not exclude culture and language... higher education... studies related to different cultures and countries, say, the environment... acquisition of the cultural environment. I therefore call for this draft law to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U27	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U28	Thank you, Madam President. Well, in this case, the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry showed quite a narrow implementation of the Constitutional Court ruling. In its ruling, the Constitutional Court has mentioned that the legislator and therefore the Ministry of Industry must evaluate alternative options, alternative ways. And at this moment, these alternative ways would probably be expected in the private education sector, in the private higher education sector, which, of course, works according to Latvian legislation, according to Latvian regulations and the interests of the national state. And yet the names of these alternative types were not in the Commission's discussions either. Thus, the Ministry has not complied with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, and it is also the main subject of discussions, not whether they are only languages of the countries of the European Union or any other cases. At this point, there is a question of how the Ministry of Industry sees cooperation with private higher education, for example, the Association of Providers... of which. Go on. We know very well that the 21st century brings some changes to economic development as well, and therefore to exports of higher education. And this export of higher education is not always due only to competition between the Member States of the European Union, but also outside the European Union. And at this point, it is no longer just a question of language. Another point. Those who work with linguistics and talk less about things that cannot be understood for themselves, for example, about cultural studies and similar things, forgetting art, which is perhaps also a section of culture... Well, forget that at the moment, not only the economic situation, but also the linguistic situation is determined by at least five large, large groups of languages that develop not only their own economic markets, but also by the development of their own cultural cooperation... and the study market. And at this point... It is not necessarily only one of our neighbours, but also a little bit of the way forward, including the Arab countries. It's clear that I don't think... the offer in these, now, in our narrow historical perspective... It is unlikely that such exotic languages will want to be used. But if we're talking about competition between young people, then... Chinese, Arabic... I'm sure... language and several other competing languages, or five big languages, are interesting in the study process - not only from the cultural point of view, but also from the point of view of their competition... Also for young people who could ensure international competition for Latvia in other areas, with the exception of... speaking about culture, but all the more so - talking about art, about which the Ministry of Education and Science had forgotten in its short-sightedness, blindly placing its criteria on... “excellent” or “good”, but not to mention what such amendments to the law give or deprive international competition, Latvian education... studying and studying in Latvia, not in another university that is not a Latvian university. So at this point, I call on you to weigh... I therefore also speak against the urgency, but not against the examination by the Commission... I invite you to weigh... I call on colleagues who are interested in education, economic development and, in particular, education exports, to participate in discussions and to make proposals so that this narrow, non-professional opinion that has just been expressed does not prevail in the decisions of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U29	Colleagues, it's time for a break. Time for notification. Name to Member Andris Flyre.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U30	Hello, colleagues! The meeting of the Committee on Social and Labour Affairs is now at once - five minutes after the end of this sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U31	Obviously not after the end of the sitting, but after five minutes, the meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs. Colleagues, before the break - registration of Members. Registration is over. Interruption until 3.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U32	Dear Members and honourable Members, We shall continue the examination of the agenda of the second remote extraordinary sitting of the Saeima on 25 March after a break. We shall continue to consider the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”. The draft law has been declared urgent. We are in the debate. Member Boris Cilevičs has applied for the debate for the second time. Please! The name to Member Boris Cilevič.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U33	Thank you, Madam President. I am very pleased that the Ministry of Education and Science finally recognised that the use of English and other foreign languages or... greater use will contribute to the competitiveness of Latvian universities. Of course, it is a pity that our arguments were not heard before the Constitutional Court took its decision. And in the Constitutional Court case, ISM desperately defended its previous position. Well, it's better late than ever. The problem is, unfortunately, that these proposed amendments provide only a few exceptions where the use of other foreign languages is possible. And another problem is what my colleague, Mrs Papules, has already said: in fact, these amendments completely ignored the private school... the specifics of private universities, because the case currently being dealt with by the European Court of Justice concerns exactly equal competition, and it is not about languages but about the right of universities from other European Union Member States to work and offer services on the territory of Latvia. And in the absolute majority of countries there are no restrictions, for example, as we know, the Estonian university can offer education not only in Estonian but also in other languages, including Russian, by Mr. Znotiņš... So much fear. So the problem is still not solved. There's a problem there! Of course, the particularities of private universities must be taken into account, different regulation must be established, and that is exactly what the Constitutional Court has said. Unfortunately, the drafting of the amendments did not take this into account. So thank you, Mr Znotiņš, you said everything very well, but only with slogans is not enough. These slogans must be implemented in a specific action and in the rules of the law. Unfortunately, IZM did not do that this time. I therefore still call for these amendments not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U34	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U35	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! The parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science pointed out in his statement that the best universities are in the Western world. Consequently, there is this rule that, if languages other than those of the country are allowed, only those of the European Union. Colleagues, if we look at what is happening to the world's best universities in Top 20, Top 50, we see that universities that are not from the Western world, are not from Europe or from the US. We're watching: 11th place... Nanjan Technological University in Singapore... 11. - also in Singapore, 16. - Cinhua University of Endin. If we are now following Mr. Znotiņš' logic, then we should also record China in that bill... Chinese and Japanese, as universities in these countries are increasingly becoming the best universities in the world. But I suspect... Well, it's not really about it... on English or Chinese or any other, but everything is done not to name one language. And in order not to name it, all those wordings - the languages of the European Union and so on - are being invented. I have a call to coalition colleagues: not to teach yourself so much with those fictions! Find the courage once and name the language in which you don't want anything to happen here... either in higher education or in some other areas! Type in the laws that in Latvia higher education... Well, of course, basically - in the state language, but in some cases it is allowed to organise a learning process in any language of the world, except for the one language you are so afraid of name! My call to you - really find the courage and finally do it. One more point. Colleagues, of course, this... How do I tell you... this passion with this one language... in no way... no such refusal... try to ban it as much as possible, or... whether it was in higher education or somewhere else... Of course, all this is amazing, and you can, of course, swell your shoulders, but that is unfortunately so. But do you ask yourself the question about the consequences of this... How do we call it... for this quality? There are countries like Poland, for example... I called Poland because I know that the political party that is currently in charge of the Ministry of Education and Science, I think is looking with quite a lot at Poland's current political leadership. The same Poland, for example, is working very actively to get foreign students to the maximum - in principle, from the countries from which they best work, because it is more than talent, as young people, as those who will become the next workforce, and so on. In Poland, the current number of foreign students is more than 80 thousand, it is twice as much as it was six years ago, in 2014, and half of these students, the largest group, are students from Ukraine. The second largest group is students from Belarus. Of course, Poland is an attractive country for them to learn, to get a higher education and then perhaps to stay in work, because the Polish language is not so different from Ukrainian, from Belarusian and also from Russian. The Russian-speaking people are quite... can quickly and easily learn to speak Polish, so its advantage is quite great. Of course, that's... in this wish - to ban as much as possible from learning here in this language - we are, of course, taking this opportunity for ourselves - to attract foreign students from the former USSR countries. Here, of course, you can hope that many other universities will succeed in what has been successful for Riga Stradins University - to attract Germans and Norwegians - but the same Polish practice shows that it is not working so hard. In Poland, too, there is a relatively small number of students from these Western European countries, they are mainly studying medicine in medical universities, but nothing else in particular... Well, if it has failed for Poland, it can be said that it will not work here too. In conclusion, therefore, colleagues, what can be said about this? The party responsible for higher education policy in this term... we see how it deals with such issues... Well, what... that is, in principle spend your time. So to convert... put in place council universities... If someone really believes that it will have some success in the great world, then... Regarding whether or not to withdraw the status of a university from Daugavpils University, it is also a very respectful struggle. And to never mention in a word the language in which the teaching process in higher education cannot in any way be organised here. Well, of course, it is also a huge success that can be applauded. But if we look at the fact that for higher education it was, in principle, one major objective in the government declaration... It's not that I set that goal either for the opposition or how... The government declaration placed higher education... One very clear objective has been set: to make the... Well, obviously during this government's lifetime... that at least one Latvian university would be the world's Top 500. Is the Ministry of Education and Science at least a step closer to achieving this? No, no! I think not even a step closer. This goal was, of course, set for our neighbours - for the University of Tartu, for the Estonians. The Estonian people... The University of Tartu, at the time the government declaration was written, was really the world’s top 500. Today the University of Tartu is already the world's Top 200, while the Ministry of Education and Science is dealing with university councils, with whether Daugavpils University is called a university or not, and with the fact that in no way should it be possible to study here in the language that cannot be called a name, at least not in the law, and which is not one of the official languages of the European Union. There is something to congratulate yourself, colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U36	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U37	Perhaps it could really be one of the solutions to bring an end to this nightmare, which has engulfed all of our country and is called 13. The Saeima, namely, to take the most stupid, unthinking and, I would say, even a harmful decision - harmful to the state of Latvia and the society of Latvia. One such decision, of course, concerns language bans in higher education. Why? Let me explain. Perhaps those who are able to understand it, who are able to think in the long term, systemically, who are really interested in the future of the country, and not just to get to the water of power for a short while, get up there, and then no matter what happens to the country. So our main problem is that of our economy, of our economy - and that is what is more and more felt by those in power - is that of the workforce, of the quality of the workforce. Why is this so important that we can exist at all? Because what's happening at the moment... There are things that pose additional challenges, additional importance to this factor, namely, changing the technological foundations of the whole economy, a really real scientific technical revolution - to the very foundations. Such things happen once in several centuries! These changes, which are specifically linked to changes in the technological framework, will be particularly important for a person, because for them to be able to be implemented, it will be particularly important for people with the appropriate knowledge to be present. It can be said that this is the creation of a knowledge economy, where the primary thing will be how people are knowledgeable. We know well what our human resources are, we know well how we can produce ourselves, create ourselves with the right skills. These resources are very limited. If we now put together the economic challenges that are emerging together with the social challenges that we have, then we can see that we will not solve these challenges with our own demographics. And then there are two options here. Either we're going on the path of poverty... and not just the path of poverty, but also the path of destruction... because what will happen as a result of this revolution? As a result of this technological revolution, changing the foundations of the economy? Those countries that will be able to do so will experience rapid development. Those who will not be able to do so - they will not be able to make this rapid development. That means that on the rest of the context... Even if you seem to develop you, you will actually fall behind. You will be lagging behind these other countries. So this lag will be formed, and then it will be felt that we're just going to be pushed out of all the global production chains... production or services, no matter - let's get out of these business chains and get out of the peripherals. That means that what we will be able to do... All that we will do is do that business, those types of activities that bring the least return. It's in many places... just like us now, now, in our economy. Why are we so poor? Why can we not get out of the trap of poverty? Although our people really work hard, we try to do a lot of things, but we are where we are, because... precisely because we did not do the necessary homework in the previous economic cycle. We're in the peripherals, we can only offer products with little... In essence, 90 percent of our economy (there are, of course, also success stories, there are other stories), almost 90 percent of our economy - these are products with little added value or... we are in production chains where we can offer products from which we ourselves have little benefit. The only way we can earn is by using ourselves more than offering more valuable products to ensure our well-being. That's the problem: if we don't start addressing these challenges correctly now, but... on the contrary! What we actually do is we... Our most valuable export goods are our people. This has long been understood by developed countries, and that is how they have built their prosperity - they have drawn ideas into themselves, the brain... And there it gives them a chance... opportunities are materialising. That is what we should do. And if we really appreciate our opportunities, then we understand that the market in which we can get... from which we can draw this brain, these human resources, - it is located, likes someone or doesn't like it, to the east of us. We have very great advantages there. And it would be absolutely stupid - not to use these advantages or even try to cut them off. Therefore, I call on those who really care about the future of Latvia, who still believe that they want to do something permanent... will remain not in the sense of laughing at it and being paid for it, but will be a really permanent one, one that could benefit our country, our society, - I ask you to think about this possibility, however, of how we can use this Eastern market to attract the brain here. We want it or we do not want it, we will need to attract these human resources. And then the question is where we're from... How do we attract them? Do we want to see the stories we now see in Europe? There, they decided to tackle the workforce in a much more radical way, and now we see what is happening there. I think that our path, while we still have the option of choosing, is the so-called smart immigration - the fact that we are attracting targeted people here who can help us create products with higher added value. The brain. And the best, most effective way to do this is through higher education. This is the way Western countries have been pumping away our brain for years. Perhaps for someone it seemed incomprehensible or seemed like an incomprehensible charity: why are other countries willing to educate our students, give them higher education free of charge? The estimate is exactly this: in this way, to obtain high-quality labour resources, which have been raised by another country, spent its money and time on it, now simply collect them. And it will happen everywhere. It's silly for us not to prepare for all this, even more, to cut it off. Therefore, my fellow Members, I call for serious consideration to be given to all this and to realistically assess the situation, to assess the level of our higher education and what we can do. In my opinion, the export of higher education services is one of the most important things; we should develop this because, on this basis, we could develop a range of other sectors that we will not have enough resources. So I ask you to think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U38	Name to Member Arvil Asheraden.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U39	Dear President, I did not apply to speak in the debate, but as the chairman of the commission, I have a request to the Saeima to examine the draft law at second reading... the date to be determined. The Commission has voted in favour of 15 April, but given that the Saeima has supported this reading with less than two thirds of votes in favour of urgency... In order for this law to be adopted before 1 May and announced by the President of Latvia, it is necessary to set a faster date for the examination of the draft law, which is 8 April. I ask the Saeima to take this request into account when setting the date for the second reading of the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U40	I closed the debate. Mrs Golubeva, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U41	I do not wish to add anything on behalf of the Commission, but the Commission voted in favour of the deadline of 1 April and the deadline of 15 April. That is why I also call on you to keep to the words of the chairman of the commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U42	Yeah, thank you. But first of all we must vote on the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! For - 65, for - 21, for - 1. Draft legislation supported at first reading. We can now set both the deadline for the submission of proposals and the date of the sitting - when the draft law in the second, final, final, reading will be discussed by the Saeima. Please, Mrs Golubeva.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U43	On behalf of the Commission: the deadline for proposals is 1 April and the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 15 April.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U44	Okay. We got Arville Asheraden in front of the next Saeima sitting... 8 April, but... That is to say, the time limit for proposals is the same - April. No other person has expressed to the Bureau his wish to set any other time limit. We must vote first of all on the next deadline, which is the parliamentary sitting set by the committee presented by Mrs Golubeva... review deadline - 15 April. Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 47, for - 1. Consequently, the deadline for the second reading of the draft law is 1 April this year, and the session of the Saeima at second reading is 8 April this year. The next item is the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, Member Artus Kaimiņš. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U45	Hello, honourable Head of the sitting! We examine the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media” (No. 900/Lp13) at second reading. Four proposals have been received. 1. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal. This proposal maintains the current wording that broadcasting authorisations are issued for a period of 10 years. The proposal was not supported by the Commission. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you not to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U46	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Pucem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U47	Dear President, Dear Members, honourable Members! I call, however, for this issue to be considered and for my proposal to be supported in the vote in the Saeima. I will give you the reasoning and also the point why I have tabled such a proposal. When I listen to the debate on the draft law at first reading, I generally agree with the objectives of the draft law. It is clear that it is necessary to extend the possibilities for the media monitor to monitor the compliance of broadcasters with the requirements of the law. There is no doubt that this is both a State security consideration and a rule on the establishment of a legal state. And it is important that regulators are therefore entitled to monitor those objects in the field of their regulation. But at the same time in this law... of course, as part of a broader discussion within the Commission... and NEP... supported... Within the framework of the proposal, the model... shorten the period for which the broadcasting authorisation has been granted. The Commission had a wide-ranging discussion on this issue, and thank you also to the chairman of the Commission for the opportunity to take part in them and for a very broad opinion... the actual involvement of all members of the Commission in the debate on this proposal that I have tabled. The argument is, in fact, largely related to the possibility for the monitor to carry out more frequent monitoring activities. It has to be said that the law already allows the possibility for NEPLP to carry out supervision activities at any moment and with this law as well... other changes... we extend these rights. Time limit for broadcasting authorisation - this is not only a matter of regulation, but also a question of creating a market. It is no secret that electronic media, especially those that are broadcast in Latvian, are currently experiencing very difficult economic times - not only under the influence of the community (it is also one additional factor), but in general. Commercial broadcasters are falling significantly in the market, which is altered by changes in consumer behaviour, as well as the factor that is the most important, namely, in fact, the main factor that is changing it - it is changing the conditions for creating a advertising market: we are moving away from selling classic advertising on the Internet and selling big... actually the vast dominance of the Internet in this market. As a result, broadcasters live in very limited income; in fact, almost no broadcaster, commercial broadcaster, no longer earns any profit; this makes it difficult for them to invest in technology and maintain their technological competitiveness. In the field of broadcasting organisations, technological competitiveness is principled. Without investment in technology, broadcasters cannot exist and will cease early or late if they are unable to do so. With the reduction in the duration of the broadcasting authorisation, we are actually sending a signal to the banks, the funding institutions, that the broadcasters are reducing the period to which they will be able to borrow. They are seen by the state as less stable and will also be viewed as such by the financial institutions. Yes, I know that here in the neighbourhood the term is five years, but in the neighbourhood it is already 20 years, while in Latvia it is a long-term... have been 10 years, and our financial institutions have created conditions for market financing around this 10-year period. When we decide to reduce the broadcasting deadline for six years, we are actually limiting the possibilities for broadcasters to borrow money: to borrow money to invest in technology, and the alternatives from which they can take money for investment do not exist, because profit broadcasters do not have in recent years, as I said. I'm calling... I know that there was an attempt in the Commission to find a compromise and perhaps to agree for eight years; with one vote, with the vote of the President, it was actually different that this compromise text was not formulated. I would call for this to come back, and I believe that in the third vote this will happen... voting today, supporting my offer, giving a signal... The Commission must therefore also send a signal of the need to produce a version that also takes into account the need for an objective market for broadcasters. The Association of Latvian Radio Organizations has also indicated this for all members of the Saeima, it has sent a letter to all of them inviting them to support this proposal. I also call on you today to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U48	Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U49	Yes, colleagues, we were working on this draft law in the Commission... Hey, more than two months was! And the remaining three proposals (together there are four in this bill) are compromise proposals. And indeed my voice has been divided in this case as to whether or not Mr Pouce's proposal has support. But this bill must go ahead. And, I'm saying, we're already like beating now. This is the second reading. It is true that a compromise with the number 8 was also sought here... Whereas eight years, maybe seven years... At first reading, we agreed on six years, and those six years... In the opinion of the majority of committee members, it also remained unchanged... I also thought about it: yes, let it be six years. The industry was dissatisfied with this because 10 years - it is, in their opinion, desirable and good, which should be... There are these arguments - also from Mr Pouce - about banks, about getting money, earning money and the media situation as such at present; about what is happening at all, because in fact, rarely any medium has applied for the kovid. I think this is about commercial media, commercial radio, but we have also made a huge revolution and evolution in the media field in Latvia. The public media has abandoned the advertising space as such. Colleagues, once again, this is the second reading. This is the contentious proposal, where it was really the narrow, narrow line on which we are really strangled. I call on you not to support Mr Pouce's proposal. The debate will be either alive or alive, and within the Commission we continue... For the third reading, we can still try to convince each other, who is even more right, with the involvement of industry, of course, even though the work of the panel has been dragged... not because of Members' fault, but precisely because this round table that made... was forced to do in principle to the supervisor and the... Thus, both for the media and for industry, the dialogue did not really work. This non-dialogue process also remained... he let go... he drew all this in such a pretty long time. We were waiting for the whole time: then talk for a week more, then talk for a week more. That's the result - then the commission... He did it himself... I think this is even more than a satisfactory result... with other proposals on this compromise, which is the case. So it's about six years. Mr. Poece has been offering for 10 years. But as you mentioned earlier, Estonia is five years old. Here we can compare and we also need to compare: see, we are now six years old. We can still at third reading... Once again I say that the gate opens, we have not laid anything in the stone, but now, please, don't break the slices and go ahead, and we adopt this draft law at second reading! We still have three other proposals to look... That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U50	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U51	Dear President, Dear colleagues, If we are talking about a particular proposal, I would also call for a vote in favour of this proposal, because we need to understand who is doing radio business in Latvia. They are mostly our own entrepreneurs - local entrepreneurs who have made massive investments in technology, equipment that pays wages to their people. It should be borne in mind that the advertising market is currently falling; it should be borne in mind that many of these entrepreneurs have a connection with banks... As Mr. Pouce said. I do not really believe that reducing the time limit for broadcasting authorisation at this time is a work of mind. I would call for strong support for local entrepreneurs because... We understand that in this sector - the music sector, the news sector - we have many different digital... Internet platforms as well as internet streaming channels, for which we often pay subscription fees to listen to them, but all this money goes out of our economy. Digital tax has still not been introduced in Latvia. The market for local radio advertising falls significantly, not only because the economy as a whole is falling, but also because technology is changing and the world has this radio... in fact also music and news reception channels... new and new arrivals. I really believe that this is wrong: at this point in time, change the deadline for issuing permits from the current 10 years to six years. I call for this proposal to be supported. At the same time, I call for support to be given to all these amendments in general in the Law on Electronic Media, including the draft law in its entirety to be voted in favour. Just like this one, Mr. Pouce's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U52	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U53	Hello, colleagues! I will call on you to vote in favour of this proposal by Juris Pouce. I am grateful to Mr Puce for having tabled this proposal, and I very much hope that the majority of the Saeima will support it. I have pointed out in the previous debate the high risk of corruption that still exists in this area, as competition will increase as the public media leave the field of advertising. At the same time... what the Saeima wants to do... I do not understand the word ‘compromise’ when it comes to the value of a company and the fact that any NAP decision can have a direct impact on both the profits and the value of the company in the broadcasting sector and on the market. That is to say, the more often the NEEAPs will be able to influence the market for commercial radio stations through their decisions, the less the risk of corruption to which I refer. I call on all Members (mainly those political forces who used the fight against corruption as the main shorts in their pre-election rhetoric): here, now, you have the opportunity to show that you are against the risks of corruption, especially in a sensitive area such as the broadcaster, the network of radio stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U54	I closed the debate. Mr. Neighbour, on behalf of the Commission, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U55	Colleagues, I repeat: on behalf of the Commission, I call on us not to support this proposal by Juris Pouce. And yes, submit your proposals to the third reading... other. Please do not support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U56	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - Member Juris Pouce's proposal! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U57	We will now have very interesting next sittings on this draft law. It is now cut into a stone. Now let's go. 2. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. This proposal explains that... Well, it wasn't, as I said, this... called the voice in the desert, so to say about the fact that then the industry will agree with the supervisor. Then the commission came to help, and we also offered our vision, and both lawyers... Both the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, the industry and the supervisor... Whereas he remained satisfied... including positions and members of the opposition. This proposal provides that no later than six months before the expiry of the broadcasting authorisation, the electronic media may submit to the National Council for Electronic Media an application for a new broadcasting authorisation without a competition. The national electronic media council shall, not later than five months before the expiry date of the broadcasting authorisation, take a reasoned decision to issue to the electronic media a broadcasting authorisation without a competition or to refuse to issue a broadcasting authorisation. That is the essence of this proposal, and it is supported unanimously by the Commission. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U58	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U59	Thank you. 3. - a proposal drawn up by the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs. Supported by the Commission unanimously. And it means that... In order to ensure this equal procedure for re-registration of all economic operators, the Commission drew up this proposal... It means... that the NAP for the issuing of a new broadcasting licence without a tender is submitted no later than two months before the expiry date of the broadcasting authorisation, but that the NAP takes a decision on the granting of a broadcasting licence without a tender or refusing to issue a broadcasting licence no later than one month before the expiry date or the expiry date of the broadcasting authorisation. The Commission was unanimously supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U60	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U61	Thank you. And the last one in this bill - 4. - there is a proposal made by the Commission. Provision shall be made for supplementing the draft law with the indication that the law enters into force on the day following its publication. The Commission was unanimously supported. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U62	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U63	Thank you, that would be all about this bill. On behalf of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, please support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U64	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on Electronic Media". Please vote mode! For - 90, for - no, for - 1. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U65	The deadline is 30 March this year. Let us look forward to all the interesting proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U66	There are no other proposals on time limits. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 30 March this year. Thank you. The next item is the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”, second reading. The draft law has been declared urgent. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U67	Dear President, Dear colleagues, 39 proposals have been submitted to the draft law. 1. - the proposal by Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem, which provides for no authorisation to the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate a number of issues relating to the epidemiological situation in the country, instead retaining these powers to the Saeima. The Commission did not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U68	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U69	Dear colleagues, It is almost certain that the emergency is planned to end, but... exactly the same situation as we had in June - we see that the government wants to continue with various restrictions, and of course also with different penalties for breaching these restrictions. This is also seen in this law, the Covid-19 law on the management of infection. Just as happened after the first state of emergency was lifted, when, perhaps, society remembers, these restrictions remained. These restrictions, which remained, were based on this law. It is also planned that this law will continue to function after the end of this emergency situation. What does that mean? This means that the government without the parliamentary reconfirmation - already without the parliamentary reconfirmation! - by strengthening only certain regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, these restrictions can continue to be produced after each other, and in such a situation - unlike the emergency situation - there is no specific obligation on the government to compensate for the losses incurred by the restrictions. We see that the Cabinet of Ministers has the task of assessing, seeing if they can really overcome these restrictions - the people to whom they will be imposed, but we see that the Cabinet has still not compensated for the losses that have been caused by the restrictions that the Cabinet had envisaged in terms of the education of interests in October, and we have been talking about this for several months now, but nothing is being done. We expect the same thing to happen now that this emergency is brought to an end - even when this emergency is over, the Cabinet will have the right to apply various restrictions. What we offer from our side - if these restrictions are necessary for anyone, then these restrictions can only be approved in the Saeima; only in such amendments to the law can we impose the restrictions that someone needs. We see that it is possible to pass the law within one day. The Saeima is as mobile as the Cabinet of Ministers. At the moment, the Saeima has no obstacle to meeting at any time and to decide on any restrictions, so we must not pretend that we cannot do so. When Members vote in favour of these restrictions, they will also be able to be responsible for the entry into force and functioning of these restrictions accordingly. What's happening right now... We have for more than a year given up our own powers, we have given this mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers - to be precise, not us, but you, because we voted 'no' all the time, we, the opposition - the real opposition. But you do not want to take responsibility for these restrictions, for the consequences of these restrictions! We therefore call on the Saeima to be responsible for its decisions and to take full responsibility for everything that will be decided on the future. If restrictions are necessary, they must be laid down in the law, not in the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers, which will be less visible, less understandable, and of course no responsibility will be placed on the Saeima Members for these restrictions at all. I call on my fellow Members to support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U70	I closed the debate. Mrs. Steel, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U71	The Commission did not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U72	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 1. - the motion tabled by Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem! Please vote mode! For - 27, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U73	2. - the proposal from the Members of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is identical to proposal 1 and was not supported, nor would it be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U74	Let us start a debate. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U75	Yeah, thank you. Actually, the discussion... the absence of real discussion, the absence of dialogue during the work of the committee - this is a very serious concern. The meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, attended by invited experts and industries, which are very much affected by the restrictions accepted by the Cabinet, shows that against the needs of society, against the opinion of society, against the specific sector... and specific type of operation... like interest education, beauty industry, trade... On the part of the government, and unfortunately also in the Saeima - on the leadership of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - the opinion of the representative of society is ignored. It is ignored in rather rude and, in my opinion, vulgar form, because, in fact, both Members and later on, the Cabinet of Ministers are elected by the citizens, elected by the same people who are now forced to submit and who are charged with complying with the restrictions that the government adopts and then the Saeima approves, accepts and entrusts to comply. It is certainly grossly unfair that the really restrictive measures, the gardening measures are adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers, but its responsibility then on the part of officials, because it is the officials... representation... an instrument providing for all these sanctions and mechanisms. It's also reducing for everyone... Parliament and the parliamentarians, despite differences of opinion, have a different way of expressing opinions and there is a debate accordingly. Unfortunately, during the work of the Commission, when dealing with such important issues that concern the whole of society, the discussion and exchange of views were not given the floor and opportunity. In my view, both from the point of view of society and from the point of view of the culture of the discussion, and from the point of view of the public responsibility... Members should act differently and behave differently. Of course, this proposal, given that it is repeated, cannot be put to the vote anymore, but I ask and want the public to know that the Members of the Saeima are different; that sanctions, penalties, restrictions are different; and that, unfortunately, Members of the opposition often have a different attitude... and not just... not heard... and allowed to argue on the position. That's why that attitude... It should not be surprising why the public does not want to comply with the restrictions proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers and accepted by the majority of the Saeima Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U76	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U77	Colleagues! I would also like to add that we are facing a very strange situation. We remember very well the indignations and texts of some Saeima politicians regarding decisions taken by governments and parliaments of other countries during the day of the community, we are talking specifically about Hungary, but we are seeing that the same Members (and I am talking about Mrs. Steel) are now absolutely calm - absolutely calm! - vote against this proposal to return democracy to the country... to the parliament... That is exactly what happened in Hungary, which Mrs. Steel was so warmly opposed. We also see that the European Commission strongly condemns such action regarding the democratic shortcomings of the community during the time, and one of the recommendations was: if restrictions are introduced, they must be time-limited. At the moment, honourable colleagues, you have voted in favour of these restrictions not being time-limited at all, because, as we can see, this law will exist as long as Mr Pavluta and Mr Kariņš and Mr Dumpis are afraid, or they think they are afraid of the virus. The whole of society will be subject to these fears, these restrictions, and no one will know how long these restrictions will work. This, in particular, is already a clear violation by the Saeima, voting against the proposal to return democracy to the Saeima, returning rights to the Saeima - representatives of society! - decide on restrictions and determine the functioning of the restrictions. That's why... Colleagues, I see, of course, that this proposal is not a voteable one, but that there is a two-way approach in your votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U78	I closed the debate. Mrs. Steel, would you like to add something else? Indeed, this proposal cannot be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U79	No, there is nothing to add to this proposal. 3. - the proposal by Members Stepanenko and Gobzem requesting the exclusion of Article 1 of the draft law. And that means not giving the Cabinet the right to impose restrictions on trade. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U80	Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U81	Colleagues! As we had promised yesterday, we put forward proposals to repeal virtually all three new articles of this draft law, which are intended to transpose the penal rules into this law, because the emergency regulation is over, so the sanctions also end. In the Commission's defence of our proposal, we were rather surprised by the speed at which this proposal and the whole of this draft law were dealt with, because, in substance, the very important issue - the continuation of these restrictions in the law - would be, in our view, to be dealt with with by all the social partners. We know that for technical reasons the Latvian Traders' Association could not express itself and the views of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia were shared, we saw - there was one proposal (in writing) that expressed a strong position about not continuing such a ban in law, at least in this law, but another representative (perhaps because of misunderstanding) expressed a rather strange view of this ban, on the pretext that there is a great hope for all shops to end up and that this is the price of freedom. In fact, this is the price of freedom that all shoppers pay so that they can get back to work. Of course, there is only hope that trade will be opened, but we see that until this norm is voted in law, it is likely that blackmail will continue and nothing will happen further. We can see this very clearly. We also understand that not everyone is free to take action, but... We believe that such a rule, which is supposed to close a trading venue for seven days, whatever it may be, even a small boditi, for someone to enter into one promise... Look... too much... not one, but two people... One-and-a-half man will have entered... This is something we would never like to support, because now, of course, all the shops have opened if this is allowed, and now there will be a harvest time, really there will be a harvest time. What we heard from Mr. Miezaiņš yesterday - that only those abusers will be punished - is absolutely not a serious argument, because we know that if the law... if the gardening norm is in law, then the gardening norm has no eyes, no ears, no sense - it is, and it works. And when it is to be applied, it is applied. In this case, it's not about some kind of... about some sentiments or everything else. We see that by voting on such a provision, we are responsible for the further damage... the further devastating consequences. If you, my fellow Members, including Mr Možville, who was very much at the Saeima last sitting, were very much defending traders and measuring square meters there... and the tractors were sold... He also voted in favour of this provision in the sitting. So everybody... All those who listen to us right now, honorary society... all the big shoppers have turned out to be on paper. I call on my honourable colleagues to support our proposal and to vote outside this rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U82	The name of the Member, John Adamson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U83	Dear colleagues, I would like to be clear. There is a misunderstanding about the progress of the legislative process. But there were no different views among the LDDK, because... Mrs Kiukucane talked about what happened in January, February, and it was only about the fact that these penal norms could be the order of the Cabinet of Ministers. Mrs Angelsone talked about the fact that these rules cannot be transposed to this draft law that we are currently examining. So they both had the same opinion. And I believe that the transposition of these rules into this law is absolutely inadequate and out of place, just like all its punishment policies. You know, you don't pass the criticism that we haven't punished anyone so far... What is it about introducing such rules if they are not suitable for anyone or if you do not intend to apply them? All the more so if... It's not quite enough if the cop closes a trading place. Okay, in Riga - it's different, but how will the countryside be? Are we indirectly... To be correct, you... you are not directing all of this towards an already national kind of racketeering, which can also be seen as a possible option for further development? I call for this proposal to be supported... and finally think with your head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U84	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U85	Thank you. Colleagues! I also believe that we very much like the punishment and the imposition of sanctions. In general, the government, Kariņš, as the first of its works, as defined, had applied for “capital repairs” in the financial sector and started with loud processes. Now, because of the Covid-19 pandemic, it's all turned into a "capital repair" that has been going on for several months... Unfortunately, they do not blame the achievement of certain reduced levels of disease, which should seem to be taking place, taking into account all the restrictive measures and all the sanctions introduced and imposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. That disease stays in the range of some kind of risk... And the red light of the traffic lights - that's what's going on. It makes us think of an unthinking and unbalanced... the implementation and operation of instruments proposed by experts and public administrations, and by ministers. It is also a source of dissatisfaction and tension on the part of society, and its temperature of social dissatisfaction is still... continue to increase if restrictive measures are maintained. There is no communication with the public in a clear and understandable way. At an early stage, neither adequate instruments were proposed to deter possible violations of the strict regime and to reduce the risk of disease. We can see now... and, if we also see documents prepared and examined by the government itself at its meetings, we can see that after the long action of restrictive measures... after a certain period of time, i.e. six months, the population is already experiencing fatigue and opposition to these measures. And that's just logical. If society does not see the result of the measures introduced, if socialisation is not facilitated, communication, if normal learning is not provided, especially for primary school pupils, then it is likely that this will end with social unrest in society. In my opinion, it is time to balance sanctions, it is time to start trusting society! The time has come to allow real people to shop, not lobbying large companies that provide trade, and there is also a need for preventive action - to warn, speak and inform. Only in this way can we guarantee public loyalty to decisions taken by the government and public trust to both the government and the Saeima, and the public's desire to respect those restrictive measures and the rules imposed or implemented by the government, the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why I am asking for support for our proposal and respect for our people, our citizens, and for giving up gardening instruments in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U86	I closed the debate. Mrs. Steel, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U87	The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U88	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the motion tabled by Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem! Please vote mode! For - 29, for - 53, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U89	4. - the proposal from the Members of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is identical to proposal 3, it was not supported by the Commission and it is also not put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U90	Yes, the proposal is identical, not put to the vote, but the debate under the parliamentary roll of order is permissible. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U91	Thank you. Colleagues! I just want to inform the other fellow Members who... not everyone is familiar with the documents to be examined at the Cabinet of Ministers and probably does not know... are not so informed of the opinions of the experts and their consequences... on the evaluation they provide to the Cabinet of Ministers. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, a presentation was presented by the group of experts on proposals to review the Covid-19 restrictive measures, and from their aspects, let us say, they - experts - indicated the sustainability of the measures from the point of view of society. Restrictions that will not work if they are continued for another three months: no more than two persons can gather indoors and outdoors (we are already sitting if you remember, more than three months - due to limited measures!) , children’s education classes at a distance; availability of live pre-school education only for families where parents cannot work at a distance; only one person from the family attends the shopping place; at funerals and baptisms, not more than 10 people gather in urgent cases. Restrictions that will not work if they are continued for another six months: training remotely; limited scheduled services in hospitals; limited range of shops that provide for sales on the spot; limited range of goods for sale on the spot; catering services only for reception; non-availability of sports clubs and welfare-related services; ten-day self-insulation after arrival in Latvia; entry into Latvia only in urgent cases; restrictions on access to culture and sports events; prohibition of private and public events. And with difficulty, restrictions can be implemented: studies remotely and work remotely. Colleagues, think! The time has come to start thinking logically and clearly and not to continue restrictive public measures that are not to blame for the results! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U92	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U93	Dear colleagues, I would like you to know, too, because, given that everything was going on in the Commission very quickly, hard and perhaps not everyone had the opportunity to get acquainted with these documents submitted by the social partners... The Latvian Traders Association specifically mentioned that these amendments, which we are talking about and which you respectively... You didn't support the imposition of these penalties... that these penalties must be laid down by law... According to the Latvian Traders Association, it is not possible to support it, it was not possible to support it, as currently the legislation has established a procedure for stopping the operation of an object, it provides a warning to the economic operator, but the economic activity is suspended if the economic operator has not avoided the specified violations. This is the competence of the State Revenue Service. In the explanatory memorandum to the bill, we are talking about this. The assessment of the infringement of the epidemiological safety requirements has been justified by the competence of the Health Inspection. We believe that the police do not have the knowledge to properly assess the epidemiological safety situation at the site. Another argument. The law is very strict... there are very strict penalties for this type of infringement. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that such infringements are separate and there is no reason why the current control system is insufficient and it is not possible to prevent repeated infringements. We know that the Commission has also reported that no one has been punished so far. So this is not a system that should be combated at the moment. The current surveillance regime fully demonstrates that the result of the control is not an assessment of epidemiological safety but rather a bureaucratic procedure for subjective verification of the existence, completion, completeness and location of documents at the site. So, colleagues, what you have done at the moment... we hope that this will need to be corrected in the near future, because probably you have not really understood what you... You have voted. You really do want to continue terrorising traders, just hoping that they... by selling them freedom against these restrictions. That, I think, is not absolutely proportionate. This is not worth public administration employees at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U94	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U95	The President of the sitting. Colleagues! I would also call for support for these proposals. I have also submitted myself... they'll be closer to the end... For one... this particular... This section on punishment. But in general... I also see the attached documents... We have a letter from the Employers' Confederation of Latvia in which they object to these amendments, which lay down administrative responsibility for trade... businessmen. Also Latvian Traders Association... neither do they support this bill as such, nor do they support these norms... object. I think that there is quite a reason for their indignation, which they set out and express in this letter. I therefore call on my colleagues to listen to it. I think... The summer will come: what will we do in the markets? What will happen in the marketplace? Are they... How all of this will be followed up there, and how the order will be... How will these rules be implemented in general? How will this control also take place in the simple... in these small shops? By the transfer... I am talking about this at first reading, but these issues have not yet been resolved. Is it really for those businessmen who already have their operations at the end of the hair, especially small businessmen, who also... According to the Association of Latvian Traders, these support does not reach them until... Will they really have these additional concerns about all this? Do they really also need to worry about all this? If there's not just one person, but the other person or the third person comes in and then the policeman comes in and they're all still being punished... and the penalty may be that it is worth a hard store at all, perhaps it will no longer be able to endure. Colleagues! In my opinion, this approach is exaggerated. Well, this is so... That's... The stick principle that we are trying to implement is not the right approach. It would be better, however, to agree with the businessmen that they control rather than make them... In principle, we're imposing on them... to be honest, we are imposing an additional obligation on them... additional obligations, responsibilities resulting from specific costs and which these operators will have to bear. That is not really right at this time, in my opinion. I call on you to support these proposals put forward by my fellow Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U96	I closed the debate. The proposal is not put to the vote, but does Mrs Steel wish to add something on behalf of the Commission? If not, move to proposal 5.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U97	There is nothing to add to the proposal 4. 5. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. It clarifies the wording relating to sporting events and extends the period of validity of the various documents and allows for the prohibition of imports of species susceptible to Covid-19 and the production of such animals. This proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U99	6. - the proposal of Members Stepanenko and Gobzem, which would once again like not to grant the Cabinet a mandate to define issues, but to reserve the right to vote for the Saeima. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U100	The vote has been requested. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 6. - the motion tabled by Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem! Please vote mode! On - 29, against - 52, refraining from - 2. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U101	7. - the motion of Members Scratch and Svelova. This is identical to proposal 6. It was not supported and not put to the vote by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U102	Consequently, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. We are going on with proposal 8.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U103	8 / 8 - a proposal from Members Stepanenko and Gobzem. The Commission was not supported. This is due to proposals that have been rejected in the past - the granting of rights to the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U104	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U105	9. - the proposal by Members of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which is identical to proposal No 8. Not supported, not put to the vote either.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U106	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U107	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - Igora Pimenova's proposal, which aims to maintain strict monitoring of the Saeima over the rules that will be issued under this law, including... by imposing an obligation on the Cabinet of Ministers to report to the Saeima on the following regulations within 24 hours. The Commission was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U108	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Igor Pimenov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U109	Hello, dear colleagues! My proposal is to maintain parliamentary control over the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers to limit the spread of infection after the removal of the emergency situation. What is the order now? The legal framework for restrictions applicable to Covid-19 infection is based on two laws, namely the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Status” and the law on Management of Covid-19 infection. On the basis of the law “On Emergency and Exceptional Status”, the Cabinet of Ministers adopted an order “On Promulgation of Emergency”. On the other hand, the rules of the Cabinet of Ministers are based to a large extent on the Covid-19 law on the spread of infection... epidemiological safety measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection... which establish epidemiological safety measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection. So there is an order of the Cabinet of Ministers, and there are regulations of the Cabinet. If the Cabinet of Ministers amends these documents, according to the law, its obligation to notify the Saeima of amendments. In order to comply with the third paragraph of Article 9 of the Law “On Emergency and Exceptional Situation”, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to notify the Parliament’s Presidium of the decision on amendments to the order previously adopted... in an emergency order where additional - territorial or legal - restrictions are required. The Saeima Presidium shall immediately enter the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers into the agenda of the Saeima sitting in accordance with Article 10 of the Law. If, having considered the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Saeima rejects it, it shall expire and the measures introduced under it shall be repealed immediately. The Cabinet of Ministers shall inform the Saeima, and the committee established by the Saeima may propose to the Cabinet of Ministers to review the restrictions provided for, of the amendments to the regulations affecting the rights and legal interests of persons. Once the emergency has been lifted, the government’s emergency orders are no longer in force, but restrictions remain on the rules laying down epidemiological safety measures to limit the spread of the infection. The possible new restrictions will no longer be transferred for consideration in the sitting of the Saeima, but according to the current norm of the law will remain only under the control of the Saeima Commission. Perhaps the Saeima Commission can address public safety risks in relation to the spread of Covid-19 infection, as delegated to it by the law at present, but the Saeima Commission has very weak resources to assess other risks. The existing regulation will not allow the Saeima to exercise control in order to prevent possible violations of human rights, restricting the rights and legitimate interests of individuals in the context of the spread of Covid–19 infection, when the emergency situation will be lifted. For the reasons I have described, I propose that I transfer to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection the competence of the Saeima, the control of the executive already granted to the law on the emergency and exceptional situation. The Saeima Commission has refused to strengthen the Saeima control over the Cabinet of Ministers, therefore it is acting against the legitimate task assigned to the legislator. However, as long as we are in the position of the people, such control must be in the hands of Parliament. I call for support for the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U110	I closed the debate. Mrs. Steel, would you like to add something on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U111	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U112	Please call me! Let us vote in favour of 10. - Member Igora Pimenova's proposal! Please vote mode! For - 23, for - 55, for - 7. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U113	11. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Allow to continue the existing arrangements by providing public support to people when accommodation in tourist accommodation is necessary for isolation or self-insulation purposes. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U115	12. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The responsibility of the employer to ensure measures limiting the spread of infection shall be specified if workers are to work in the presence due to the specific nature of the work. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U116	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U117	13. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The need to comply with epidemiological requirements shall be determined if there is a need for on-site hearing of court cases. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U119	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The epidemiological safeguard measures relating to the enforcement of the sentence shall be established. Convoying, acting in the event of quarantine in prison and the order to be followed when a prisoner is co-positive or a contact person at the time of release. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U120	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U121	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Defines the procedure of return of sentenced persons abroad to execution of the sentence in Latvia. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U123	16. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The fact that court services are provided at a distance, but exceptions can be determined by the President of the court, and then all epidemiological security requirements must be met. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U124	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U125	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Provision shall be made for the right to defer activities of bailiffs and notaries where there is an increased risk of infection where this does not constitute a serious violation of the rights. In the Commission, the proposal is supported by editorial clarification.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U127	18. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. The authorised Council of Sworn Judicial Officers of Latvia and the Council of Sworn Notaries of Latvia to impose restrictions on the admission of visitors. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U129	19. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Provision shall be made that auctions of the right to dispose of and lease property of a public person may be organised in an open format. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U130	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U131	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Ensure that we return to normal when applying the Public Procurement Law... when the National Defence Logistics and Procurement Centre performs centralised procurement of personal protective equipment, medical devices or laboratory... testing services. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U133	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Ensure that the various European regulations do not apply to different types of documents in the transport and transport sectors. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U135	22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Off article 30 of the law. It has been submitted because there is no longer any need for special arrangements for the provision of health services. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U136	Members have wanted to start a debate on this proposal, but it is time for a break. So we will be able to start the debate after a break. Only registration of the presence of Members. It's been a success. So it's a break until 5.30 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U137	Good evening, dear colleagues! We keep sitting after the break. We remained on the bill “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of infectious spread”. We stayed with the debate on proposal 22. The name of the Member, John Adamson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U138	Dear colleagues, The examination of this bill clearly proves the chaos that prevails in the government and ruling coalition and that logic does not work. What does it mean to exclude Article 30 of this law? This article of the Act consists of two parts. Part two, as Mrs. Steel rightly said... it shall cease to exist on 31 March. There would be no problem, but what is being offered at the same time, Mr Bordan, is also saying about what the first part is about? Officials of the institutions of the Ministry of the Interior system and of the Administration of Prisons with special service degrees who are entitled to receive medical rehabilitation course paid by the Health and Sports Centre of the Ministry of the Interior within one year of an accident at work, trauma or surgery and who terminate this course during an emergency or within one month after receiving medical rehabilitation... removal of restrictions... have the right to receive a medical rehabilitation course paid by the Health and Sports Centre of the Ministry of the Interior within three months of the removal of these restrictions. And at the same time... This paragraph, the first paragraph of Article 30, is also hereby deleted. Now... This is the concern that you say orally all the time... in words, that you care about the cops and everyone else?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So don't lie! I offer you... during the commission... split this paragraph and the vote into two parts, but unfortunately, it hastened and let go of the chaos that is happening. I therefore call on the whole to vote against this proposal by Mr Bordan so that at least the first part remains. The second part won't work either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U139	I closed the debate. Please, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so? Mrs. Steel, do you have any comment?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U140	The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U141	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 22. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, John Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 45, for - 18, for - 7. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U142	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. Provision shall be made for the various categories of workers to work overtime in excess of the statutory working time. It also provides for allowances for officials of the Ministry of the Interior for work under conditions of increased risk and load. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U143	Please call me! We will vote in favour 23. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, John Bordan! Please, let's vote! For - 49, for - 1, for - 22. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U144	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Defaults for automatic extension... documents required under the Law on Religious Organisations. In the Commission, proposal 24 was supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U145	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U146	25. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. A mandate is foreseen for the Ministry of Defence to involve the Earthguard veterans in the fight against the effects of Covid-19. It also provides for the right for postal operators not to obtain the signatures of the addressees of the customer. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U147	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U148	26. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Bordan. Provision is made for the possibility to vaccinate groups of persons residing in Latvia with temporary residence permit or... under European Union rules, they have the right to receive health services to the same extent as Latvian citizens. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U149	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U150	27. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko and Gobzem. It is envisaged to exclude from the law a chapter providing for penalties for infringements. The proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U151	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U152	28. - the proposal from the Members of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Identical 28. It was not supported by the Commission, nor was it put to the vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U153	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U154	Colleagues! There has been my seed, and I do not know why I could not apply for a debate. Probably didn't work the system. I am very sorry that there is no vote, but nothing, we will present such a proposal once again in this law. I will explain the substance of the proposal. We see that this law contains the relevant section "Administrative responsibility for non-compliance with the legal limits" and administrative responsibility for violations of assembly restrictions, non-cargo offences. We can see that there is very much information about how people are punished. Sometimes penalties are lifted, because it is probably very difficult to go along with their application, and that is very good, because these penalties, in my opinion, are not really compatible with some kind of humanity in this case. What I would like to say is that we see that this system does not work at all, because there are penalties imposed on ordinary people for restrictions on assembly, for example, there is a group of singers who gather for it and receive it accordingly, and then there is another category of people - the Golden Microphone, who gather, enjoy the evening (it is very good that they do it, we are happy to do it), but they don't get anything accordingly... no punishment, for, behold, they have decided by some of their own rules that they can do so. Some tests have been passed there and so forth. Wherever the law does not provide for this rule, I have not found that we would have found that if a person had received a negative test, then he can do everything. That would, of course, be very good, but it only works for specific people. Likewise, I am sorry for the members of the Saeima Presidium, who are very free to take part in all proceedings indoors, despite the fact that we have a clear and clear statement that the indoors of the sittings are banned completely, without any conditions - whether you are a high official or you have a test or you have no test. Just like that. We see that these rules are written only for those people who can be punished, for ordinary people who go, walk on the street, but for those who are especially chosen and self-conceived, we do not punish them. It is therefore absolutely unnecessary to have that chapter in substance for this law. We will put forward the following proposal once again. It is a pity that today, for technical reasons, we have failed to apply for a debate and to ask for a vote, but we will correct this error. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U155	I closed the debate. It is therefore impossible to vote on this proposal. Madam steel, proposal 29. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U156	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editable. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U157	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U158	30. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko and Gobzem. Article 2 of the draft law is to be excluded. This means excluding the possibility of punishing trading venues for infringements. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U159	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U160	Colleagues! This could probably be the main proposal in this bill. We are talking specifically about penalties for economic operators... traders. As you have seen before and as you have heard, so all organisations were against these proposals, they were against this bill as such. This penalty mechanism is totally unacceptable and may not remain in this law for an indefinite period of time. If the emergency regulation introduced this penalty (of course we also voted against some of the opposition), but now it will be... it will be a rule of law, and Members of the Saeima will also have to take responsibility for the fact that this norm of punishment is now being implemented and this mechanism is already specifically in the law. This small store, which will be closed first because of your vote, because of the introduction of your penal rule, will be very ‘give thanks’ to all Members who will vote in favour of maintaining this provision in the law, so ‘no’ to this proposal. We call for this garden rule to be taken out. We responded to the call of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia, we responded to the invitation of the Traders' Association of Latvia. We understand small entrepreneurs, because they will already be those who will suffer, they will be those, not those big monsters who are good now, small shops waiting for opening will suffer, and they will be very difficult. I call for this proposal to be supported, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U161	Name to Member Raimond Bergman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U162	Hello, honourable leader of the Saeima sitting! Colleagues! We have heard so much about values at the moment. We also hear very often the words'security', 'democracy', 'good governance' during the pre-elections. That is the main thing on which we have carried out many reforms, and here we are faced today with a very ‘fine’ implementation of good governance and fair principles. Believe me, it seems really very strange to be taking part in these meetings of our committee two days and hearing the extreme opposite opinions and in reality... the urgency. We did not know that the emergency was announced until 6 April? Did we expect anything similar to that of Easter that any miracles would happen? No, it won't. It must prepare in time, and then it must not demand either urgency or the way in which we are working. It's very difficult for me to accept... in this way, to work that we do not allow to speak, to vote. How, then, will we continue to be faithful? I understand that, immediately, the vote will also show that everything is fine with democracy and the principles of good governance in our country, but nevertheless - cannot really be prepared in time to be able to listen, because at one sitting of the committee we hear one, then at the Saeima sitting we hear another from the ministries. After all, we want to understand what the decision was. If we return to this good governance and to the principle of good faith, then we heard what the parliamentary secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs said yesterday at the Saeima that in January there had been a meeting that had sat at the table and discussed opportunities. And then, on the part of the government, I understand that has been this promise. Yes, traders have agreed that such rules are necessary, but on condition that we allow them to work as well. But now we again, just as in the sitting that just, on a break, happened, we do, trust, but no one knows if that promise will be kept. We're going to do everything now, but, "Oh, well, somehow we're... “Oh, well, it didn’t happen this time!” Just like we have voted for medical salaries. What effect does this all have on Parliament, on our work? Can we really not talk about this in good time? We all knew that a decision would have to be made, as we would do after 6 April - let's cancel, let's not cancel... Well, we've got the paperwork done in good time! Like... we see this as we have prepared with vaccination. That issue has also been reviewed and has often been addressed by the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption. And then last summer, when everything is ready... We knew very well that vaccines are something that can help us at this point. Nothing ready! We're going back, we're going through the head, we're going through the neck. Well, gentlemen, is it fair if those people, everyone who is entrepreneurs, want to, sit with you at the table, discuss, agree to rather complicated, restrictive, binding rules for them, and in the end you are, as - no, no, we do not want it at the moment, then there will be no. It must not, I think, take action, and it is wrong, regardless of what the vote will be. All this affects the prestige of our work as Parliament. We wonder ourselves that our prestige is so low, that the prestige of our government is so low, people do not want to get involved in politics, but these are our own decisions. Can't we really... Is that so? I don't, for example, at the moment... can support this. Like you've very often used... Indeed, coalition, you put good things together with quite complicated things. I think that shouldn't be the case. I also have a surprise... Perhaps some ministries have, however, appreciated that we could have received 38 proposals within half an hour. Well, think about it! This is an urgency, as we have prepared! Thank you very much to the Ministry of Justice, which also helps us and explains many issues that are not even of them... Well, maybe we'll call... in time for us to discuss enough quality so that those decisions can also be such that we can change the attitude of society towards our own work. Unfortunately, I will not be able to support this draft law in this case... but in this case, I call for the vote in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U163	The name of the Member, John Adamson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U164	Dear colleagues, The case is that this Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection will operate regardless of whether there is an emergency or not. And it will work for years, two and three. The sanctions you put in will also work... continue to work. What do they do? I always go out of the worst options in my life, and if they don't happen, then I'm optimistic: I see how well they planned to fail. What is the result of this introduction of sanctions? I am explained here, and it was also explained in the committee meeting: “You know that until now no sanctions have been imposed, no store is closed.” But this Solomon sword hangs over all traders, over all shop owners, and it gives an elementary opportunity to blackmail, to recite these owners. I understand that the elections are coming, that is the election year, that next year is the elections, that obviously the parties need money, but must this be done in this way? At least it seems to me that these rules are necessary to force entrepreneurs to pay for certain political parties, because there is no different logic here. There is no logic of having whole sections, shelves, counters where you can't buy anything, even though we've been talking a long time ago, all agree that there is no need to restrict goods, but there is a need to limit people's presence. Colleagues, this penal policy cannot be supported in the way it is implemented by this law. I do not take these norms differently as a state racket, as an attempt to extort money from businessmen and owners to certain political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U165	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U166	Dear Chair of the sitting, dear colleagues. If we look at the specific proposal and the whole of the draft law, then the specific proposal is not to punish entrepreneurs, to exclude this particular article because, also taking into account what has been previously... and Mr. Bergmanis also said that government cooperation partners (the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Latvian Employers' Confederation - they are the largest employers in the country, in general the biggest) come with their proposals, are ready to put a huge burden on themselves to comply with this safe shopping... the concept of trade, but as a result none of it is put into practice, and we retain our penalties. Not only employers, not only traders, but also consumers, people in many places are forced to look for black points or black holes in the economy, or even to stimulate and promote them in order to buy the necessary goods, bypass the law. Many small, medium-sized entrepreneurs are also forced to do so so so that they can feed their family so that they can pay for the public service because they do not get the amount of advance in the middle of the month and pay at the beginning of the month (as it comes to the Saeima Members regardless of what the Cabinet of Ministers orders on trade or on economic restraint are adopted), while they are subject to a huge penalty. Both they and, in fact, these consumers. And what are we... Are we taking it? We're not doing anything to encourage. We saw a few hours back on euthanasia... We had a wide-ranging debate - the opposition, the position. Where are we now discussing how we could really open up trade objectively and qualitatively in a secure way? At the same time, we want to punish, punish, punish and exterminate all once again. Many cannot receive this much-needed support for entrepreneurs, which was promised in spring. You can't! Time limits are constantly being changed when they will be able to resume normal work and so on. Colleagues! Well, let's also think about those sectors, the very important sectors that employ Latvian society, the people of Latvia who pay taxes in the state budget, for which we all, Members of Parliament, including, receive salaries and maintain the state administration apparatus. Let's not sort out what one can do, what one can't. I do not want to perhaps agree with what the previous speaker, Mr Adamson, said about this possible corruption, but I do not have any direct evidence of it, but it looks exactly as Mr Adamson said. Colleagues! Indeed, we are equal to all members of Latvian society, against traders, against entrepreneurs, and we respect them, and then we will also be able to expect this respectful treatment of them that they pay fair taxes on their employees, corporate income tax, discharge the budget that they are socially responsible entrepreneurs. Colleagues! We remember one thing - attitude creates attitude. If we do... Or, to be more precise, is the coalition now addressing Latvian entrepreneurs, so what attitude will we expect of them in the future towards the country? Think about it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U167	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U168	Dear colleagues, For trade, we have fought for small shops since the beginning, when these nightmare bans appeared. We have drawn up a number of draft decisions, put them on the vote, also called on the coalition to support, and all this time there was such a reserved attitude from the coalition, and I now see why. In parallel, I would also like to say that you still, dear colleagues from the coalition, have no direct, concrete evidence that the morbidity rate is rising because trade is opening up. On the contrary, and that is what I proved to you in the last sitting, showing you concrete tables, reading the specific figures that rose up when you prohibited pre-winter trade. It was, and you yourself have recognised it. But why do you try to guide this proposal now is absolutely clear, because if you had opened small shops a month ago, you would not be able to market this ban now. You can't! You are now trying to really agree that you will only open shops if the social partners or someone else agrees to this - this gardening norm - but only under such conditions. And we now understand why you were silent about why you avoided why you voted 'no' - you have simply planned all this event in cynically. There is another specific reason going on at the moment: you have now put traders on the road, and you are now telling them that if you agree to punish yourself, then we may think about how to open you up. We see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U169	I closed the debate. Mrs. Steel, on behalf of the Commission, what will you say?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U170	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U171	Please call me! We will vote for 30. - a proposal from Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem! Please, let's vote! For - 29, for - 53, for - 3. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U172	31. - the proposal from the Members of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Identical 30. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U173	The proposal is not put to the vote, but a debate is possible. The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U174	Thank you, colleagues. Governments... Due to the Covid-19 restrictions proposed and implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers, it was the small and medium-sized business that suffered the most. Even when the government introduced even stricter conditions and allowed trade only in large stores, small and medium-sized business, which is geared to consumption... the sale of consumer goods, which suffered even more from these restrictions. At present, what is continuing to do and what is in fact disproportionately relevant to the small and medium-sized business in particular is that, in the initial phase, through the introduction of restrictions, the range of support instruments offered to the small segment was not sufficiently adequate and in several cases did not reach the target audience that needed state aid and state aid. At the moment, it really seems that, with strong restrictions over the longer term, there is a conceptual agreement from the small and medium-sized trade sector to support and agree on penal mechanisms and their implementation, including the suspension of operations, in return for even the possibility of starting operations... start small business so necessary... some kind of business activity. It seems to me that the transfer of gardening instruments from one law to another is now not the right instrument for ensuring compliance with restrictive measures. I think it would be better if we had a clear and understandable strategy. It would be better if the government and the Ministry of Health ensured the necessary numbers of vaccines and vaccination processes. So the society would return to normal conditions... secure services could be provided at the place of life and at the point of sale. And to the fact that the government is very responsive and is not proactive, not only is the fact that we still lack vaccines, even though there are people who would like to be vaccinated, but also the fact that while Estonia will introduce a green vaccination passport from 1 April and Lithuania will also develop and, most likely, introduce a green vaccination passport in May or June, the relevant services in Latvia are still continuing discussions and pointing to each other: the Ministry of Health - to the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of the Interior - to the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development. But as a result, the fact is that in Latvia only ministries are looking at and talking to each other, while in Estonia from April there will be a green vaccination passport. Unfortunately, all this also shows their true attitude in public administration and in ministries' attitude to active involvement and proactive response to problems. Well, that's not the right tool for penalties in this situation to ensure the safety of the health sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U175	I closed the debate. The proposal is therefore not supported and not put to the vote either. Proposal No 32 Mrs. Steel, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U176	32. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative correction. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U177	Members are in favour. The vote has been requested. Request for a vote in good time. Please call me! Please vote in favour of 32. - The Legal Bureau's proposal! Please, let's vote! No, 74, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U178	33. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko and Gobzem. Article 3 of the draft law is to be excluded. Article 3 is what allows penalties to be imposed for breaches of epidemiological safety in trading venues. This proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U179	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U180	Colleagues, this, as we have already promised, paragraph 3, last, in this bill, which consisted in a whole of three articles, we call for it to be excluded. Article 3 therefore supplements Article 50 of the Law, the penalty clause, provided that all these penalties apply also to infringements of the requirements of trade and other economic services. Apart from closing a trading venue, there are other joys for traders - legal entities from 28 to 1000 fine units, natural persons from two to 400 fine units. Then we can see that these “friends”... "friendly" conditions have been added to traders not only by closing a trading venue, which, as the Commission explained to us, is not an administrative penalty, but only a means, so there is no criminality, but the business has been disrupted, then there is a specific penalty that can be imposed on traders for various offences, for violations of restrictions, which the Cabinet of Ministers will now have come up with without the harmonisation of the Saeima. I call for support for this proposal, which will abolish penalties for traders. Please support our proposal at least now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U181	I closed the debate. On behalf of the Commission, will you add something, Mrs. Steel?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U182	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U183	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 33. - a proposal from Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem! Please, let's vote! For - 33, for - 55, for - 1. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U184	34. - the proposal from the Members of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Identical to proposal 33. This has not been supported and cannot be voted on.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U185	So Members have not applied for a debate. Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U186	35. - Mr Valaina's proposal. The content is also equal to proposals 33 and 34. The Commission was not supported and, since the content is the same, there is no longer a vote.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U187	There is no vote, but there is a debate. Please, name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U188	Colleagues! Much has been said about this proposal already in its original form. I am a bit surprised that, however, it was in the Commission that the last section rejected the proposals. In my opinion, this is a misunderstanding of what is happening in small shops in the regions. There they have been making these alarm calls for months, when the shops are closing. You can see in the old man those who work from the Saeima - rarely find which door is still open. And then, to those who have these doors open, I think I have to keep an eye on whether they've entered that store enough... whether there is too much, or something else, and to create a feeling of fear in addition to what they have is simply wrong. In this way, we are only increasing their distrust for public administration, government and so on. So, well, that's... It would be more right here if we were to understand. What has been said to us, too, at the handing over of the bill, that agreement has been reached with sectors and organisations. Well, here we can see clearly that there is no agreement on this, there are letters in the bill attached to this issue that there is no agreement and traders are asking them not to... Don't raise your sword above their heads. Now they're... If they say, there's some unscrupulous... I think it can be done with the wicked. Well, well. But honest traders, who already have enough concern, now have another further concern - I think that is wrong, colleagues. Therefore, although I do not support it, I just wanted to say that I do not think this is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U189	I closed the debate. The proposal is not supported or not put to the vote either. Proposal No 36.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U190	36. - a proposal from Members Stepanenko and Gobzem. It is planned to reinstate children and young people’s sports activities outdoors and indoors within one working day. The proposal was not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U191	Let's start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U192	Dear colleagues, First of all, I must say a great deal of thanks to all those who, on Thursday, last sitting of the Saeima, supported the proposals on the restoration of sport. We see that we had two proposals that were supported, which were mutually competitive. So one proposal was within seven days, if I am not mistaken, to open up sport, and the other was - until 31 March, the government had to figure out the arrangements for opening sport if the epidemiological situation allows it. So the representatives of the government who tabled this last proposal were very well protected against all possible risks of opening sport early (I am currently ironising). So we see that, given that this previous law only came into force today, because the President of Latvia kept it for a few days before announcing it - only yesterday has been signed from the President of Latvia - then we see that from today on, it is sport for us... is too late. Therefore, to supplement the will of the Saeima to formulate it much more clearly than we did in the last sitting, because there were some Members who were really wrong and so we voted in two mutually competing proposals to express a clear position, we are encouraging support for such a proposal, which sets out specifically, therefore, within one working day... I hope that the President of Latvia will not wait long before this law is signed. So he has at least three days to declare this law. If he cannot do two days, maybe he can try one day. Thus, within one working day after the entry into force of these amendments, restores children and young people's sports indoors and outdoors without delay, in accordance with our famous decision of the Saeima on 28 January (which was adopted and still ignored by the government), ensuring regional principles and, consequently, the specificity of sport and supporting and following the procedure established by the Cabinet of Ministers - the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers, which should have been ready for this moment long ago, because the Cabinet of Ministers was able to figure out this order, as it would be when there will be no longer all the risks that have been worried about there. A number of mechanisms in which this is to be ensured, but the specific task is to open up immediately, not to think as we now turn. That's it. We open even the hockey first, because the hockey, as you have already heard, is currently suffering the most, as well as figure skating is suffering the most... together with the hockey. Let's start with it, but let's open it. So this opening must be, not long to sit down and think again, whether we can or cannot, how many numbers there are, how many are not there. That's it! We are starting to open up gradually, in accordance with all the safety protocols that we have already written for since January. Let's go! We don't wait! You can imagine how many children are suffering at the moment and how many children are now in institutions, institutions, because it is absolutely difficult for them to endure this time at the moment. Sport, you know, is the way to help, that way of life that will help children get over this community's madness. Please, dear colleagues, we are no longer baffling; we are simply asking the government to now open within one working day. I accept that everything is ready for the government. All the arrangements have already been drawn up, I hope, because there are so many employees there who can do all this, and we have already put forward a number of proposals on how to do so - both on hockey and basketball... for all sports. Please! We just need to put it on paper, sign it, and everything is ready. I call on my honourable Members to really support this proposal, because it complements the arrangements that we voted last Thursday. It gives concrete clarity. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U193	Name to Member Raimond Bergman. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U194	Good afternoon, colleagues! Well, I think we've talked so much about sport! This will be, if we vote, the third attempt to help. But it feels like it's at school and in many families, maybe... It must change right now, but the attitude is - the main thing to have marks in other... Well, if you're not successful in sport, then nothing. This cannot be because all items are the same in school. And sport, physical activity is what can help us now, because we are all tired, we are all morally hard, but physical activity will help all to recover as well as overcome... It should not be thought that it has not left such deep traces on the health of the entire public. We will continue to fight to overcome this for a long time. I can look at my children, and I see that it will be difficult enough for me to deal with what has happened to the children in the near future. Well, we can talk in different ways, that's what the Sports Sub Commission has already talked about, everything is ready, everything has been discussed, almost every federation has developed its own sanitary protocols, how they could hold a competition, how they could organise exercises. Well, how long do we have to wait and why?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And then the previous... I think yesterday, yeah... I'm just starting that amount of information... It's quite difficult to remember at what time... There is so much talk about this sport. Yesterday too, we hear: well, the Cabinet of Ministers decides now on possible restrictions and lifting of the emergency situation, but sport will be discussed next week. Well, it's like... It's like an unnecessary thing to talk about somewhere. It's not a unnecessary thing, it's a very important thing for society, for children. We say as often as I mentioned in my previous speech: “Children, children, children, children, what is so important to us!” Then we show that attitude and help! Let's help! The sport sector is already close to despair - not only those who are professional athletes and vocational schools, but also those who provide services, the sports industry. It is now on the brink of bankruptcy. They also say they're ready. And all over the world, models have been found to help, how to work. No one says that there is a need to violate some of the security rules that have been developed, but there are opportunities. Here too, it is in this proposal: there is both regional and sporting specificity. Well, it's all named! Why can't the orientation take place? We had in the Sports Commission... autosports... 35 hectares of territory one person sits in one car, dressed... with safety clothing against various accidents. How else he will notice... Is that And that's not enough! And then there is an argument from the Ministry of Health: they could perhaps socialise and celebrate success after the race. If we follow this principle right now in the country, as I said, we are going to harden everything. I cannot understand what is so complicated, and indeed I am asking you - well, think about what will happen to our society if we do not allow people to carry out physical activity in some way. That's the way we're very fast... and its emotions! You know the emotions of sport. So we are so happy with the success of our athletes when they come back from a race. That is why we will also be happy if our society... we will see people on the street playing sports, doing outdoors, competitions. Everywhere in the world we see that we have found opportunities to do something... In the United States even plays volleyball on a square with masks. We can find a way. But let's finally do it! It is a request to listen to and support this time... It seems to me, well, I don't know, three things, good things... Perhaps a fourth - from the heart - will also have to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U195	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U196	Colleagues! I also call for support for this proposal and for all that my colleague, Mr Bergmanis, has said. I believe that if we continue to treat this issue in this way, as if we were in favour at one point, then in the government sitting, we really did not take the decision to the end... But I think society, when I think it's time it's warmer, especially... This will be the case when, quite simply, the public will not listen to what the government tells them. Even now, if you look at what's happening on sports grounds... Now, as soon as time is slightly warmer, people themselves are beginning to develop an understanding of what is safe, what is not safe. Without giving public figures, let us say so, and professional organisations to develop some kind of guidelines, to implement and really organise this sport in a safe way, we achieve... like it was with hairdressers. It's an absolute deception that people didn't go to hairdressers, they didn't go to manicure, and they still know how... at the time when the State limited it. The sport will be the same. Everyone went, cut his hair, and much of the public did. Of course, there was a large part of the society that did not. But those who did... were these safeguards complied with at that time? There was no safety measures there, it was uncontrolled, in full self-control... Well, in a total same self-flow. Now with regard to sport, as soon as time remains warmer... We can see this next week. Anyone can after this sitting today, no matter how long it ends... Go to the nearest sports field, see what's going on there. This is already happening. People are already ignoring all these rules on sport, and they are complying with what they think is right. Is that right if we have once such a crisis at the moment. Everyone understands that these epidemiological risks exist and we do not yet know how this infection will spread. There are plenty of questions. And try now to fight against the natural desire of people to go out to do something... Each of us can follow what is happening in the neighbouring countries, and you can follow what is happening in other countries, just like Mr Bergmanis mentioned where we play volleyball in masks. There are also many other examples of people sharing social networks with experience in their countries. We are the only ones who say: “No, we are better done, we are subject to the rule of law, we ban all of this, and in a very limited way we allow it.” But sport organisations, based on the practice of other countries, experience where these indicators are worse, have found a way to do it safely... We're not doing that. But at the same time, we're watching people simply... You can't sit in that nine-storey two-room or three-room apartment but... Colleagues, most Latvian society lives in these apartments. Well, you can't make them sit there in the summer as well. When it's warmer, they're going out, sports. The question is whether we impose any conditions, whether we do so or not. If we do not, people will do what they want to do and how they can do it. And I fully understand why they will. So that I call for support for this proposal and finally for the introduction of order in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U197	The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U198	Thank you. Colleagues, I predicted that the opposition would have something to do - to continuously make proposals every week to amend the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection, because the second step will be taken at the end of April, in accordance with the decisions taken or currently taken by the government. The rental of sports equipment in the premises is only foreseen at the end of April. If we are talking about the second step that will take place at the end of April, then that step at least provides that the supermarkets also work in full on holiday. And only in the third step, which is planned for May, classes are provided in the gym individually... and not more than eight people simultaneously in the room. Accordingly, for swimming pools where it is written - 50... 25... in swimming pools... Sports outdoors with the size of one training group up to 20 students. So, my colleague, seriously? We foresee outdoor sports only at the third step in May? And we foresee still restrictions and the inability of children and young people to ensure that their healthy stress - emotional, intellectual and mental stress - is removed. This is still foreseen only in May. I believe that this causes very serious damage to mental health and also to physical health in particular for children and young people. Those restrictions, which have been in place for almost six months, also in terms of social health and balance, are very dangerous. I very much ask my colleagues to think about the results of this long, strict burning of red light throughout the country's territory, the conclusions that people will draw. I really very much hope that you, regardless of anyone... Do not allow a very narrow and limited view of the solutions to the problems - to ban everything everywhere. Please think about it. I call for a different treatment of sport - thoughtfully. I therefore ask for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U199	First name to Ivan Klementyev Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U200	Good evening, honourable colleagues! While we are discussing here - whether or not to allow sports for children - today, today, Dennis Vassiliev has fulfilled the Olympic qualification at the world championship in Stockholm and has acquired the right to play in the Olympics that will take place in Beijing next year. This is a good success. Congratulations to him and the entire figure skating federation! But do you have any sports or not? We've been asking from 21 January: Give us your comments, as you can see... how to implement this programme. You can't play in a massive way - well, we do it individually! Show it to schedule, show it to chart - how. Well, in three months, you can figure out something or you can't figure it out? Last time I told you about the problems... Sick children sitting at home - can't see friends, can't do sport either. At each school there is a stadium, there are built squares with artificial cover, there is lighting. Please draw up a schedule for sports there, out if it is not possible to sport inside. You can play many games, you can run or you can go on footage, you could ski too, you could have dealt with orientation. There are many opportunities to do what you need to do, think. If you do not think one or two steps forward, you are losers. It's a absurd rule that... Nobody wants to do anything. Now we decided something, yesterday we started to look at a draft law that is not yet on paper. It's coming today... Then he got something... Tomorrow, the Cabinet will look at something else, we do not know what. Then we will live and wait for what will be... It'll be accepted on Monday... Well maybe it will assume that once a week the Cabinet will work, and that's it. We work in the family already 370 days in chaotic mode - all the time exceptional, exceptional... So when are we going to start working in the normal way, just as we're starting to work everywhere in the world, right here? With masks, but in person! Perhaps we too can go back to work on the spot? I invite the Cabinet to also start working in person - with masks, masks bought by them, good or bad, but with masks - so that you can talk. Not only in digital format to work, but normal, realistic - face to face. I cannot support this law because it is an absurd law. We need to think one step forward. The summer's coming. How are we going to live in summer? Now they could figure out something in 370 days. And that won't end tomorrow. We all applied for vaccination. Well, what? You applied. Someone told you when there's your line when there's going to be? In June, July or January next year, will you have a row? You don't know, there's no clarity. The office's working, isn't it? We do not know about this, we do not have any data, or there are data that are wrong. You can't predict anything... So let's let the kids do something! Let us take at least one step forward, let us move gradually, and let us take one step forward, no matter how much someone sees we think of them. Thank you. I don't support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U201	The name to Member Ralph Nemir. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U202	Dear President, Good evening to all my colleagues! I also call for thought to be given to sport, to competition, in particular, how to support sport for young people. This is very important because young people are promoting their health through sport, thereby also ensuring that their immunity is strengthened. Strengthening immunity is particularly important at this time when we are talking about the influence of the community. Undoubtedly, sport should not be considered to be in any way compatible with non-compliance with the epidemiological requirements. There can be no talk about this. However, I think that such a proposal should be supported. I also know many Members who have a direct connection with sport, an active lifestyle and who, at this time, are also willing to play sport, to improve their health. This is especially important for young people. The distanced training mode provides passive accommodation at home. Sport activities and mobility are extremely limited. The sports hours were actually the only ones that gave children the opportunity to move in a working mode that is in the hours. This is not the case now. Currently, there are remote trainings, and so many children have lacked physical fitness and physical activity in everyday life. Where else to talk about some sports parties that... The children had enough... Well, let's say, a lot of time if we look at this week's schedule. I believe that sports opportunities must definitely be given, and it must be allowed. This proposal does, however, stimulate this. We are not talking at any time in this proposal about any violation of the epidemiological rules. On the contrary, we are talking about strengthening health. Here I am not only talking about physical health, it is also about psychological health, psychological resistance to stress, the impact of this community and its consequences. In my opinion, the proposal should be supported, and many sports are where young people can comply with the epidemiological rules. Perhaps it is not about allowing the dressing room to be used; children can be brought to a school or a sports group already dressed up - they do physical activities and leave. This usual practice is already taking place in training... so, not to mention the sport sector, which is indeed very affected, not this time, but precisely this aspect of health. I think that physical activity is very important for me to work more actively, to prepare for work. I also call on you to sport and therefore also to support this proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U203	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U204	Dear President, Dear colleagues, I also call for this proposal to be strongly supported, because in the meantime, in particular, after 28 January, when we were all practically unanimous in our support... that it is possible to re-establish children and young people's sport in accordance with the health protocol... This was not done. We see and hear - let us not pretend that this is not the case! - that there are some athletes and certain organizations who are training children illegally: put down the windows of the gym so no one can see, the parents put the cars away and go... children lead to these exercises only so that the child will not lose his professional... physical condition compared to other young people, especially those who want to develop professionally at European level, so that Latvian athletes, especially those currently in the U-10, U-14, U-16 age group, who are not professional athletes... because they care about every workout. Talk to athletes! Talk to basketball player Kambal. Talk to Mrs. Briede, those who have been professionals or who are still professionals. Ask them what it would mean if they had spent a month, two, three, four years in professional sports... or in this case we're talking about a year... and wouldn't have trained - normally trained. Many children are sitting at home all day on TVs and tablets... And MS Teams in the environment happens, now restored is happening, these... This training... I'm not moving. Especially those who live in apartment houses, who cannot run through the local park at home, lose a lot - not only their physical condition, but also their health in general. Colleagues, it is very important for us that children, young people, especially groups, resume their training without delay, subject to a health report or any other logical health requirements - ventilation or something like that. But not for us politicians to decide on it at the moment. There are professionals who can tell you what these requirements are. Let us see how happens in other European countries where this is allowed. In many countries of the European Union, children are currently training under various criteria, epidemiological conditions. In healthy body, whole spirit! This is vital for our next generation. And not only for children, young people, but also for adults, it is very important to do sports and to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Therefore, colleagues, I support this proposal. I really call on everyone to support this proposal so that the Cabinet of Ministers, with Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš, will immediately draw up the regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers so that now, after the entry into force of this law, these lessons will resume. That is what the Minister of Education and the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science have also called for, that it is necessary to reopen, to find a way of doing sport safely for children, young people, a healthy lifestyle. I call on my fellow Members to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U205	The name of the Member, Lubov Svedov, for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U206	Thank you. I am just asking my colleagues very much from the position and from the relevant... under the supervision of the respective ministries, in particular the Ministry of Education and Science... if we are talking about sport, about children and young people, that is, I would like to say that the document before the Cabinet provides that the shopping centres will also work in full on holiday... at the end of April. This is the second step that the government intends to adopt and implement, as appropriate, but nothing is said about children and youth sport. Only at the third and fourth steps will information appear accordingly - that is, in May and June when it comes to sport. And it's only in May, when it's probably... will be allowed to play sports outdoors, and the size of one training group of up to 20 students. Colleagues, then it happens that the government will open shops, but sport for children and young people will still be closed until the end of May. Is physical health of children and young people important to the Ministry of Education and Science? You will draw attention to the plans you are writing and to the logic of the restrictions adopted and the incentives thus adopted. There must be a balance: a balance between restrictive measures and the restrictions imposed on the sectors and municipalities concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U207	Name to Member Ivan Klementyev for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U208	Hello! I call on Members to look at their phone devices. There's a function - how many steps you've taken today, yesterday and in previous days. How many are you in there? There are five thousand steps today or yesterday or not? This is the measure of how moving you are, how much you strengthen your health. So, before you vote, check yourself and, if you do not have five or ten thousand steps today, do not vote better if you do not want to support this proposal. But the very word “sport”. When the Ministry of Education and Science changed the title of “physical education” to “sport”, many, including children, were afraid of its name, all thought that sport was a major achievement or a high achievement of sport. I am now looking at the fact that Members are also afraid of sport. Do you know what some sports look like, for example, rowing? The airman alone sits in the boat, drives alone on the river, and near - not 100 meters or 200 meters - there is no one. Can't he drive? Each track shall be six metres; six nine metres between rowers. Why are they unable to take part in competitions? We're going to celebrate then? It's been a long time since athletes won't win anything, there's no such event. You have a suspicion, I don't know how it was in the 1970s or 1980s. There is no such celebration, especially if there is no medal. It is necessary to make a separate decision on each sport. The Federations have rules in place and will comply with them. So, before you vote, look at your phone device as much steps you have today, you have the right to vote against this proposal or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U209	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U210	Hello! I do not understand at all why a debate on this proposal is needed. I cannot understand how a normal person could not vote in favour of this proposal. Our children, the children of Latvia, have been stolen one year from their childhood. And a fee for the fact that we can't... that, unlike Belgium, for example, the country is unable to provide children with continuous training in on-site schools - not only kindergartens, but also in schools... only shows that we, as a society, will pay very much. Let us pay for children's health, with the retardation of our children's physical and intellectual development. Yeah, seriously, it's a lag. Children have been stolen one year from childhood and one year from their normal development. By not voting now in favour of this proposal only means that it is your priority to keep this coalition and this government. Do you think with your head, do you simply not know what happens in society and how people live in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U211	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U212	Good evening! I would like to divide my speech into two parts, one part of the heading and one part of the opposition. If we are talking about position. Today in the social networks there were regular photographs of a Riga microdistrict, where a young girl had jumped through the window, made a suicide. These are the consequences of your actions, dear position. It's the result that you're trapping people. These consequences are more serious and more serious than what you protect. And you'll get an answer for that. I am deeply convinced of this. And the other part is for the opposition. Dear opposition, I think these are all empty speeches. This week, you were invited to sign the request for Karina's resignation. COORDINATION and ZZI did not sign. Only members of the ‘Law and Order’ signed. You too support this government, you support in fact the fact that you know that this proposal will also be rejected. The pressure shall be carried out at the request of the competent authority. Now be a true opposition, not a false opposition! You are helping to keep this government that makes these laws. That's right. None of you signed the request for Karin's flight. Nobody! For children. I think absolutely everything has been said this year - absolutely everything! - on this subject. What you are doing is a crime against humanity, the relevant paragraph of the Criminal Law. As you are happy today that Lemberg is sitting in prison, the day will come when someone will be happy that you will sit in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U213	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U214	Dear colleagues, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to my colleague, Mrs Švekova, who, in my opinion, opened your eyes to all of you by reading perhaps something you are unable to read. This is a government plan, and it must be concluded, in essence, that the government is fooling both you, the honourable coalition colleagues who, perhaps, were unable to follow all the government's pirates as well as the public. At the moment we are set in such a stupid role that we, together with you, dear coalition, have condemned all federations that, now, with 31 March, at least all sports with various limitations will be opened. As you have heard from this debate, nothing similar will be done. Nothing like that will be done, we'll be... we will continue to be bloated. And you know why? Likely, such a simple theory could be that of earning someone at the expense of the hockey championship. We are with you, that is, you who are now voting against, just keeping your children in prison, not allowing them to do anything just so that a gentleman can earn money at the expense of this championship, at the expense of the organization. That's just why. Look at the price, look at the price! If it is so difficult for you, if you are worried that someone will celebrate, please record in the Cabinet Regulations that you must not celebrate. You have all the right to record anything you want, just allow, please, one working day at least one sport, hockey, something or at least. Let's start with it. Please, colleagues, support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U215	I closed the debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of 36. - The motion by the Saeima Members Julia Stepanenko and Alda Gobzem! Please, let's vote! For - 39, against - 47, abstaining - 5. The proposal is not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U216	37. - the proposal from the Members of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Is identical 36. There is no support and no vote in the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U217	Unfortunately, the proposal cannot be put to the vote. So go on.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U218	38. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice. The law will enter into force immediately so that there will be no disruption at the end of the state of emergency. The proposal was supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U219	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U220	We have therefore examined all the proposals that have been tabled. I call for support to be given to the draft law at second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-25-PT13-2224-U221	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! For - 58, for - 8, for - 23. The law is passed. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the agenda for the remote emergency sitting of 25 March. Only the registration of Members. I now announce a break for 15 minutes, and we will resume work on the agenda of the third remote emergency session on 25 March. Therefore,... Draft Law “Amendments to the Law “On Insurance In the Case of Unemployment”” and Draft Decision on the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 24 March 2021 No. 185. Registration is over. We continue at 19.15 a.m.
