ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law shall be examined on the agenda. Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”. On this draft law, the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Ilmars Dūriņš: “In accordance with Article 136 of the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, please return the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 933/Lp13) back to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption.’ It is possible for us to debate this proposal, to speak. One can talk about, one can talk about. Please log in. Please name Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U2	Dear colleagues!...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U3	I am sorry, Mrs Stepanenko, to talk about or against?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U4	I will say 'no'. I call on honourable colleagues from the coalition to take into account, first of all, the fact that there are very many very important proposals in this draft law, which have been waiting for more than a week. These proposals concern both children's sport... And we can read what is happening to teenagers who are currently not receiving any support. Wait, please, what is happening now with your teenagers and what a teen disaster is... those who have reached institutions... after they've been sitting on the computer for hours and haven't even been able to turn off... and trying to entertain themselves in some other way, using various intoxicating substances, getting into depression... It's all at the expense of Mr. Dūreis, it's all at the conscience of Mr. Dūreis and at the conscience of Mr. Skride, and at the conscience of Mr. Pavļuts, because you just want to cover your own right now... your guys, save them from the labour exchange. That is what you are doing at the moment. You therefore want to bring this draft law back to the Commission, while we have more time that we could devote to other proposals. Just because you are afraid that the Saeima will vote today for the abolition of the vaccination office and you will not be able to hide in the same law the way in which the staff of the vaccination office will be able to receive the same amount of money in another unit. That's why you slow down this bill for more than a week and now you want it back to the Commission with shame. It is only because you, Mr Dūrish, have promised your mirths in this vaccination office that they will not lose their jobs and that they will be able to continue to do nothing again at the expense of all our taxpayers. You are doing this at the moment, and you have a reservation about the 18 thousand signatures that have been gathered in two days only because people do not want this vaccination office, they are just tired of these shameless spendings and the "sawing" of this money only for their own people, and not for people who keep you for their taxes. That's why you want to return this bill so that you can make schemes again, so that you can save your shit, and you have to be concerned about both children who are currently suffering abnormally and traders who already don't know how to survive these days. You have reservations about all those waiting for these proposals - support in this draft law. You don't care. The only thing you can think about -- just about your wallet and your butt. It's the only thing that bothers you in this so-called pandemic, you only care about your... to your guys, to your guys. You're in no way... You are not at all concerned about what proposals you are currently holding back, Mr. Durysh! No way! Read what people write! How can they survive at the moment? What About Young People! What happens to the children! What happens to your parents! You're not older, you're never older. You do not know what this is at all: how to support your child when he is suffering during this pandemic. I call on you, honourable colleagues from the coalition, those who were ready to support this proposal for the abolition of the vaccination office at last sitting - do not listen to Mr Dūritis, do not return this bill to the committee! We don't need to cover these machinators. Do not support, vote against! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U5	Mrs Stepanenko, please... treat colleagues a little respectfully. Mr Gobzem, are you going to talk about Mr. Durish's application? Will you talk about it? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: “I will talk about the application of Mr. Duriša.” ) Name of Member Aldim Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U6	Yes, and I also call on all stabs and others to treat society with respect. At a time when Mr. Dūrišs wants to withdraw a draft law that is essential for the protection of public interests, psytherapist Inga Birkmane has published such a message (i quote): “I have settled three teenagers in my first week after my vacation. At the same time, they are either 1 or 2 hospitalized teenagers a year. Want to know what they're doing? Well, for example, someone sleeps in bed all day, someone turns around, someone shoots, someone burns himself, someone alarms and panic attacks all day long, and the only thing you find for comfort is the grass.” Marihuan! ‘ One weeps off, someone takes over the medication that comes to the computer because the desire to get out of the computer has disappeared. How many more people just don't see the meaning of life anymore... We are no longer able to cope. With all my heart, mind, reason and higher reason, I am absolutely convinced that fighting the pandemic that is happening today is destructive. I will not argue about the fact that the circumstances have been more difficult. Nor is it the fact that love is catastrophicly lacking at all levels, not just in families. But unless a person has a chance not to make things worse, we don’t have to put our hand on it.’ My insertion... Mr. Durishi. ‘ Teenagers balance their love with socializing, training, hobbies, their communal, a school that would be interested in “other adults”. Now... survive those who have strong families. But not close to everyone. I already lack the power to argue. There, in the chairs of power that you need seriously...”... On the forehead, my insertion, Mr. Durty! ‘ I got red lights on the table... “ ( Mr. Pavilut, it’s also my insertion) “... Don't blink anymore. I've been shooting the corks for a long time.” It writes psychotherapist Inga Birkmane. And you... And I call on you to vote in favour of our nation, our children's traitors, Mr. Durys, the destroyer, the cash collector... In the vaccination offices that you will now add... You're going to increase its headquarters there or something, Mr. Dourish. We already know, Mr Durish, that procurement of your research - about cut cucumbers and tomatoes - at your university or where you are lobbying. You're a bear to lobbying, how money comes from people, our taxpayers' money, how to destroy the people of Latvia, Mr. Dūrišs. Very likely... Mr. Durishi, I don't know... Do you have children? I don't think it is. And I think that's the answer why you did it. Those like you shouldn't be in my mind, Mr. Dourish (this is my deep conviction!) , Parliament, because you are voting against the people. You are voting... and I want you to vote today in favour and to show it in every subsequent vote, Mr Dūritis, to talk again in the sweet pillars about how we need a regular vaccination newspaper on screwed prices where... there will be a man from Daces Rukšane-Schipčinskas - a man from your group. Because it's already the money of those parents, it's not yours. You will already give again some purchases to the vaccination office and to the rest. Mr. Durishi, I know you don't treat people, but I think cats. Why don't you go to a psychological clinic and see that they're overcrowded with those who don't bear the load that you put on them...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U7	Please, Mr. Gobzem...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U8	But that is true, Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas. But that is true, Mrs Beitneres-Le Galla! That's right!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U9	Mr Gobzem, I'm sorry, please don't be in person. Please, no personal attacks. One Member has spoken for, one against. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the motion put forward by Member Ilmars Dūrišs: "In accordance with Article 136 of the Parliamentary roll of order, please return the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection" (No. 933/Lp13) back to the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption”! Please, let's vote! For - 55, for - 8, for - 17. According to your vote, the motion of the Member, Ilmar Dūris, has been supported and the decision... The project has been submitted back to the Commission for review. Please enable a section on the procedure. And I ask the Member Ilmar Durty to apply. Name to Member Ilmar Duritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U10	Hello, very honourable Chairman of the Saeima! High honourable Members! Thank you, thank you. I wanted to talk about the procedure before the vote, but... Thank you very much for your support. I just wanted to justify that this proposal is also based on a request from the Ministry of Health - more detailed in the Commission... So go back to a few more proposals. But clearly... on the procedure, I would very much like to ask the Bureau to see if the Member applying to speak 'for' really talks about this draft decision and about the referral... on voting... No, no, no, no, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U11	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U12	I'm also about the procedure. In reply to Mr Dūrišs, I would like to say that Mr Dūrišs should then take advantage of the opportunities he has been given as a Member and apply in good time! If that is not the case, you know, here's the result. So... We have a roll of order, and everyone has the opportunity to use it, and I think everything is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U13	The name of the Member, Martin Bondar. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U14	I fully agree with Mr Dūris that, however, we should be some sort of collegial... understand the need to talk about and against those who sincerely believe that... either for or against. Because otherwise... Otherwise you... dear opposition, you're hypocrites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U15	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U16	I think I do! - it's hypocritical that Mārtiņš Bondar said of "Development/About!" and, more generally, Development/About! group people because they introduced this culture into this 13. In the family. You were the ones who started such political moves. So, for hypocrisy... Please keep this with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U17	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U18	Yeah, thank you. Again. I'm not gonna be late. I just want to say that clearly... in this bill... Rules and proposals supported by the Commission in part... in view of the emergency... has already entered into force and is working. Because there is no basis for these attacks from the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U19	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U20	Colleagues! We call hypocrites those who talk about protection and support to people only in their Facebook profiles and Twitters, but in fact always vote against and think only about their own wallet. And hypocrisy in this case has another word – “Development/About!” . That is what we have been talking about on several occasions in this parliamentary sittings: that at one point we are heading with people with disabilities (you, Mr Bondara and others), but at the other point you are voting against the support of people with disabilities. You do it systematically. What you have done at the moment is that you have hypocritically voted in favour of saving the vaccination office. And the 18 thousand people who voted in favour of the abolition of the vaccination office on these holidays were simply shown an indecent gesture on your part.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U21	Thank you. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U22	Mrs Beitneres-Le Gallas, I am asking you very much to explain to Mr Dūrišs, first of all, the order set out in the Rules of Procedure, so that Mr Dūrišs can be clear about how he applies to the debate in question. That's the number one. And number two. I also call...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U23	Mr. Gobzem, thank you. ( The sound is broken.) ... This debate. Maybe we're going to work! Thank you. On the procedure. We've clarified the relationship. Please return to our agenda! On the agenda - examination of a request from Members. Members Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Janīna Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tavars, Māris Kučinskis, Edgars Dauge... Sorry, Gundars Dauge, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jānis Vucāns have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš “Who will answer for the lives of people who will be lost in March due to the absence of vaccines”. Name for motivation to Member Viktor Valainis. Please! Please! Name to Member Viktor Valain, please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U24	Yeah, thank you. Colleagues! There is now a situation where we not only do not have vaccines, but not just us (A sound break.) ... We can't get this vaccine out of Latvia, despite that... Eva Juhveviča, the head of its office, openly acknowledged on Latvian Television that in March there will be an acute shortage of vaccines. And now... The government demonstrates at all times that they also do not have an understanding of how to organise this vaccination process and that mistakes are made in one way or another. That is why, in our view, this request is for the Prime Minister to explain what is to blame and also the model of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U25	Please call me! We will vote for a Member Viktors Valaiņa, Ulda Augulis, Janina Jalinska, Jānis Dūklavs, Edgars Tatars, Māra Kučinska, Gundars Dauges, Armands Krauze, Raimonds Bergmanis and Jānis Vacāns' request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “ Who will answer for the lives of people who will be lost in March due to the absence of vaccines”! Please, let's vote! On - 25, against - 38, refraining from - 1. The proposal was rejected. The following item is on the agenda: the opinion of the Petitions Commission. Member Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Clementyeva, Boris Cileviča, Igora Pimenova, Regina Lochmele’s request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity of decisions made by your government regarding limiting the spread of Covid-19 disease”. On behalf of the Commission, Ivars Puga, Member.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U26	Hello, colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! The Panel examined the request made by Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišāna, Valeria Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Klementyeva, Boris Cileviča, Igora Pimenova, Regina Lochmele to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity of decisions taken by your government regarding the containment of Covid-19 disease” (No. 49/P13) and, by voting on six in favour, nine in favour and one in the absence of a single Member, admitted that the request made by Members should be rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U27	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U28	Colleagues, I would like to apply for a procedure. Enter the procedure section where possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U29	Please enable a section on the procedure. Please apply, Mr. Valaiņš. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U30	Colleagues, previous vote... I have a huge misunderstanding about why such a question was put to the vote. I am invited to the chair of the sitting to explain what happened in the previous vote... the transmission of the request. In my opinion, following the roll of order of the Saeima, such a vote must not be called upon at all, and you have violated the roll of order of the Saeima by calling for it. However, this request is still being submitted to the Request Commission, not to declare that it has not yet been dealt with by the Request Commission... And the Saeima has no such right (A sound break.) ...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U31	Mr. Valains, we didn't hear you. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U32	Dear colleagues, I also applied to talk about the procedure, but I will talk about the procedure in addition if you give me another word. I'm in favour of Mr. Valaiņa's remark. I would like to say - if Mr Valaiņa does not have the opportunity to speak at the moment because of the disruption of the Internet - that the problem is that Mr Valaiņa has submitted a request from - Members - and we do not have to vote on this request at the Saeima sitting. We are listening to Mr Valaiņa's report by making this request, and we are simply sending this request to the Request Commission. What we are going to vote on today is already the opinion of the Request Commission on the request that has already been dealt with. So that this vote, which was followed by Mr Valaiņa's text, is, in fact, not legitimate at all, and must be cancelled because of this vote... this vote should not have taken place at all - it should not have happened, because the request has just been submitted to the Saeima, it has not been seen. We cannot vote in favour at all. I ask you to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U33	Yes, thank you, Mrs Stepanenko. I mean, I was wrong. The Commission did not have to vote on the referral and the request was therefore referred to the Commission. On the procedure. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U34	Yeah, well, but... Talking about the procedure... I would now like to receive an explanation from the Legal Bureau. Although it was not put to the vote, the Saeima has decided, we have voted for... do not pass it on to the Commission. What, then, is it? This situation... Do we not need another vote: a vote for we to cancel this vote because the Saeima has actually decided? The leaders of the people have taken their decision by a majority. What to do with this decision now? The question is now about the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U35	Thank you. The request shall be addressed to the Commission. We see Members Ivars Zariņa, Jānis Krišana, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Klementyeva, Boris Cileviča, Igora Pimenova, Regina Lochmele's request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš “On the validity of decisions made by your government regarding limiting the spread of Covid-19 disease”. The Request Commission is... Let us start a debate. Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U36	Good afternoon, everyone! Yes, so what is this request about? This request is made by Krišjānis Kariņš regarding the validity of the decisions made by his government in relation to the suppression of Covid-19 disease. This request was submitted already at the beginning of February, 4 February. It is more than a month since we finally reached this request. This request was largely due to the fact that the public addressed us with questions, asking us to explain the merits of the decisions taken by the government. This was precisely related to these legendary restrictions on goods, restrictions on the range of goods. People tried to understand the reasons. Neither did we understand the reasons for these government decisions, and since the government had not spoken anywhere and had not been able to explain the validity of its decisions, we prepared this request to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņš. Unfortunately, the answer did not allow us to be disappointed. In other words, we received a completely pointless, unconnected answer, a complete write-off... and full of pearls with which I will share with you today, so that you all have the opportunity to see how responsible, how competent and meaningful this government decides. There were several specific situations that we asked for clarification, such as why alcohol and cigarettes can be sold, but children's goods can't be sold, why a baker's paper can be sold, but no foil can be sold right there. Here are all the things people asked us: explain, we do not understand why the government has decided. Why shouldn't books not be sold? And so on, and so on. Why can't a man go and buy a radiator for himself on the winter island if it's broken, or replace a toilet tap, a toilet pot if it's broken? And a whole range of questions. What did he say? So this answer was delegated by Krišjānis Kariņš... Of course, he was afraid to answer, he was afraid or just realized that he didn't understand anything, because in essence... There was one great contribution from this request - after it was received, in a few days, Krišjānis Kariņš publicly admitted that the government was making its decisions without proper analysis and the necessary data. So this demand had already reached its target for Krišjānis Kariņš. We helped him to understand - after a year's decision in his government! - that they make their decisions pointless. This is also confirmed by the replies made to this request. Let's start with the brilliantest. Let's start in a row. Already in first paragraph... When asked about all these ‘excellent’ restrictions, the answer explains that they have been adopted when assessing the impact of the previously established safety measures on the epidemiological situation and the effectiveness of their effects. Very correct, beautiful, voluminous formulation. At the Panel meeting, we asked the Minister for Economic Affairs a timid question: then give us, please, this assessment: the impact of security measures on the epidemiological situation and the effectiveness of its effects... if you have done so. Of course, the answer was not possible. This means that those people have either written for themselves what they do not understand, or they have just tried to lie again, to continue lying, as they have done all this time on the basis of their own, government, decisions. This is already the problem, why the government is not smelling on communication, why it is in no way possible to explain to the public and get public support for its actions, because action is pointless, chaotic, irresponsible and incompetent. And we will see this later, with some examples of these answers, I will keep a record of this for you. Go on. Such a specific case, for example. We asked about limiting the trade in books. Why were the sale of books to be restricted? The answer was clear that the decision was aimed at reducing the risk of Covid-19 infection at the point of sale. Then there is a valid question. A person who thinks logically demands: well, what are these risks of infection in the places of sale? How big are they? Unfortunately, in all those tables that have been submitted by the government and that describe... you will not find a talk there about the risks of infection in the places of sale. We can see that this is about work, about households, about jobs, about transport, but about the risks of spreading infection at the places of sale, you will not find any data on this. And if the government says it's essential... and, of course, it has a role to play in limiting the risks of the spread of infection, but there should be some kind of reference system. There is no such reference system. More! A well-founded question that arises right away to a thoughtful person - if you don't allow a man to read books, then... The question we had put to Krišjānis Kariņš - so that he could justify what he thinks... like he thinks if a person is denied a job... If we want people to be as isolated as possible and unsociable, then the question is: If a person is denied the opportunity to read books, do not allow new books to be bought, whether it will facilitate his stay, sitting at home, or vice versa... Is that so? Where's the logic here? Why did I give this example? Of course, this is a rhetorical question. Anyone, I am sorry, an idiot would be clear about the impact of such a restriction. But why? I am raising this, talking about it, so that you can see how narrow a government, those in power, is dealing with this situation, that is, for them... by the same Excel table example... If we change a parameter in Excel's table, then it means that everything will automatically change, that people are exactly the same statistical values, obedient flow that just... If the fan is turned in one place, it will disappear in another place. That is the narrow thinking on the part of power, which they are demonstrating at the moment. That is, if a person is not in a marketplace, then he must be somewhere else. Do you really think that people are just like particles that can be anichilated or immersed in anabiose? You just say--hop, all, now you don't move anywhere, and all! And people will disappear. That's not the case! If you move them from one place to another, they gather in another place. If you can't think systemically, then you'll never be able to make meaningful restrictions on this whole... Let's go. I have about 20 such details marked here in these answers. Of course, in the meantime I will not be able to pass through them; I will take a few more, the most significant. One of the questions was precisely why alcohol may be sold, but children’s affairs must not be sold. The Government's answer seems very important to me. I'll do it right away so that I don't make something up myself. From the beginning, so, about this restriction on children's possessions... why children's goods cannot be bought. This limit... Do they even admit that it has really been meaningful - in winter... Remember, there was a huge cold, a low temperature, and the people who approached us said: “What do we do? We need children to buy new clothes, warm clothes, but we simply cannot buy them. We are growing up, we do not know exactly what they will need, we cannot just buy on the blind, but actually take these clothes and hold them up, put them on, try to put them on so we can't buy them.” So the child has no appropriate clothes in winter. What is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economics, our government? When asked: “Do you really think that this is an appropriate restriction, a reasonable, meaningful restriction, and you support it?” , they reply: ‘It must be pointed out that that restriction achieves the purpose of the decision - to reduce the duration and frequency of the stay of the visitors at the point of sale - and in the short term it is considered to be reasonable, proportionate and justified’. In all seriousness, they say it! And rightly we asked the Minister for Economics to tell him how long it was then that the acceptable term for a child to stay without adequate clothing outside the winter island... Well, if the Minister considers it to be of full seriousness. Of course, we did not get an answer. We did not receive an answer to almost one question; there was simply an empty, general embarrassment. Go on. We asked why it is that alcohol and cigarettes can be sold, but children's goods cannot be sold. The answer was that it happened because... The government has taken this decision in view of the growing social tensions in society and the demand for these goods during the forthcoming holidays. Johaidi! It shows this government's thinking. So, bread and fun. What does a nation need to be subject to? You need bread and fun! So we can sell alcohol and cigarettes because we need to remove social tensions, especially during the upcoming holidays. But the tension that you create for families that cannot put on their child? Doesn't it count?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, So I have a question: what is causing more tension? Will there be greater strain on the family by the fact that they do not have alcohol — or, of course, in individual families, by the fact that they cannot dress up their children properly and expose the child to health and possibly even life risks? This has not been understood by the government. Go on. We also asked one important point: what is the success then? What have you achieved with these restrictions in the fight against this infection, in the fight against the spread of this infection? What was written in the reply... It is a very significant answer that shows this power, shows their sense of mind, at all, as they look at things. They started to count on what they have achieved with these restrictions - that the turnover for catering has fallen by 68 percent, the first need for goods by 30 percent, the turnover for other goods by 47 percent. Okay. Clearly, turnover has fallen. But that is all they have answered! Colleagues! The question was about the risks of infection. So it would be normal if this government, this power, had any sense at all, that... if they were to correlate further and show how all this has been done... about the risks of infection... because we have not already asked how much you have broken the economy with your decisions. Clearly, the economy will suffer. This is a understandable fact, but the whole government's analysis stops with it: yes, for the economy we have struck, for the turnover of still millions has fallen, it's all right, so we also... we are fighting infection risks. And there's a problem here! This is where the fundamental problem of this government's decisions emerge. Why does society not accept them? Because society itself doesn't make sense... It can't see these causal relationships... specific actions to actually affect the spread of the infection. They see only the first step. They've reduced... having struck the economy, turnover has decreased and now they assume that the risks of infection have also decreased. Yes, they have fallen, but we cannot appreciate how meaningful it has been. Maybe there shouldn't have been a shock. Maybe what's happening would be... other measures should be taken in general. Similar as we see with regard to public transport. Public transport is very often spoken about. Very often we see statements that we are asked to apply or to be careful of those who have travelled on a Riga-some city. But have you ever heard that it should be said that all those who go in that way and in that route of public transport should be careful, for it is revealed there and it? Never! You have never heard that people should have been on the 15th trolleybus. There's no community, although there's a much bigger density than in intercity journeys? This is one example. Likewise, when talking about these all the restrictions... Your Honorable Government (if someone still honors you), you don't have to think for yourself why your decisions... less and less respect? One reason is that you do not understand yourself, you do not understand what you are making, these decisions are often unfounded. If that is not the case, I would like you to apply... let them apply... I remember, we had a debate... Mr Ranzan has also said that he has had a very careful weighing of all decisions. Now you can apply for a debate and tell us where this government's assessment - in particular about these restrictions on goods - is, as it has actually done. What we see and what was also confirmed by the Ministry of Economics in its replies - when this trade regime, regime... These restrictions were removed, and the prevalence of infection did not increase, but decreased. But there should have been some sort of analysis on this too. I assume that there may be people there who have not studied physics, and here really - really! - fit this legendary saying, which could be applied to our government: “Children, learn physics!” So, with regard to the limitations that you accept, say, for marketing areas, the key is not to square metres, but to the quality of the air: if the air is not adequately ventilated there, then... You can already make people go as far as you want, but they'll all be infected if there's no ventilation there. It would be the first to think about it. Given that the time allowed for my speech is running out, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the government must start not to think about how to get rid of these risks, but about how to manage these risks, because it is obvious that this infection is going to stay, it will not stop, there will be a wave after the wave, and vaccination... We don't know when it's over. This is very important: to start thinking in the long term, not as a fool to get everything out of it. But if you are truly prepared to take on the responsibility of authority, make responsible decisions to manage these risks and give the opportunity to lead others. This is very important, especially for our economy. I call for this request to be supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U37	We are continuing the debate. The name of the Member, John Adamson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U38	Hello, colleagues! I admire the optimism of Mr. Zarins. He hopes that he can knock on the government until some understanding and that the answers to the questions asked in the request will be logical and reasonable. Mr. Zarins, I think it is clear to everyone that there will be no such answers. It will not be because we live in a country where the President of Latvia violates the Constitution when the candidate for the post of Prime Minister is named - not he himself calls, assesses, but he agrees with what he recommends. We also have a Prime Minister who does not respect the Constitution. In shaping the government, he agrees with what the political parties recommend to him, without assessing whether it is good or bad. He advised, we'll confirm it. In short, colleagues, we live in a mafiosing country where mafios structures have set aside all the people of our executive power, and they are those who make decisions, but those who spy and dance in the government - they are temporary performers. Representatives of these mafiozo structures have no political affiliation, as they served previous governments or municipalities, so they continue to serve and waste our country's money. It is logical, therefore, that we cannot expect any reasonable proposals. How, then, have we come to such a life? At least in my mind, this is the third most brightest crisis. I guess it's the most dangerous thing. The first one was in 1994, 1995. Financial, budgetary, economic crisis. It is also possible to say - the criminal crisis, when 72 organised criminal groups were operating in the country of Latvia, when people were afraid to go out on the street in the evenings and nights, because the main kings were bandits. The Ministry of the Interior then, by imposing professional forces, destroyed the racket within a year, and in fact 72 organised crime groups were destroyed. Then the organized crime broke, but it did not abandon its intentions and continued to develop. And your development... Such an apogeius began after 8. In the parliamentary elections, when I wrote to the President of State about what parties and how many donations have been received from organised crime world and groups 8. The Saeima's election. Sadly, at that time, a single paragraph appeared in one newspaper that it was that money was actually received, and nothing further was followed. Colleagues! What followed after the elections won the “New Time ” and Mr. Repsche became the Prime Minister? First and foremost, professionals were expelled from home affairs and law enforcement system structures, especially those who in time initiated and initiated criminal proceedings against the then bank... In 1995, the President of the Bank, Mr Repše, and the Vice-President of the Bank, for the abuse of their status. After all, the law enforcement system was degraded in every way; police, fire-fighters, border guards could not receive social benefits in the so-called fat years and also in the rest of the years... vacations and so on... Forced people to go... I think that a lot of a litre of graduating people were used there... when a decision was taken on the liquidation of the Latvian Police Academy. It was the crown itself, it was what the organised crime was waiting for, which already started to turn into national organised crime (a new form of organised crime). As I said, they do not really care what is in power; the most important thing is that they are near it, and they are those who really make these decisions. And then... We can look back on the OIC scene, which was laid down by Mr. Kariņš. We can look back on Parex Banka, where billions... taxpayers' money was invested, but Citadele was sold for 70 million; before that, certain politicians and group leaders went to Georgia on a tour to apparently agree on all these things. We can remember the liquidation of the Bank of Aizkraukle. The intention was to eliminate it, not to run in self-flow and self-disposal, but had already broken down around 400 million. I forgot that, in the case of Parex banka, the money that went into separate pockets was at least 350 million. We can continue to list - from A to Z. We can talk about the purchase of ambulances, which are criminal in nature, when vans were taken, converted into emergency, and now patients have to suffer and search in these cars. We can talk about the health system, that the first one that was created and tried to establish... 11 million were spent, where... we requested, written in 2010, 2011. Some eight more have been wasted on the current system. Next, another eight million... We can talk about road repairs. What Mr. Valaiņš spoke about here a few days ago. We can talk pointlessly, we are allowed to do so. The key is that we do not make decisions and that normal people do not come to power, which can also put an end to this point. It will be done and everything will be done to prevent it from happening. We can't talk about independent mass media because they've already left school... Most of the media have already been trained, they have gone out such a school that they know what you can write about, what you can't, what you have to support, what you don't need to support. We can talk about the principles of good governance, but then look at the mirror that goes on... We can form a group of suspects and judges. We have allowed a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which allows accused Members to perform their duties and use their position - apparently to influence these proceedings. We can consider it normal that government representatives can go to our strategic partners and fight to put someone on a blacklist that is absurd at all. That list, I said, is quite thorough. Do you really think that you will never have to answer that the historians will not say so? It's funny to see that in the Request Commission the only argument why you don't support one or the other request... there is no reasoned answer, but the main answer is 'to'. Why 'no'? Similarly, the votes in Parliament are absolutely the same. There is no argument why one or the other or the third proposal has been rejected by the Commission, the main thing is to vote against. And then who serves these mafiosing structures? Mostly served those who went to the Saeima elections with their eyes and said: we will fight corruption, we will fight crime. What are the results? The results are more than deplorable. No matter why politicians and everyone else think it is normal that they can unpunishedly insert the apparatus for listening to the Prosecutor General's house, no one is looking for it. This does not appear to be a threat to national security. No one knows what happened there, what the consequences are. The Prosecutor General, who did not bow, then became bad. Instead of looking at those investigators who investigated those things... and those who led their investigation would look at what was then wrong and the criminal was done... Why was “the sauna conversations” put in drawers? Why did Mr. Strelčenok become bad suddenly? For one reason only - he began to be interested in old things, about possible corruption in the government when orders were made for ambulances. Colleagues, do you really not get to watch that mirror... Especially those who shave their faces? Is it really pleasant to look at everything that happens? We can only live in a prosperous, green country if those in power think much about why they are... not just think of one thing: how to stick your pockets. We can think that a minister with a parliamentary secretary next day... When a person accused of serious crimes is released from custody, they meet him. What are we talking about? Isn't it state-run crime? Are they simply not the structures of the mafia that have pervaded absolutely everything? Now we're going to get the vaccination office out of here, but that's again... It's not gonna disappear anywhere. We can go as far as we want, but nothing will change. Because those who have placed orders at all these questionable transactions, both for mask purchases and for vaccination... one against the other... they're not going to be affected, they're all staying in their places. We can also mention this: recently we adopted a communication on Mr Navalny... Please bring me together the two times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U39	Your times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U40	We recently adopted a statement relating to Mr Navalya. But maybe Members should have looked at a little bit of history when, in Russia, a governor who was employed by Mr. Navalny was judged, and this governor had some agreement with one of our banks where he was employed by the ministers at that time... Prime Minister's son, for money laundering, which could go through Latvia... but as zig-presidents, the leaders were elected there... no one other than the former NATO Secretary-General, Head of Service of Germany. And so everything is normal there. Colleagues, don't stay funny? I am often ashamed to be asked questions by my fellow professionals about the situation in which we have come. I do not hope that we can expect any reasonable action from this government. Talking about what Mr. Carney... on the restriction of goods, experts have also said at the commission meeting long ago that it was a short-term period, but the government needs to shock people. That is the main reason. It is very difficult for people to make good decisions because of the need for a brain that seems to be a problem in our government. Colleagues! However, I invite you to consider where you are, what you are doing and how you work. Look around you! All those fakes that were before... in the vicinity of governments, which were in the vicinity of municipalities, have not disappeared anywhere; they are the ones who dictate rules, how to play politicians, but politicians lack the mind to understand that they are being manipulated. They are happy that they have taken on one beak or another, and then big as such as the ass, how beautiful they look, their singing is a problem. I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U41	We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U42	Thank you. Dear colleagues, With regard to the request itself, it must be said that there is no doubt that the voting machine that has been transformed into coalition Members will reject this request, but the issue that has been formulated there on the merits of government decisions was, is and will remain relevant until the end of the pandemic. Many examples have already been given of past decisions. Today we are discussing, let us say, internal and external restrictions, their proportionality and usefulness. As you remember, today it was also about opening the border yesterday for contacts with third countries. I would just like to say one thing: yesterday, while speaking to the European Commission, the President of the Commission, Urzula von der Leien, drew attention to a number of things, and one of them is that the pandemic is growing in Europe, that a third wave has taken place in the pandemic; that they think that contacts with third countries should be restricted in order not to spread a pandemic; that the virus coming from... is particularly dangerous. the virus strain coming from Great Britain. And yesterday we opened the border, and the first plane went right from Britain! Where is that justified in our decisions? Well, the opposition is criticising the government, it is the duty of the opposition, but in this case it is also the highest leader. Why do we ignore them? By the way, it was not only about this; it was also about the fact that in a number of European countries, including a very close country in Poland, it was about to introduce a full pilotage, full quarantine throughout the country from the end of March to mid-April. We do something quite different, something specific, specific. You can't understand why this is happening. That is why these questions arose not only to Members, but also to the public - to people living in Latvia, as well as to people who are in contact with Latvia. They ask, What's going on with you? What are the decisions that have been made here? What are the reasons for the decision, and what are the arguments for or against it? To be honest, it is not about whether it is a position or an opposition; it is about survival: the survival of the people, the survival of Europe. And in this process, I think, however, there should be less thought of who the view is more attractive, but more about efficiency and efficiency. I therefore call for this request to be supported. Once again, I say that demand will be up to the end of the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U43	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U44	Dear colleagues, We really are trying to knock down on the decision-makers, no matter how strange it may sound, because, by its very nature, society already sees us as decision-makers, even though we have not been in such a position for almost a year. We are simply ratifying these nightmares of the Cabinet of Ministers. And if we are talking about what is the reason why there is still no justification, no matter how perhaps some colleagues from the coalition argue, then I would like to set a small example for you at the moment. As you remember, the greatest indignation was caused by the fact that on 30 November the Cabinet decided to launch this entertainment event - it began to ban various goods and prohibited already so much that even the window fluid in the filling stations and the e-ticket were banned. After a day, this error was corrected, but... Well, it's not very much helping the situation. That is why we responded immediately to Members' questions. This is, unfortunately, the only thing we can do quickly in this situation. We asked Mr. Kariņš what studies have been carried out to impose bans on holidays and holidays (at that time it was only on holidays and holidays, now it is even more fun for us) to buy certain groups of goods, such as flowers, household goods, car parts, and how this affects the spread of Covid-19; what studies have been carried out to determine the supply of all other services (a beauty salon, car workshops, restaurants... ) full suspension on holidays and holidays and how such prohibitions affect the prevalence of Covid-19. I would remind you that it was still in those good times when everything was banned only on holiday. Has an estimate been made of possible losses to the state budget from the implementation of such prohibitions? Name the person responsible for drawing up such proposals at the Cabinet of Ministers. This question was asked on 3 December, I would remind you, and the answer was received 19. ... 9 December. The answer was prepared for us, your miracle, the Ministry of Education and Science. And the Ministry of Education and Science... I don't know why we got the answer from the Ministry of Education and Science, but as it is, it's... I'm reading to you... The Ministry replied: "The Covid-19 world knows less than a year, so there is not enough scientific evidence to limit this infection in society. In view of this, the countries, when introducing precautionary and safety measures, are guided by the experience of other countries, as well as the responsible authorities of Latvia. Similar restrictions on trade in goods and services to reduce the flow of people at point of sale and at point of supply are imposed in other countries, such as Belgium, Austria, Italy, Ireland and Slovenia, and, according to an analysis of the situation, there is a steady drop in morbidity rates in these countries over two weeks. This shows that such measures, together with other precautionary and safety measures, have produced results and that therefore Latvia has taken the example of good practice in these countries." So we look at our neighbors... Looks like the neighbors are all right, let's go! It was 30 November. And then we look at the rates of disease. We are looking at this table, which from November 30... week 30 November-6. December was 8,64 percent of the sick, and it is likely that two weeks later there would be a drop in numbers. Next week: 7 December-13. December 7,77 percent - as if there's a drop, but this drop is not a ban. As we know, we have two weeks to look at. And then we look at a two-week period after these bans enter into force. 14 December-20. December 9.11 per cent. And then. Next week - 10.68 percent, next week - 11.78 percent. Weeks go, numbers are growing, but the government doesn't even think... they are not even trying to do something for the thing, they are even more beginning to ban, as you know. More! We don't even ban spaghetti, we ban plastilin, we ban everything! And nothing helps. That proves... This concrete example shows that the government has now collected pests that absolutely do not think about how we can bring our economies to the end, how to help people. They don't think about it at all, if the Ministry of Education and Science already answers economic questions with a subscription that we're just looking... over the fence and what we have caught from our neighbours, we are also introducing here, just the worst, of course, as always. What, then, can be discussed at all? What reasonable decisions can be taken here at all? Colleagues, I call for this request to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U45	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U46	Dear colleagues, I agree with a colleague who said that it really is not so important today - whether you will support or support it. Of course, you will not support this particular request because... Ladies and gentlemen, you are questioning every day the validity of the decisions made by your government. You do this even in public - in social networks. Do you really think no one can see that? Does society see this? Even government ministers public... first make some decisions together in government, then write on social networks, when they leave this virtual government sitting, what stupid decisions, what unwarranted decisions they have made and that they disagree with all this. The government ministers give interviews in newspapers, public media, openly expressing their opinion that their government colleagues... that the government together, when making its decisions, does not see their contextal, big picture. That is why you yourself, fellow Members, I think you very well understand that what is happening - that is absolutely not what it should be. I'll give you a very simple example... One example of what the government is doing, which is known to listen to experts. Three weeks ago one of our major epidemiology experts told the general public that in two to three weeks' time, we would have the third wave that we needed almost a second purchase of toilet paper, Greeks and so on. Three weeks later, we... According to these forecasts, we should already be in the middle of the third wave. And yesterday we are again publicly told by one of our country's main epidemiologists that the number of co-infecteds per day could drop to 200 to 100 thousand in mid-April. It was yesterday... In yesterday's news. Today another of our epidemiology experts announces: no, we need to strengthen the restrictions, because now, now, now... red lights burn, immediately something will begin, already for two consecutive days go up these statistics. Today's the third day, statistics are no longer going up, but about it now everyone is silent. Think, please, of the impression it has on the society that has to listen to all those conflicting statements. And it is not only in the last two or three weeks, we are now talking about the last months. Do you think people... You remember the children's book about the guy and the wolf... if you're so... one day you wolf is, the next is not, after a few days is again... Do you think it increases public confidence in what you say, what the government says, what the legislator says? You think people are going to start this at all... will take seriously anything that comes from the government and from the Saeima? I call on you to really think about what young children already teach - that words have to be reconciled with deeds. This is very serious - whether what we are saying is followed by works or not. And the worst thing that can happen is that society no longer takes seriously... take nothing from the government and the Saeima. Then it is very close to a total collapse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U47	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U48	Honorary Head of the sitting! Colleagues! I would like to say that, in my opinion, Mr Dombrovskis's reflections on how many people are shocked... and their trust in the government... There are already quite widely available indicators that show that confidence in this government is not, at all, to what extent it should be, at a time of crisis, when the government should demonstrate true leadership - so that society follows their decisions, everyone has an understanding of their legitimacy, the necessity and belief that everything is right. But now... The chaotic motifs are still on-going and can only join what has been said in this debate today. But there's a big deal. In my opinion, the Saeima Members... The Parliaments must take responsibility and provide the public with answers on how these decisions have been taken during the Covid-19. It is necessary to analyse the impact of these decisions on both the pandemic, the reduction of the spread of this infection, and on the economy, as well as to look at the consequences of the lack of action by one or other politicians and the government's joint failure to act in certain situations requiring more active action, such as this purchase of vaccines. And I don't see any other way to do it, as it is... if no request for opposition is met... Various draft decisions were submitted with calls for various types of investigations, it was proposed to hand over the prosecutor's office to investigate the Ministry of Health... The Ministry of Health twice proved that it cannot be entrusted with investigating itself. And in the end, no conclusion, no fault we have. We have one political minister who I think... In my opinion, not only was this minister, but the government as a whole was responsible for this, especially the head of government. I believe that if the head of government sees and does not understand what is happening in his government and continues to tell us today that he is looking for something and cannot find something, this is exactly an indication that the head of government is in the wrong place at the wrong time. I believe that the only right way forward is how we can resolve this and get the real answers on the substance, and to find the public the clarity that has been done, what has not been done, what has been the impact of the decisions made on the reduction of infection or, on the contrary, on the spread of these deaths... Ten people die a day, the government tries to do everything possible to make people accept it. I personally cannot accept that we have such tragic statistics. Every day about ten people die, and everyone thinks they're okay. In Latvia, the vaccination process has been halted, because other countries have stopped, with AstraZeneca... There are also quite simply other alternatives. We are sitting here - the only ones who have the only vaccine and, in essence, it is also very small. Colleagues, in my opinion, must be answerable and not only the officials must be answerable; politicians must also be answerable. I believe that the only meaningful and right action for this Saeima would be to organise a parliamentary committee of inquiry, to agree on issues to be investigated, on the frame, and to carry out such an analysis under Parliament's responsibility - in full responsibility - because of the normal parliamentary procedure, of Members' questions, of various draft decisions, of all the things that we have tried to do throughout this period... We can only see such a evasion of responsibility. And we ask different things, we ask the prosecutor's office to investigate... That night night... The Ministry of Health declares that it will investigate itself. He'll be investigating once, he'll be investigating again - he'll be investigating again... then shows that they have zero risk management... conclude a contract with a company which is unable to dispose of a few thousand vaccines. Well, colleagues, that must stop at one point! And everyone, including members of the government, must understand that Parliament can also carry this analysis, take this monitoring into its own hands, and that will be through the parliamentary commission. And I will call on my colleagues to support its creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U49	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U50	Can I hear you? You can. Colleagues! Those who follow the work of the Saeima: a request for the purchase of these vaccines, an inquiry of this service on the agenda today; who is interested, follow along, there will be interesting discoveries, interesting facts. At the beginning of the debate, I turned to my coalition colleagues, to the government, to Prime Minister Krišjānis Kariņa, calling for my claim to be rebutted that this government has decided stupidly, irresponsiblely and without proper understanding. As I understand it, no one has applied. This means that to disprove my claims to prove that I have not been right... So, as I understand it, all Members agree with this; there is no one who would be willing to speak against it. I understand that there will also be support for this vote, because otherwise... if you're today... Now you do not support this vote, then you are simply trying to conceal the truth that this government is irresponsible, I apologise, stupid and decide without reason what it should decide on. So to help this government, I will say a few things that can be useful to it. First. In principle, you have to understand that with this crisis... You will not be able to control these risks from which you try to get involved. So we need to learn to lead them. This is the principle difference between young and susceptible people. Do what you are entitled to. You always try to get out of these risks. Sensitive people are trying to manage risks. You must believe that all around you is not just the little ones and the evil ones like you. There are also susceptible people, responsible people. Give them the chance to manage these risks! That is, if we look at these trade restrictions, there is another important thing to see (from the series “Children, learn physics!” ), you need to understand that people are not elementary particles that can be anichilated. Also in respect of people works - similar to physics, chemistry works! - the law of substance immortality: if you want to extort people from one place so that they may not be there, then they will appear in another place. What would be important would really be important for us to encourage society to be as fresh as possible by nature. But think about how people can do that. One of the things that would be worth thinking about in this regard is that, given that spring is approaching, rural works are also approaching - to think about giving farm shops the opportunity to work, to make it possible for society to buy the necessary goods so that they can prepare for these rural works. The other thing to think about is public catering. Allow at least catering out, to nature! And really think about some kind of safety protocol, as could be done in the indoors - with the appropriate air quality and other parameters. Why is this important? So if you want people... And now I've been telling you what I've been through since the weekends of several weeks watching people's actions... Going to nature and if you want them to stay longer there, then they need a chance to eat. This is what you should ensure - that, say, in such outdoor cafes people can normally eat... and outdoor terraces or near a fire. In this way, you would achieve a reduction in human concentration. In addition, it would make it possible for people to live a healthy lifestyle, increase their immunity, and reduce their vulnerability to this risk. It's a very simple thing. I would therefore ask you to think systemically, to try to see that you cannot simply - if you impose bans in some place, there will be no people automatically there. Somehow I have seen an example of Rimi. You've put this limit on the number of people on the area, and what's going on? People just shout, wait in line at the entrance. After that... What happens when they're in the store? You see where they are - they already don't spread evenly across the entire area, they all then stuck at the “Rimi” cashiers, because “Rimi” also... To protect their business, they have put one seller on four checkups. And the result is that it makes sense what you've made there with these restrictions. Try to look realistic, systemicly at things, not like the little ones who fear big eyes! You can't even understand the real order of things. I call for this proposal to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U51	The name of Member Regina Lochmele. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U52	Hello! I am going to address the ruling coalition, not the opposition at the moment. You think you still have time before the elections, you have time to correct your image to convince the people, voters that you are good. I dare to say that you don't have time anymore, because the people's patience glass is full. Full of your foolish decisions, full of anger about the way in which they have to live in the shadow. We just had a terrible winter. It was cold. It was gray, sunless, and without hope, without hope that the government would turn out to be, that light would come at some point, people would think about the future of their people. At present, there is only one hope in the nation: on the sun, which will come naturally from spring and even more from summer, because this government, the Cabinet of Ministers, has no hope anymore. And to you, honourable Members of the ruling coalition, now the hope of getting to the Saeima in the next elections is only on one occasion: vote now on our request! Dropping this government, creating a group of people who can really lead this country and who could be responsible and people who think about the people! Vote for! Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U53	I closed the debate. Mr. Pugas, will you comment on behalf of the Commission? Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U54	No, on behalf of the Commission, I will not comment on anything, but just remind you that Members' request within the Commission was rejected.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U55	Please call me! We will vote for the Member Ivars Zariņa, Janis Krišāna, Valija Agešina, Arthur Rubika, Edgars Kucina, Jānis Tutina, Ivana Klementyeva, Boris Cileviča, Igora Pimenova, Regina Lochmele's request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš "On the validity of decisions made by your government to limit the spread of Covid-19 disease"! Please, let's vote! - 34, against - 52, abstaining - not. The request made by Members has been rejected. On the agenda - examination of draft laws. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U56	Colleagues! The draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions’ is related to the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Museums’. The draft law provides for a new legal status of a possible state museum - a derived public person - while maintaining the current regulation regarding the activities of the museum as an institution. The Commission for Education, Culture and Science did not receive any proposals for the third reading of the draft law. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I call on you to support the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U57	Please call me! We will vote for the third, final, reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on Cultural Institutions! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The law is passed. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums”, third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U58	Thank you. So let's keep going. The aim of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums” is to improve the governance of the state and municipal museums and to clarify the regulatory framework of the museum industry. The third reading received 42 proposals. 1. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for the exclusion of Article 1(5) of the Law, because the proposed rules are incorporated into Article 7.1 of the draft law, which defines the division of museums. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U59	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U60	2. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau clarifying the wording of Article 7.1 of the draft law in order to better take into account the forms of classification of museums according to their legal status. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U61	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U62	3. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is a editorial clarification. Partly supported by the Commission, included 18. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U63	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U64	4. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for the exclusion of Article 7.2 and to express it as Article 11.1 of the Law. It is a editorial correction to bring the structure of the law in order successively. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U65	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U66	5. - a legal bureau proposal, a editorial clarification which states that the provision applies to any founder of accredited museums. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U67	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U68	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The references to the wording of Section 7.1 of the Law are edited. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U69	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U70	7. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The norm of the fifth paragraph of Article 3 of the draft law shall be revised in order to determine the treatment of museums with museum stocks in cases where a state or municipal museum or an autonomous museum, the founder of which is a legal person of the state university or other public law, is abolished. Partly supported by the Commission, includes 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U71	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U72	8 / 8 - a proposal by the Commission for Education, Culture and Science laying down the procedure for the establishment, reorganisation and liquidation of public and private museums. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U73	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U74	9. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which is a editorial clarification. Partly supported by the Commission and included in 10. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U75	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U76	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. References to paragraphs of Article 7.1 shall be editorially clarified. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U77	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U78	Thank you. Proposal No 11...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U79	I'm sorry, Mr. Pugas. We have another statement. It's time for a break. We will continue to look at this draft law after a break. I give the floor to Member Juris Rancan for a statement. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U80	Good afternoon, colleagues! The meeting of the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption will be ready and sent to all members of the Commission for whatsApp group and e-mail. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U81	Thank you. So we're going on a break. Registration of Members' presence. Quorum has been established. Let's get back to work at 3 p.m. ( Interruption)
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U82	Dear colleagues, We will continue with the third remote emergency session on 11 March this year. On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums”. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science - Member Ivars Puga.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U83	Colleagues, we continue to see the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums” at third reading. We stayed at 11. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is encouraged to add a new paragraph to Article 10 of the Act, stating that museums are not subject to restrictions on the admission of donations in so far as they relate to the main functions of the museum, to the addition of the museum’s stock. The proposal has been supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U84	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U85	12. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau containing editorial clarifications. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U86	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U87	13. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. The draft law is supplemented by a norm establishing that the director and manager of a municipal museum association is recruited by the founder of the association. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U88	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U89	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides for the exclusion of Section 11 (3) of the Law, as this provision has already been included in Section 11 (2). Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U90	Members are also in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U91	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal by the Minister of Culture, Nauras Puntulis, specifying the duties of the Director of the Museum. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U92	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U93	16. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is encouraged to supplement Article 11 of the Law with a fifth part, which determines the activities of the museum and the performance of functions of the museum - that the Board of the Society is responsible for the activities of the museum and the performance of functions of the museum. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U94	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U95	17. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It calls for the exclusion of Article 7 of the draft law, as the rules on the duties of the museum director are included in the fourth paragraph of Article 11. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U96	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U97	18. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which organises the structure of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U98	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U99	19. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau clarifying editorially the references to the wording of Article 7.1 of the Law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U100	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U101	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative clarification. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U102	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U103	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. The fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the draft law is foreseen to be excluded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U104	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U105	22. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Editative clarification according to the terminology used by law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U106	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U107	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the wording in order to determine in which cases the object of the museum may be transferred to another responsible institution. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U108	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U109	24. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. It sets out in which cases a rule on the return of an object to the lawful owner is applied. Partly supported by the Commission, included 25. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U110	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U111	25. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which provides that the removal of an item from the National Stock may only take place on the basis of a court ruling on the designation of a new owner. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U112	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U113	26. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau which encourages the exclusion of the seventh paragraph of Article 8 of the draft law, while maintaining the existing provision of the law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U114	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U115	27. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There is a editorial clarification. The Commission has partially supported and included 28. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U116	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U117	28. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It clarifies the wording of the first and second paragraphs of Article 9 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U118	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U119	29. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. There is a editorial clarification. It is partly supported and included in 30. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U120	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U121	30. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science specifying, in accordance with the legal form of the museum, the decision-making body. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U122	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U123	31. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. The wording of Article 10(1.6) of the draft law shall be supplemented by the word ‘engineering communications’. The proposal has been partly supported and included in 32. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U124	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U125	32. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Including 31 clarifications of the proposal, Article 10(1.6) of the draft law is reworded. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U126	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U127	33. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture Nauras Puntulis, which clarifies the norm by stating that museums established by local governments... in accordance with the procedure laid down in the law, municipalities participate in the provision of museum functions with funding from the municipal budget. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U128	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U129	34. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Naura Puntulis. Article 10.1.2(5) of the draft law provides for the addition of the word ‘engineering communications’. The Commission has partially supported and included 35. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U130	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U131	35. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Includes clarification of proposal 34. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U132	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U133	36. - the proposal of the Legal Bureau of the Saeima, which clarifies the wording of the third paragraph of Article 10 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U134	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U135	37. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. It is planned to supplement Article 11 of the draft law with a provision that state museums - derived public persons - may transfer the property to perform its functions by entering the property in the land register as the property of the respective state museum - derived public persons. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U136	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U137	38. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau specifying the transitional provisions. Partly supported by the Commission, included 39. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U138	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U139	39. - the proposal of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, which specifies that the director of a museum who entered the office before the entry into force of amendments to this Law shall continue to perform his duties for a period of five years from the date of entry into force of amendments to the law. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U140	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U141	40. - the proposal of the Minister of Culture, Nauras Puntulis, supplementing the transitional provision by providing that the directors of the national museums may re-appoint their office after the end of their term of office. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U142	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U143	41. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau providing for paragraph 8 of the transitional provisions of the draft law to be expressed as the fourth paragraph of Article 8 of the law, as it is to be defined as an independent provision. In the Commission, the proposal is supported and included 8. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U144	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U145	And 42. - a proposal from the Commission for Education, Culture and Science. Has been associated with 41. - the proposal of the Legal Bureau and provide for the exclusion from Article 12 of the draft law of point 8 of the transitional provisions, the provision of which is included in Article 8 of the law. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U146	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U147	We have therefore examined all the proposals made for the third reading. On behalf of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science, I call for support for the draft law at third, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U148	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Museums” in the third, final, reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, The draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Social Services and Social Assistance" is on the agenda. I would remind you that this bill has already been examined by the Saeima in the fifth remote emergency session on 11 March this year. Thus the transition to the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U149	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! This time positive. The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission examined amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees aimed at introducing a so-called simplified tax solution so that those carrying out economic activities and opting for such a regime can work in such a way that all the revenues from the economic account and associated with economic activities... and also from this account carries out all the expenses, costs... Then, in this account, the bank automatically calculates the tax due, informs the State Revenue Service thereof. So all tax payments like this, automatically, are accompanied... I would remind you that, at the adoption of the budget last November, we debated quite a great deal about this, and the Ministry of Finance's initial plan was to introduce this solution in only about two years' time. So... Since it has already appeared to us today, much faster than in two years, we can say: Latvia can! This is, of course, a very positive example. We can very much welcome, especially positive note the huge work done by the Ministry of Finance and the Latvian Financial Industry Association on this solution. I can also announce that one of the Latvian commercial banks is ready to offer this solution in an experiment. These amendments were discussed and unanimously supported by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I therefore call on you to support them.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U150	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Taxes and Fees” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U151	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 April. No, it's not a joke.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U152	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for submitting proposals is 1 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Act”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U153	Dear colleagues, This draft law is also part of a common package of draft laws aimed at introducing the simplified tax solution that I mentioned above. Amendments to the Law on Microbusiness Tax are necessary in order to allow micro-enterprises owners to choose to pay taxes in such a way by using this solution. The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission unanimously supported this draft law. That is why I call on you to support it.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U154	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Microbusiness Tax Law”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U155	The same deadline is two weeks, 1 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U156	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 1 April this year. And the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Tax on Financial Stability”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U157	Dear colleagues, This is another draft law from this common package to introduce a simplified tax solution. These amendments are necessary. So... Whereas commercial banks that have agreed or that will agree to introduce and offer customers this simplified tax solution will have information to adapt their IT systems to that effect... Since these costs are estimated to be up to EUR 50 000, the aim of these amendments is to create this one-off compensatory instrument by reducing the amount of the financial stability levy... up to 50,000 euros. These amendments were discussed and unanimously supported by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission. I therefore call on you to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U158	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Financial Stability Fees! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U159	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U160	So the deadline for proposals is 1 April this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Commission on Budget and Finance (Tax) - Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U161	Dear colleagues, This draft law is the last of the overall package with the same objective. These specific amendments are designed to create a technical solution for a possible situation, for a scenario with a legal entity whose operation has ceased... of which - eliminated... the simplified procedure and what to do with the funds remaining in the accounts of credit institutions. This draft law imposes an obligation on credit institutions... provides for an obligation for them to provide the State Revenue Service with information on the balances of the funds of the said legal persons. Within the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, the draft law has been examined and unanimously supported. I therefore call on you, too, to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U162	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U163	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be 1 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U164	Thank you. So, for this draft law, the deadline for the submission of proposals is 1 April this year. Draft law on the accession of the Department of Defence of the United States of America to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the United and the United Kingdom of Great and the Ministry of Northern Ireland, and the Chief of Defence of the Supreme and the Supreme Government of the Supreme Command of Technology. Member of the Commission on Foreign Affairs Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U165	Thank you to the Speaker of the Saeima for calling a full name. So we work with Law No. 929/Lp13. The essence of this proposal is that the United States will join the NATO Strategic Communication Centre of Excellence in Latvia. The Foreign Affairs Commission has examined the draft law at first reading and calls on the Saeima to support it at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U166	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the accession of the Department of Defence of the United States of America to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Italy, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation on Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland, and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great and the United States of Northern Republic of Lithuania at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 79, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U167	The deadline for submitting proposals is 10 days, it meets 28 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U168	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 28 March this year. On the agenda - draft law on the accession of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well as the headquarters of the Supreme Assembly Transformation Command of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Kingdom of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of National Defence of the Republic of Poland of the Republic of Poland, the Republic of Lithuania, and the United and the United Kingdom of Defence of Northern Britain. On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Member Krista Baumane.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U169	Dear Chairman of the Saeima. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We work with document number 930/Lp13. This draft law provides for Denmark's accession to the NATO Centre of Excellence for Strategic Communication. The Centre's activities are determined by two Memorandums of Understanding - a Memorandum on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre, as well as a Memorandum on its functional relations. These Memoranda were approved by the Saeima on 14 July 2014. The memorandum provides for the possibility for the Centre to join new members, both new members and all existing accession statements, which must be agreed by all participants before signing. The law provides for the accession of the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs - with declarations of accession - to both Memoranda of Understanding. The accession statements were agreed with all the existing members of the Centre and the headquarters of the Supreme Grand Command Transformation Commander of NATO. They have accordingly been signed: the declaration of accession to the Memorandum, the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre on 5 October 2020 and the statement of functional relations on 16 October 2020. The law needs to be approved by the Saeima in order to gain the legal force of the Danish Accession Centre and become a full member of the Centre. The draft law within the Foreign Affairs Commission is supported. Please support the draft law at first reading by the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U170	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. We will vote on the draft law at first reading. Please call me! We will vote on draft law on the accession of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark to the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Slovak Republic and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation for Strategic Communications and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the National Defence Department of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Estonia, the Ministry of Defence of the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Republic of Lithuania, the Ministry of National Defence of Defence of the Republic of Poland, and the Ministry of Defence of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of Defence of the United States of the Republic of Lithuania at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U171	The deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading is 10 days, i.e. 28 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U172	Thank you. So the deadline for submitting proposals is 28 March this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy, Member Krišjānis Feldmans.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U173	Hello, dear colleagues! Dear Chairman of the Saeima. The Commission for Economic, Agricultural, Environmental and Regional Policy has examined and prepared for second reading the draft law “Amendment to the Law on Consumer Protection”. This draft law, I remind you, provides for the approximation of the norms of the Consumer Rights Protection Law related to other draft laws and is about implementation of the covered bond institution in Latvia. The draft law was in fact in error and therefore no proposal was received. Hence, there is nothing left to ask the Saeima, on behalf of my commission, to support the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U174	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law on consumer protection law! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U175	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading is 29 March this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U176	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 29 March this year. Draft law “Amendments to law on the prevention of conflict of interest in the activities of public officials”, first reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission – Member Karina Sprūde.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U177	Dear colleagues, The Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Activities of Public Officials’ (No. 918/Lp13) and decided to support this draft law, and consequently (not to be heard) ... The draft law has been drafted at the initiative of the Corruption Prevention and Combating Bureau in order to comply with the recommendation of GRECO’s fifth evaluation round report on Latvia. All political officials of the central government, with the exception of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers and the parliamentary secretaries, shall be authorised to perform other work (combining positions). Section 4(1)(5) of the Law provides that the Adviser to the President, the Head of the Prime Minister, a Member of the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Head of the Bureau of the Minister for Special Duty, the Adviser, the Consultant and the Assistant to the President shall be State officials. The case-law has recognised that public officials assume increased public law liability in relation to their status, in which, unlike the fundamental principle of private law, there is a fundamental principle of public law: everything that is not permitted is prohibited. At the same time, it is clear from the legal framework that the provision of this information depends only on the integrity of the political officer. GRECO experts also expressed concerns about the fact that political officials can combine civil servants' responsibilities with paid... the execution of civil company contracts for the benefit of third parties and lack of legal basis for the disclosure of ad hoc conflicts of interest by political officials. The aim of the legal framework envisaged by the draft law is to introduce a functional mechanism to oblige political officials to request permission to combine the position of state official with another position, thus preventing possible conflicts of interest and introducing greater transparency in the activities of political officials, as well as to prevent violations of ethical norms or damage to the performance of direct duties. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U178	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Prevention of Conflict of Interest in Activities of Public Officials”! Please, let's vote! No, 87, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U179	The deadline for submitting proposals shall be two weeks - 1 April of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U180	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 1 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U181	Very honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. High honourable Members! We work with Law No. 910/Lp13 ‘Amendments to the Law on Personal Documents’. In its meeting of 3 March, the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government examined the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, which was drafted by the Ministry of the Interior and the Department of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, and the essence of which is related to the mandatory use of identity cards. Currently, the law provides that with effect from 1 January 2023, an identity card is a mandatory identity document for any citizen of Latvia and non-citizen, but at the same time it is stipulated that until 31 December 2030, the said norm does not apply to persons who have provided information about their place of residence abroad in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Residents' Register. On 17 July last year, when examining “A Plan for Working with the Diaspora 2021-2023” at the Diaspora Advisory Council, the initiative to draft amendments to this Law was supported by establishing a shorter transitional period from which a personal certificate is established as a mandatory identity document also for those persons who have provided information about their place of residence abroad in accordance with the procedure laid down by the Residents’ Register Law. The aim of this initiative is to ensure that persons who are Latvian citizens and non-citizens but live abroad have access to the electronic services provided by the State, taking into account the fact that more and more public services are only available with increased security... qualified... an advanced security electronic identification tool that... Latvia has established one, and it is an e-ID card or identity card. The draft law was approved by the Commission at first reading. Please support me.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U182	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Documents for Persons”! Please, let's vote! There's no one for - 86, against -1, abstaining. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U183	The deadline for submitting proposals is two weeks, i.e. 1 April 2021.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U184	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 1 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law”, second reading. On behalf of the National Administration and Municipal Commission - Member Viktors Valainis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U185	Very respectful Speaker of the Saeima! We work with the draft law “Amendments to the Saeima Election Law” (No. 904/Lp13). In essence, these are technical amendments originally tabled on the basis of the administrative adoption of the draft territorial reform law. This is the law relating to it. No proposals were received for the second reading. I call for support at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U186	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on Amendments to the Saeima Election Law at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 85, it's against and abstains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U187	In the Commission, we decided that the deadline was five days. That would be 23 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U188	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 23 March this year. Draft Act Amending the Law on Credit Institutions, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U189	Hello, colleagues! The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’. This draft law is also related to the next draft law, and it concerns aspects such as... These are the technical aspects that... two directives, Directives at European level dealing with the aspects of financial holding companies, remuneration policies, capital conservation measures, the calculation of reserves for financial institutions, and so on. These are the very technical amendments. So I'm calling... Yes, due to the fact that those Directives had to be adopted by 28 December 2020, the Commission has identified and asked the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U190	Members do not want to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! No. -69, no. -13, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U191	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U192	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! No, 81, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U193	The proposals are due to expire on 15 April this year. The second reading of the Saeima - 29 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U194	Thank you. Deadline for proposals - 15 April this year, consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - 29 April this year. Draft law: Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments, first reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U195	Thank you. These amendments to the Market in Financial Instruments Act are related to the previous and define aspects such as the definition of outsourcing in banking relations, the definition of a banking group, the definition of Tier 1 capital, the global definition of systemically important banks, and so on. This is also a story of the transposition of two directives. Latvia is late with the transposition of the Directives, so in this case too... The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has asked for urgency to be established for this draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U196	Members have not applied for urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law "Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please, let's vote! For - 65, for - 14, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U197	On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U198	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote for the first reading draft law on Amendments to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U199	The deadline for proposals is 15 February this year. The second reading of the Saeima - 29 April this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U200	Well, I guess April 15 was meant, huh?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U201	Yeah.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U202	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for proposals - 15 April this year, consideration at the Saeima sitting - 29 April this year. Draft law “Amendments to the Law on Service Pensions of Judges”, second reading. On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs - Member Normunds Gunna.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U203	Hello, colleagues! The Commission for Social and Labour Affairs has supported the examination of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions” at second reading. Six proposals were received for the second reading. 1. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It was partly supported and included in the Commission2. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U204	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U205	2. - the proposal of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, which provides that the procedure for calculating the length of service for the post of the Prosecutor General shall be determined by the same procedure as that of the judge and the Ombudsman. The proposal is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U206	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U207	3. - a proposal from the Minister of Justice, Mr. John Bordan. It provides that if a judge has been in office for 30 years, he is entitled to a service... special pension. In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U208	Let us start a debate. Name to Member Juris Jušas.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U209	Hello, colleagues! Dear President, If necessary, please bring my debates together.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U210	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U211	Colleagues! As regards the judiciary and judges, most of the Members present generally mention and call for the independence of the courts and judges. Now, with the vote on this proposal, we will all have the opportunity to demonstrate that our words are in line with our actions. So what is the nature of this proposal? That is - to grant a judge the right to go to retirement pension if he has been in the position of a judge for at least 30 years. It is important to recall that only 30 years of age or older can become a judge. Even if we assume that a person becomes a judge immediately after reaching the age of 30, in any event, the judge will be able to exercise his right to a retirement pension under this proposal no earlier than... at 60 years of age. If we look at the figures, then we see that there are currently only about 20 judges who this year, in 2021, have a period in office of a judge of 30 years or more, and who could therefore benefit from this advantage – to receive a retirement pension a little faster than the regulatory framework sets. I would like to emphasise in particular that this regulation provides for the right of a judge to choose – to go to retirement pension or to continue his duties. By its very nature, the judge’s retirement pension is not a retirement pension, but a special pension. Its necessity is derived from the principle of the independence of the judiciary. And its aim is not to compensate for the loss of capacity for work by way of a specific occupation, but to provide the necessary social security after leaving the judge. Consequently, the extension of the classical principles of the service pension system to the service pension of a judge is, in substance, erroneous and even creates an anti-constitutional situation. The service pension of a judge is not only social security; its essence is also the guarantee of the independence and inability of a judge, thus guaranteeing his right to adequate material security upon leaving his post. The independence of judges is also a fundamental principle enshrined in the Constitution. The fact that judges have financial security after leaving office also serves as a guarantee for proper administration of justice and gives rise to high demands of the judge, as well as to maintaining trust in his competence, independence and justice. Also, financial security, at the end of the duties of a judge, significantly reduces potential risks of corruption in the work of a judge. When assessing the regulatory framework of other Member States of the European Union regarding social security of judges after leaving the office of a judge, it should be concluded that in most countries there are special conditions determining social security of judges after leaving the office of a judge, thus guaranteeing independence of judges. The proposal also does not contradict the recommendations of the State Audit Office regarding issues of retirement pension system. In particular, the State Audit Office has stressed that before a thorough review of the retirement pension system it is not possible to extend the range of retirement pension beneficiaries. That can be fully agreed. But, I have to say, this proposal does not increase the range of service pension beneficiaries, entities, as judges are already service pension recipients. The question is only about the period of time - when the right to a retirement pension arises. The criticism of the State Audit Office was about the time when a person is entitled to a retirement pension, namely that it is very... fast - when a person is still in work age. It should be noted that a judge has the right to a retirement pension only after he has left the office of a judge, i.e. he cannot continue to work. Thus, the conclusions of the State Audit Office are clear, and this proposal does not contradict the findings of the State Audit Office. I would like to draw my colleagues' attention to the fact that the proposal has been drawn up in the light of the decision of the Council for the Judiciary of 9 March 2020, which invited the Ministry of Justice to direct this amendment in Article 2 of the Law on Judicial Service Pensions. In the committee responsible, the Council for the Judiciary and the Latvian Judicial Association expressed their full support for this proposal. Colleagues, I call for support for this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U212	Name to Member Gundars Many.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U213	Hello, colleagues! I am truly glad that this proposal was defended by a person involved in criminal proceedings who currently runs the Legal Commission of the Saeima. And so I have such real concerns that it is a real interest to be able to judge in some way in my own good because... Because... We already know that there is an unprecedented case in this Saeima that there are three Members who have been prosecuted and prosecuted, but they are still in office anyway. That is why I would ask for support for the Commission's opinion at the moment, not what Member Jurash said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U214	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U215	Dear colleagues, Maybe, though... whatever the biography and operational history of each individual Member who reports and calls for support for this proposal... However, I would ask you to listen - no matter who said it. Yeah, because... Speaking of Mr. Juša... However, listen to those arguments that the Council for the Judiciary has led this proposal and judges also need this proposal. I understand that, perhaps, there has been some peel in the Social and Labour Commission and this vote has gone wrong, but... In essence, this proposal is not intended to make any particular contribution to a judge, but... I am referring to social responsibility for specific professions. I think we can support this proposal. However, I call for a vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U216	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U217	I do not have anything to add on behalf of the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U218	So the commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U219	In the Commission, the proposal was not supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U220	Please call me! We will vote in favour of 3. - the proposal submitted by the Minister of Justice, Bordan! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 46, it's 31, it's not. The proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U221	4. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice, Jānis Bordāns, which sets the date from which the procedure for calculating the length of service shall take effect when leaving office. In the Commission, proposal 4 was partly supported and included 5. - on a proposal from the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U222	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U223	5. - a proposal from the committee responsible specifying the transitional provision... Article 2 of the draft law, adopted at first reading, provides that the procedure for calculating the length of service of persons shall apply to persons who have left the office of a judge or an Ombudsman after 1 July 2021. In the Commission, proposal 5 has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U224	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U225	6. - the proposal of the Minister of Justice Jānis Bordāns, which specifies the time when the law enters into force, stating that the law enters into force on 1 July 2021. In the Commission, the 6th proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U226	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U227	On behalf of the Commission for Social and Labour Affairs, I call for the draft law to be approved at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U228	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Judicial Service Pensions” at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 83, it's against - 1, it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U229	The deadline for the submission of proposals for third reading shall be 26 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U230	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 26 March this year. Draft law on covered bonds, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U231	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Segitized Bond Act’. It has to be said that these six draft laws, this one and those which are now going to follow, are completely linked and concern a very important subject... a very important topic for the banking sector. Covered bonds - this is an important and effective long-term financial instrument that allows credit institutions, banks to attract new financing by issuing bonds, bonds covered by... Well, mostly these are mortgage loans. In this case... It is even a project at the level of the Baltic States, which over three years has helped develop the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which determines that... with this regulation, which will be very similar in nature to the three Baltic States, will be able to apply... Let us say that these mortgage assets, for example, from Lithuania and Estonia's credit portfolios, will be able to be extended to an issuer based in Latvia. So this is a long-awaited measure. These proposals, which are here... It is 60, it is very much and they are all, let's say it, mainly editorial and technical, very technical, natural clarifications, so I will not do much to refer. 1. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. It is editorial in nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U232	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U233	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Partially supported, included 3. - the Commission's proposal.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U234	Members agree.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U235	3. - a proposal from the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission setting out the special administrator's rights in the covered bond management company. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U236	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U237	4. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also, it is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U238	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U239	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also, it is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U240	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U241	6. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also, it is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U242	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U243	7. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also, it is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U244	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U245	8 / 8 - The legal office's proposal defining the issuance of covered bond programmes... credit institutions that may issue these covered bonds. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U246	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U247	9. - A proposal from Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistova, which lays down sectoral additions... Article 3 of the draft law... with regard to the provisions of the Civil Law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U248	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U249	10............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U250	The Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U251	11. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Editative nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U252	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U253	12. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U254	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U255	13. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also, it is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U256	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U257	14............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also - of a more precise nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U258	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U259	15............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistova, defining the financial statements of the covered bond company. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U260	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U261	16. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also - of a more precise nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U262	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U263	17. - The proposal of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov, which defines Article 17 of the draft law... So... the disposal of cover assets. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U264	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U265	18. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U266	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U267	19. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. There is also a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U268	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U269	20............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also - of an interpretative nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U270	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U271	21............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - the proposal of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, which provides for the exclusion of Article 31 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U272	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U273	22. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U274	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U275	23............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also - clarifying nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U276	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U277	24. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Proposal of a precise nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U278	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U279	25. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U280	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U281	26. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U282	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U283	27. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U284	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U285	28. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U286	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U287	29. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also, it is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U288	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U289	30. - the proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov, relating to Article 43 of the draft law. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U290	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U291	31. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U292	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U293	32. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U294	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U295	33. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U296	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U297	34. - a proposal from the Legal Bureau, which shall specify the issuer... the issuer... Let's tell you how the risk profile assessment... The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U298	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U299	35. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U300	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U301	36. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also - of a more precise nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U302	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U303	37. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also - of a more precise nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U304	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U305	38. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U306	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U307	39. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U308	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U309	40. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U310	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U311	41. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U312	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U313	42. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U314	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U315	43. - The proposal of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov, which concerns the manager of the cover portfolio... Let's say, a definition. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U316	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U317	44. - a proposal by Mr Ata Zakatistov, Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, concerning the appointment of a special administrator. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U318	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U319	45. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also - of a more precise nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U320	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U321	46. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Also - of a more precise nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U322	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U323	47. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U324	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U325	48. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U326	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U327	49. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. There is a editorial nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U328	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U329	50. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U330	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U331	51. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U332	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U333	52. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U334	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U335	53. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U336	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U337	54. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U338	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U339	55. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U340	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U341	56. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U342	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U343	57. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Editative nature. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U344	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U345	58. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U346	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U347	59. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U348	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U349	And the final one is 60. - A proposal from the Legal Bureau. Also - of a more precise nature. The Commission is supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U350	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U351	I therefore call for support for the draft law on covered bonds at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U352	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on covered bonds at second reading! Please, let's vote! ( The sound is broken.) ... Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U353	The deadline for the second reading of the proposals is 29 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U354	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 29 March this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Tax on Financial Stability”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U355	The Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on Financial Stability Fees’ related to the previous draft law. No proposals were received. I call for support for the draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U356	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law on "Amendment to the Law on Financial Stability Fees" at second reading! Please, let's vote! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U357	The deadline for proposals for second reading is 29 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U358	So the deadline for proposals is 29 March this year. Draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U359	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions’. Six proposals have been received. 1. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The numbering of the following articles has been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U360	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U361	2. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission shall be supported by changing the numbering of the following articles accordingly.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U362	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U363	3. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The numbering of the following articles has also been supported.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U364	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U365	4. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. Supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U366	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U367	5. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. The Commission shall be supported by a corresponding change in the numbering of the following articles.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U368	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U369	6. - A proposal from the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Ata Zakatistov. It is also supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U370	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U371	I invite Members to support the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U372	Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on Amendments to the Law on Credit Institutions! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 80, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U373	The deadline for proposals for second reading is 29 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U374	Thank you. The deadline for proposals is 29 March this year. Draft Act ‘Amendment to the Credit Register Act’, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U375	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendment to the Credit Register Act’. Three proposals were received, but the Defence Commission... The Ministry of Defence withdrew these proposals and there is therefore no proposal. I invite you to support the draft law on the Credit Register Act at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U376	Thank you. So three proposals have been withdrawn. We will vote on the draft law at second reading. Please call me! We will vote for the second reading of the draft law on the Credit Register Act! Please, let's vote! Not by - 82, not by - and refrains. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the third reading of the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U377	The deadline for proposals shall be 29 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U378	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 29 March this year. Draft law “Amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Act”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U379	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law “Amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Act”, which is related to previous draft laws. One proposal has been received. This proposal comes from the Legal Office and is of a more precise nature. This is supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U380	Members are in favour.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U381	I invite you to support the draft law “Amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Act” at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U382	Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendment to the Deposit Guarantee Law” at second reading! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law was approved at second reading. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U383	The deadline for proposals shall be 29 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U384	Thank you. So the deadline for proposals is 29 March this year. And the draft law “Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments”, second reading. On behalf of the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, Member Gatis Eglitis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U385	The Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission has examined the draft law ‘Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments’. No proposal has been received for the second reading. I call for support for this draft law at second reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U386	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second reading of the draft law "Amendment to the Law on the Markets in Financial Instruments"! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 86, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at second reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U387	The deadline for proposals shall be 29 March of this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-18-PT13-2219-U388	Thank you. This draft law, too, is due to be submitted on 29 March this year. We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Questions have been put to Members. Members Zarins, Agešins, Tutins, Klementjevs and Nikonov have submitted the question “On Covid-19 Data Recording”, which we submit to the Minister of Health for response. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Sprūde, Gobzems and Kazinovskis have submitted the question “On the costs of the creation, layout, printing and delivery of the Vaccination Newspaper”, which we submit to the Minister of Health for response. Members Stepanenko, Švecova, Sprūde, Gobzem and Tavars have submitted the question “On teaching materials in the new educational content or School 2030”, which we submit to the Minister of Education and Science for reply. Honourable Members! I would like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received a letter from the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption... and information that the Commission has completed its work on the draft law “Amendments to the Covid–19 law on the management of the spread of infection” (No. 933/Lp13) and ask for an extraordinary sitting to be held today, March 18, this year. Dear colleagues, The Saeima Bureau will decide on this issue, which is to call a further extraordinary meeting for consideration of the draft law. There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. So the Saeima will continue to work in 30 minutes, which means at 18.00. I'm closing the sitting.
