ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U1	Hello, honourable Members! Let's start the first remote emergency sitting on June 8, this year. First of all, I call for a minute's silence to commemorate the memory of our fellow Member, Ms Inese Iksten. ( A moment of silence.) Thank you. Dear colleagues, Let's get started. On the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. Communication about Ramon Petravič 13. The renewal of the parliamentary term of office of a Member of the Saeima. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U2	According to (A sound defect.) ... My colleague's gonna turn off the loudspeak right away. Oh, just turn off, please! In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 5 of the parliamentary roll and the application made by Ramona Petravičs on 3 June 2021 to restore to her the mandate of a Member of the Saeima, which she had appointed for the period of office of Minister, the Saeima Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission declares that Ramona Petraviča is being renewed 13. The mandate of a Member of the Saeima. Consequently, 13. Member of the Saeima shall cease to perform the duties of Edgars Kronbergs, whose mandate was approved by the Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members of the KPV LV party are serving as ministers from the list of candidates for the KPV LV in the Kurzeme electoral district.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U3	Thank you. We have heard the announcement and thank Edgars Kronbergs for his work in the Latvian Parliament. Notice of Long Suplinsk 13. The renewal of the parliamentary term of office of a Member of the Saeima. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U4	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 5 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, and with the application of Ilga Šuplinska on 4 June 2021, the Board of the Saeima announced that the mandate of the Saeima Member she had placed for the period of office of the Minister, the Saeima’s Mandate, ethics and application would be renewed for Ilga Šuplinska 13. The mandate of a Member of the Saeima. Consequently, 13. Member of the Saeima shall cease to be in office Andris Kazinovskis, whose mandate was approved by the Saeima for the duration of the term of office of the Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Latgale electoral district.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U5	Thank you. Colleagues, therefore, we have heard the announcement, and I thank Andris Kazinovskis for his work in the Saeima. On the agenda - draft decision “On Māra Mičerevska 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for as long as from the party Development/Par! Members elected to the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers.’ Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U6	In its meeting of 7 June this year, the Board for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima examined Ms Golubeva’s application for 13. the appointment of a member of the Saeima to the term of office of the Minister. Next candidate from the Party for Development/About! The list of candidates in the Riga electoral district is Maris Mičerevskis, who has agreed to accept 13. The Seimas Member's duties for a period of time and confirmed that he is not subject to restrictions on the appointment of a Member's office as laid down in the Saeima Election Law and other laws and regulations. The Commission calls for support to be given to the Parliament’s draft decision ‘On Māra Mičerevska 13’. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for as long as from the party Development/Par! Members elected to the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers.’
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U7	Thank you. I call on Maris Micherevski to take an oath or to make a solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U8	As a member of the Saeima, I swear to the Latvian people to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with a better consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U9	Thank you. I'm calling for an oath. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Māra Mičerevska 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for as long as from the party Development/Par! Members elected to the list of candidates in the Riga Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties”! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations on 13. Members of the Saeima, Maris Michelevski! (Applause) Dear colleagues, On the agenda - draft decision “On Livas Kreituses 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members of the Party “New Conservative Party” in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U10	At its meeting on 7 June this year, the Board for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima examined Gatas Eglīkss’ application on 13. the appointment of a member of the Saeima for the term of office of the Minister. The next candidate from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Riga Electoral Area is Līva Kreituse, who has agreed to accept 13. The duties of a member of the Saeima for a period of time, as well as the fact that he is not subject to restrictions on the appointment of a Member as laid down in the Saeima Election Law and other regulatory acts, shall not apply to him. The Commission calls for support for the draft decision of the Saeima on the Līvas Kreituses 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members of the Party “New Conservative Party” in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U11	Thank you. I invite Līvs Creek to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U12	As a member of the Saeima, I swear to the Latvian people to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U13	Thank you. I'm calling for an oath. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Livas Kreituses 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for a period of time, while the elected Members of the Party “New Conservative Party” in the Riga Electoral Region perform their duties as ministers”! Please, let's vote! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Congratulations on 13. Members of the Saeima Līvu Kreitis! (Applause) On the agenda - draft decision “On Māra Belaunieks 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for as long as Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Vidzeme Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties’. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U14	In its meeting of 7 June this year, the Board for Mandates, Ethics and Applications of the Saeima discussed Anita Muižniece's application on 13. the appointment of a member of the Saeima to the term of office of the Minister. The next candidate from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Vidzeme Election Area is Maris Belaunieks, who has agreed to accept 13. The Seimas Member's duties for a period of time and confirmed that he is not subject to restrictions on the appointment of a Member's office as laid down in the Saeima Election Law and other laws and regulations. The Commission calls for support to be given to the draft decision of the Saeima "On Māra Beļaunieks 13. Approval of the mandate of a Member of the Saeima for as long as Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Vidzeme Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties’.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U15	Thank you. I call on Maris Beļinieks to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U17	Thank you. I'm calling for an oath. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Māra Belaunieks 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate as long as Members elected from the list of candidates for the New Conservative Party in the Vidzeme Electoral Region fulfil their ministerial duties”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 75, it's against and it's abstaining. Decision adopted. Congratulations on 13. Members of the Saeima Maris Beļunieks! (Applause) Communication on 13. Participation of the Saeima Member Martin Stein in the composition of the Saeima on a permanent basis. Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U18	The Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission has received 13. Documents certifying the death of Inese Iksten, Member of the Saeima. At its meeting on 31 January 2019, the Saeima approved the mandate of Mārtiņš Steinas as a Member, while from the Political Party Association for Development/Par! Members elected to the list of candidates in the Vidzeme Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers. Mārtiņš Šteins has been invited to join the Saeima on a permanent basis in accordance with the parliamentary order roll, and he has agreed to it. In its meeting of 7 June this year, the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications assessed all documents received and therefore declares that Mārtiņš Šteins 13. The Saeima is composed not for a time, but on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U19	Thank you. So we have heard the announcement. And the draft decision “On Viestura Liepkalna 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for as long as from the party Development/Par! The Members elected to the list of candidates in the Vidzeme Electoral Region shall act as Ministers.’ Ainars Latkovskis, Member of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U20	On the basis of the first and third paragraphs of Section 6 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure, the Saeima’s Mandate, Ethics and Application Commission has prepared draft decision of the Saeima “On Viestura Liepkalna 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate as long as from the party association Development/Par! The Members elected to the list of candidates in the Vidzeme Electoral Region shall act as Ministers.’ From the party association Development/About! the list of candidates in Vidzeme Election Area 13. Artis Pabriks has been elected to the Saeima, who has set 13. the parliamentary mandate for the term of office of the Minister. Whereas 13. Member of the Saeima Mārtiņš Šteins has joined the Saeima on a permanent basis, the next candidate for the Member's office in this constituency is Viesturs Liepkalns, who has agreed to accept 13. The parliamentary mandate. The Commission invites to support the draft decision of the Saeima “On Viestura Liepkalna 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for as long as from the party Development/Par! Members elected in the Vidzeme electoral district of the list shall perform their duties as ministers.’
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U21	Thank you. I invite Viesturs Liepkalna to make an oath or solemn promise.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U22	As a member of the Saeima, I swear to the Latvian people to be loyal to Latvia, to strengthen its sovereignty and Latvian language as the only state language, to defend Latvia as an independent and democratic state, to perform my duties in good faith and with the best consciousness. I undertake to respect the Constitution and laws of Latvia.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-08-PT13-2266-U23	Thank you. I'm calling for an oath. Please call me! We will vote for the draft decision “On Viestura Liepkalna 13. Approval of the parliamentary mandate for as long as from the party Development/Par! Members elected to the list of candidates in the Vidzeme Electoral Region shall perform their duties as ministers’! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Decision adopted. Congratulations on 13. Members of the Saeima Viesturs Liepkalna! (Applause) Thank you, dear colleagues. The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for notifications. Dear colleagues, The Saeima has received the 13th Saeima Bureau. The application of the Saeima Members Juris Pūce, Vitas Andas Steel and Andra Skride, by which 13. The candidacy of Ms Inese Voika as a member of the Saeima shall be directed. The Saeima Bureau shall determine one hour for the submission of other nominations. To this end, nominations for the post of secretary of the Saeima must be submitted in writing to the Bureau today, 8 June, at 2.20 p.m. Ladies and gentlemen, I recall that today's second remote emergency session starts at 14.00. So let's start work on the University Law at 14.00. There's also a record of Members. Registration is over. So I closed the sitting.
