ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U1	Good morning, honourable Members! We shall begin the first remote emergency sitting on 25 February 2021. On the agenda - consideration of draft decisions. The draft decision “On the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of 19 February 2021 No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U2	Good morning, dear colleagues! In its meeting of 24 February 2021, the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption examined the Cabinet of Ministers order of 19 February 2021 on amendments to the declared emergency situation. The order in question was discussed within the Commission. It provides for a number of things that I will list without, of course, giving a complete report on every detail. The first is therefore that, in addition to the existing restrictions, there is a ban on the provision of economic services related to entertainment and well-being in Chambers. Further, the order, as you know, also lays down more detailed conditions for organising the learning process on-site 1-4. Class 1 - for example, the on-the-spot training process may take place if the 14-day cumulative rate per 100 000 inhabitants in a given administrative area does not exceed 200 cases, obviously respecting safety requirements - the epidemiological safety requirements - as well as weekly testing in these schools, where the on-the-spot training process and employment is allowed. It is also established that if the rate of morbidity per 100 thousand inhabitants in a given administrative territory exceeds 400 cases and there is a situation that the legal representative of the child cannot work remotely and cannot ensure supervision of the child in the presence of another adult, then the founder of the educational institution ensures that the pre-school education programme is studied in person, respecting the epidemiological safety requirements, as well as carrying out weekly testing of the employees of the relevant institution. The order also lists, of course, certain municipalities that are allowed to start on-site training, but I will not refer here at this time to certain municipalities - they are available, everyone can get to know them separately if there is such a need. The order also provides for more detailed conditions for the provision of economic services, including sports training, such as the presence of not more than 300 persons in the area concerned. Each person is provided with at least 70 square metres and a two-metre distance can be observed everywhere. The formula for calculating the maximum number of visitors that may be present at a mountain skiing sports base with take-off tickets, as well as the obligation for the owner or owner of the sports base to designate a person responsible for implementing epidemiological safety measures, as well as providing the necessary control staff, including in car parks. It is also necessary to ensure video surveillance on-line in order to control relevant sites in order to avoid crowding people. The Order also provides that the allowances for officials with special service grades as well as municipal police officers who were involved and are still involved in the control of these restrictions, including home seats, are covered by the State Budget Programme “Unforeseeable Resources”, i.e. overtime is paid from this budget programme. In general, the Commission, having heard representatives of the ministries, institutions, Infectologists and legal experts, found that the amendments set out in the Government Order were justified, proportionate and necessary in the specific situation. I therefore call for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U3	Thank you. Let us start a debate. The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U4	Dear colleagues, Once a week, only once a week! - we, the representatives of the public, here in the Saeima, have the right to comment on this report too. And what we hear every Thursday... Yes, yes, a report on the fact that these restrictions have been justified and proportionate, but we have never heard that the government would have accounted for the impact of these restrictions on the economy and public health. As we can see, the current clarification of restrictions on ski bases is based on all kinds of considerations, but not on reason or calculation. Furthermore, I would like to point out that imposing such restrictions is, in fact, a very grateful soil for distorting competition. We can see this for small shops. And here I would like to point out that, on Thursday this sitting of the Saeima, we should have listened to a draft order from the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the abolition of trade restrictions on small shops and the application of reasonable restrictions in the future. But thanks to the cowardice of some good political power - I am talking about the UKP here - we are not deciding on this today. As you remember, last Thursday, the Saeima decided, however, in a rather broad debate... most... Therefore, do not support this draft decision of the Saeima on the abolition of restrictions in trade and on the adoption of reasonable decisions, by supplementing them with a report every two weeks from the Cabinet of Ministers regarding the manner in which these restrictions are applied and the effect of them. We heard from our colleagues, from the UK, - Krišjānis Feldman said: "Wait now, you are... we are now deciding what has already actually been decided in the Cabinet, because now, in the very same way as our Saeima sitting - we heard this last Thursday - the Cabinet is already deciding how to relieve small businesses from this burden, and we will see this draft decision right now. Stay calm, opposition, with your populism.” We heard this last Thursday. And we were promised - both for us and for the Latvian public - that the JPN will settle this case and have actually already settled it. What do we see this time? At the moment, we see that nothing has changed and we do not know if anything will change at all. We hear various conflicting information. Therefore, honourable colleagues, when you next time you think and listen to our respected colleagues from the coalition - the UK (Krišjānis Feldmans, Sandis Riekstins) - who will tell you that they are defending small businessmen, listen to the Saeima debate and look at the Saeima's votes. You will no longer have to do anything else, because these people stand up as small entrepreneurs and call for the Cabinet to act wisely called populism, honourable colleagues. Populism is that we strive for harmful action by the Cabinet of Ministers... harmful action to stop and call them to the mind - that is populism. Therefore, I will invite you not to support this draft decision this time, even though there are a lot of things that may seem good in it, and that is the trick of its Cabinet of Ministers - to put in one draft decision both bonuses and reliefs, simultaneously putting on the current folly. I will just call for an end to this wedding and first of all for an obligation for the Cabinet to come and account for every restriction. And this draft order should have had a report on what we have done with these 25 meters, which we have been banned from selling socks and so on, and so on. We do not see it, and we will hardly see it, because the government is led by a man who does not understand who he is. I call for no support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U5	Name to Member Janis Dombrava. ( Pause) The name of the Member, Lubov Svekov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U6	Good morning, colleagues! I guess there were technical problems because I couldn't understand what my computer was. I also want to explain my views and position on this order a little bit. It seems absurd to me to decide on 25 February to support an order prohibiting or, more precisely, restricting the use of ski tracks and introducing additional restrictions on the sports activities concerned. Why? Because the spring of the weather is just about to come and it is clear that the relevant restrictions on the use of mountain-screwing cameras are no longer relevant and will not be up to date. That's what we're doing. And one more thing that points to very serious problems in the decision-making process in the government and in the Cabinet of Ministers - the communication of officials, the professionalism of officials and the ability of officials to assume responsibility. It is obvious that Estonia has used the method... that they have a very long period of time in each of the counties... each municipality regulates restrictions... and regulated the prohibitions on an individual basis depending on the situation in the region concerned. At the same time, the restrictions introduced in Estonia were very well thought out, systematised and did not concern such sectors as sport, well-being services, as well as many, many others. So the question arises, where is the difference in nature between Latvia and Estonia. We have a very similar climate; we do not differ significantly in terms of the results of the disease. Accordingly, according to the European Union table, both Latvia and Estonia are practically adjacent to the appropriate level of risk and disease level, but sanctions that are applied and restrictions in Estonia are much more well thought-out, balanced, and only recently, when they become ill, were introduced at the same time in all municipalities. In addition, in any case, there are well-being services in Estonia, and in Estonia there are many other things, including sport, which clearly provide psychological and also physical preparedness for people and make it easier to cope with the stress of restrictions, the stress of ignorance, and a number of other things that are widespread in society today. In Latvia, as of November, it has been shut down, with every order of the next, it has increasingly tougher and tighter conditions, more and more restrictions, more and more obligations for people respectively... to regulate the operation. In addition, action is not segmented on the principle, so that people are better off, but better on control, so that people are better off to be punished. Unfortunately, therefore, in view of the fact that this order includes, in my view, absurd tasks and restrictions concerning sports activities and skiing routes, I will not support it. And I also call on colleagues not to support this kind of approach to introducing restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U7	Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis. ( Pause) So Mr. Dombrovskis is not in the system. Let us continue the debate. Name (Interior call.) ... That's... Let's just wait a second.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U8	You're my...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U9	Now we see now. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U10	Good morning, colleagues! However I do not like to talk to this weekly ritual, but now, colleagues, let us ask ourselves what we are doing here today, voting again on another version of the restrictions? Here my colleague has already spoken about what is the slogan for these new fictions: that the smoking of cameras is prohibited. You really, colleagues, look out, look at the forecast! Well, what kind of camera sucking, colleagues?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Then it is the same as when, on one of the previous occasions, colleagues, we voted to... on their limitation in shopping centers - one person per 25 square meters. And then, no one had looked at the forecast of time and had no idea - neither government nor Saeima - that under such circumstances, when there are minus 15, minus 20, there will be pensioner lines out. Here again are the same ravens, colleagues. In addition, I now... You have even read this new draft regulation? So in the outdoor space - in those mountain skiing places - 70 square meters per person to observe the distance of two meters. Read again, colleagues - 70 square meters per person to observe the distance of two metres. Well, that school wasn't so long ago, colleagues. Ask yourself why there are 25 square meters per person in the indoors, but outside - outside - 70 square meters per person? Where's the logic here, colleagues? We have a situation, colleagues (if you follow what is happening in general government) - we already have a government, the majority of ministers, turn out to be disobeying the Prime Minister. Then the Prime Minister goes to complain, meets, to the President of Latvia. The President of Latvia says harsh words to ministers. Do Ministers Listen? He doesn't. The news tells us that within two to four weeks we will start a new apocalypse, the third wave, due to the appearance of a new virus mutant from Britain. But if my colleagues look at the news in Britain, the world news at all, it seems that the world has not heard anything about the fact that it is about to start... will start a new apocalypse after two to four weeks. It seems that Britain, from which this new virus mutant comes, has not heard that there will be a new apocalypse in two to four weeks' time. Colleagues! Really ask yourself: what are we doing here today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U11	Name to Member Janis Dombrava.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U12	Dear Saeima! I would like to talk about this paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers order, which provides for the renewal of on-the-spot training in several educational institutions of Latvia. In fact, although this principle is not wrong for some small rural schools with low morbidity rates to resume their learning on the spot, the way it was adopted and the criteria originally included were, in my opinion, wrong. I'll explain why. First of all, it is not a good decision-making process when a decision that concerns many parents, pupils, school staff is taken a few days before this decision takes effect. In this case, the decision was made on Thursday, in fact, with a plan to re-establish the field learning on Monday. In many municipalities, this caused really enormous confusion about work organisation, how teachers can be provided with this teaching process on the basis of new rules, and so on. The other thing, which was illogical enough, is precisely the number of patients in the area, where the criterion of 200 per 100 000 inhabitants has been included, and at the same time these criteria have changed again in just one week's time. In fact, a number of municipalities where training can take place this week will no longer be able to do so next week. It is an irresponsible contraction of parents, pupils and school staff. I can say about Saulkrasti education institutions that this situation also occurred that this Monday the school resumed (in the last week the school authorities were very sceptical about the resumption of the field studies, given that this disease rate was very close to 200 for the sick) and it was already announced on Wednesday that, however, the field studies should be discontinued from next week. But the question is, who will take responsibility for this one-week period if, for example, there is an increase in the incidence, who will take responsibility for those people who have now quickly redeployed all their work from distance learning to on-site training so as to resume distance learning again next week? I do not really understand why this right thing about reinstatement in small rural schools could not be done as a first step and then look at how to take the next steps towards reinvigorating on-the-spot training in perhaps smaller cities and perhaps in long-term cities. It would have been right, successively, and it should certainly have been done at least with a week's long delay, rather than four days before making a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U13	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U14	(Sound rupture) ... combine time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U15	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U16	As an opposition Member, I do not understand the lack of consistency in the decisions of the government and the ruling coalition. I believe that there is a need to strengthen healthcare capacity, not to be afraid of waves, and to ban the use of a camera in the spring, I do not know, on a pond or where. Strengthening healthcare capacity has been replaced by a poorly organised and sometimes even comical vaccination process. Remember, when there were two percent of the gross product to be protected, the money immediately existed. Now we need health - never has. Year, two, never! That's funny, isn't it? The economic downturn and job losses are catastrophic. The atrophication of educational institutions has led to the marginalisation of young people and public debt is increasing. As a representative of the opposition, I have always stressed that this kind of policy threatens the statehood of Latvia, and the solution for this is not even to replace Kariņš with Pabrika or Asheraden itself, but to change elite thinking. Action must be taken, not fear of the virus. There are all the preconditions for successfully bringing the country out of the crisis. This requires mobilisation. At present, the government and the existing coalition of power are not under the leadership of a demonstration of populist ambitions by various political forces, which has nothing to do with promoting a coordinated state to overcome the crisis. Points for municipal elections are being collected, virtual achievements in some areas are being demonstrated, but no work is being done on the planned management of the crisis. Neither has this happened any day. And this relevant decision today on mountain-screwing plus 10 or 13 degrees is the best example of this. As a society, you know what's going on in hospitals? In addition, the majority, the overwhelming majority, get sick at home without burdening hospitals. The capacity of the care system has increased over the year? How much? Nobody knows that. No one is accountable for this either. And that is why the big restrictions must be lifted today. Schools, sport, public catering - this should be initiated, not threatened with waves. Another issue is the responsibility of those who should be responsible for those who will no longer wait for Christmas, because the spread of the disease in social care homes has not been prevented. And who, by the way, will be responsible for the inaction of power that causes people to hang up because it is ashamed to come home without money to the family? The responsibility for this situation lies with Kariņš, who considered himself to be the champion throughout the summer and was not prepared for the rapid spread of the disease in the autumn, which is something that doctors tell you every day. So there's nothing to think about! Now we need to think about how to do so that the economy and the country are not paralysed, and we need to stop fearing people with waves. That's the first part of the story. The second part of the story in the same context is that the crisis management work lacks analytic, it is chaotic, which weary everyone - society and them, power... So it's yourself. This gives rise to a lack of trust in decisions - including those that are meaningful. At present, it is clear not only for the rapid intervention and the SPPC, but for any citizen of the queue, that the virus will not disappear anywhere and will continue to be around everyone to whom it can stick, so basically the unvaccinated and/or the sick. At the current vaccination rate and all of the madness that is happening, the critical mass of immunity of the crowd will be at best after three years. But since all of this must be done every six months, even theoretically, it is not possible to achieve immunity of the crowd by vaccination. We have heard stories about the enormous pace of vaccination almost every week since December, but none of this has happened. So vaccination is not a solution for Latvia. Consequently, it is only left to get sick, otherwise sitting at home is endless, and it is clear what scenarios are expected in the foreseeable future. So far, disease has been disturbed by a limited number of beds, so today's basic question is whether and what is being done since the virus has clearly been known to significantly increase the number of beds and increase the number of patients would not endanger the medical system, as well as how much our medical experts and advisors have now analysed and taken over the latest available research in many parts of the world to significantly increase the resilience of people to this virus in order to treat it at an early stage without reaching the hospital. The only model to save a hundred lives is not to hide thousands of lives from this virus. There is no model in which you can just break into your home and run this virus past. The government has not come up with a clear model at all. Luxophore is not a model, it is a response to what has already happened. Of course, this is not necessarily dependent on the name or ideology of a political party that is in power at the moment. At present, it depends solely on personality, nature, determination, perception and will. That is what everyone expects from the Heads of State in such a serious crisis. No one in this power has any personality, character, determination, comprehensibility and will to take the country out of the crisis. That is why today, bureaucraticly, we confirm that the camera must not slip away from the mountain and that 70 metres between people must be kept on the mountain. Dear friends, get out of the street of Jacob, look at the time, and you will understand that the mountain is over. This week. That's it. There's no more. What do you approve? Stop laughing at society! Free the economy, be bold! It is a story about the brave state leadership that we do not have, about the change of thinking, because the war cannot be won by barricade - the war can be won by going in battle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U17	Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U18	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Good morning, colleagues! Of course, the glowing of the camera from the mountains forgives this issue with such a special smell and that... I asked my colleagues why the mountain industry went to the government to ban some kind of choking activity on its own property. That raises questions, of course, but that is not why I have applied for this debate. I was encouraged by Mr Dombrava's speech on the learning process this week and the way in which it has been cut down and the decisions taken at the last moment to apply for it. I would like to mention the fact that it is very good that you spoke about responsibility. For me too, this issue of responsibility is important. The theme that you have spoken about today concerns about about 20 municipalities - the story is about about 20 municipalities that were all involved in it. On the other hand, there are 119 municipalities that were selected twice more crazy than those currently selected. These 119 municipalities were forced to prepare for a particular process so that food products were bought to feed children, school premises were set up according to the rules, and last moment was said - no, plans are changing. Same as I said... Mrs Šuplinsk should talk less... figure out everything properly with industry experts and then come with such loud, beautiful statements. The same goes on in some way, too, which Mr Dombrava, I understand, perhaps while living in his own district, has also discussed with the people of the educational institutions and understands the problems that exist at the moment. That's what John said, it's what he said. And I think in every place, if you had listened to how much anxiety it was after the previous breakdowns, when all schools were ready, it was quite tragic in the truth as it was... there was no one talking at all about compensation for damage - that on Saturday, Sunday, people... The employees of the educational establishments sat and taught their parents how the distance classes for the first class will take place. Colleagues, that's one thing. At the moment, this story has not improved in particular. What's the most tragic thing at the moment... You all perfectly understand this tragic situation with educational institutions... this twitching - how bad it is. Well, now we're going further into the next area and starting to hit business. The business has been ripped down for a week, and it is being promised, as Mrs Jūlija Stepanenko said, with regard to Mr Feldman's promises... Our draft decision of last week did not say that you had to open all these shops. It made it clear that you must also assess the consequences and give some support - about those things, including those that were talked about there. Now... It was promised for a week that there will now be shops open. Imagine, if you're a shopkeeper, you're counting on it, you're getting ready for it. And now... Since yesterday night... there are other types of information. President, you see, he's awake, he's starting to talk about it... on the responsibility of the Ministers. Colleagues, the break-up of sectors takes place all the time. It is not that now only the sector is red, the government of all the business industries has been greatly shrunk at the moment, and if these rules are not eased, it must be understood that people are already unable to do business. It is then necessary to give them some very concrete support in deciding that they can no longer work. That's why, colleagues, this... today, with all the cell sniffing and... That's what's not in here yet... there are also the right things, good things - police bonuses... and must be supported. In my opinion, this exceptional situation, these amendments to the rules are not so... The other things that are included there are not so critical that they are not supported, there are also very good things inside, and I call for these rules to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U19	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U20	Good morning, honourable colleagues! Two things. The first is that the government certainly acted in line with what Lenin said: "one step forward, two steps backwards". And the role of the Saeima is to support this action. To be honest, it is truly chaotic and not particularly thoughtful. In a TV interview today, the Minister of Transport said with such deep bitterness that, here, flights to third countries are available in Lithuania and Estonia, flights from Tallinn and Vilnius fly, but in Latvia it is prohibited. Where's the logic? When will we also accept this amendment on lifting restrictions and so on, and so on? So today's Saeima... As I have said on several occasions, the role of the Saeima is one to support the action taken by the government and not only to support but also to justify it. Second moment. These decisions often resemble soup with flies - small soups with a large number of flies. That is why this decision also looks like that, because it is very much in favour of the proposal to raise the remuneration of those people who are on the first line in the fight against the pandemic that have also been put on the folly that colleagues have already spoken about today. I think it would perhaps also be useful in the future for these decisions, if its practice is not terminated, to vote by articles - for every proposal that has been made in government debates and proposals, to be voted separately. Only then can a normal situation and a normal situation - perhaps normal! - The practice of the Saeima. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U21	The name to Member Julia Stepanenko for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U22	Colleagues, it is really an excellent proposal from Mr Dolgopolov. I also allow the Commission on Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption to do the same as the Saeima Members are encouraging - can be divided into articles and voted, and that would indeed be a very good precedent. But I would like to add that it will soon be a month since the Saeima voted on the task for the Cabinet of Ministers to allow children and young people to resume sport in accordance with the health safety protocol. In this situation, in which we see the gradual opening up of schools in accordance with this regional principle, which, as Mr Dombrava pointed out, is generally quite good and acceptable, but with its shortcomings... In this situation, too, as we have pointed out during the debate, and also in this annex to the draft decision, it is absolutely necessary to take into account the regional principle. Children are already melting ice, hockey players who want to train out, want to continue training - they have melted ice right now, and you've done nothing to bring them even a little closer to reality of hope... Nothing! And there is nothing in this draft decision that you have promised and that you are committed to. Therefore, colleagues, I will remind you once again - we are using this very small opportunity once - once! - a week to say what we think about the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers, we would like to point out once again that absolutely unsatisfactory activities on the part of the Cabinet of Ministers are not to take into account all public opinion and all the incentives that take place every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U23	Name to Member Ivars Zarins.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U24	Good morning, everybody! If Latvia were a real democratic republic, then today, here in Parliament, which is the main decision-making body, the government would come with a reasoned report, not just put down its proposals before us, on which the rapporteur says: “I will not even list them all, just vote for them.” The whole procedure shows what fiction the state of Latvia has turned into. We do not function as a democratic republic. There is a political cartel of power that has come to power and that simply does what it wants. In this case, they have not been lucky because they have come to the community and the community is concerned about the ubiquitousness of this power cartel. There's their regularities there. Now, this power cartel is forced to demonstrate its inability and incompetentness, its permissiveness and irresponsibleness, unfortunately so. These governments... The actions of this government remind us of a situation from an anecdotes, where a person comes to a store... See... in which he would like to shop... but, it turns out, the store is closed. He turns around and just starts to beat all the people around with his shopping network. He is asked about this, “Why are you doing this?” And he answers: “What should I do?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, “ This government is acting like that, just without sense, without understanding. What it does now, and what it offers us, is to accept this model of behaviour, that is to say, coming, we are told that there are problems... Yes, there are problems. There is, and there is, such a disease and such events. Therefore, we are being offered some measures, but there is no analysis where there is a causal link: how these measures will help, whether they will actually work, how those measures that have already been adopted have worked. If there is no causal link, either this government is completely stupid and it is unable to see, analyse and thus justify its actions, or this government considers the entire Latvian society to be totally stupid and, of course, also considers the Latvian Saeima to be stupid, who can simply drop something in front of it and say: “Please vote for this. Maybe it'll happen this time." It's like when a man has a cough, let's put him on his neck! We put it on. Okay. Really not working, maybe now let's try to cut off one leg. It didn't work. Maybe we'll cut the right hand, maybe that'll happen. Why do you need to cut? Well, it's still a cough. This logic is what this government is doing at the moment: it is just as thoughtful and so obvious. What else ironic is that these decisions are... Normal decisions should not only be reasonable but also timely. This story, which has already been mentioned many times here today, shows the capacity and competence of this government when it comes to finally introducing regulation on the mountains, skiing mountains, when it comes to it. Just like this narrow thinking at the time, this one was unable to see the cause... Let us say that there were restrictions on the book shops - as if, looking narrowly, yes, so if we close the prisons where people can meet, where people can exchange this virus, then it should be that we reduce these risks of disease. So primitive, narrow logic, but realistic if we understand what we are doing, then in principle people go to book shops why? Not for the purpose of gluing, but for the purpose of purchasing a book and then being able to sit alone at home, exactly what the government wants, this option of sitting so that people are more at home. And so they close the booksellers to make them less possible for a person to try to fill his time with something else. Just the same way, I think that the most absurd thing that is happening at the moment, if we are talking about trade, is the closed farm shops. These are not shops to which people go to have fun. People go because they have certain needs, and they are usually related to household chores as well. So it's completely absurd that if a person can't work himself with something else, well, then he'll... look for some other entertainment. As a result, we are achieving again the opposite effect of all this. And if we're talking about these... how these absurd regulations were made, why 25 square meters were needed in the premises, but outside the mountain, 70 square meters were needed... Colleagues, I can tell you how the government came to these wise decisions. I call for the time of my speech to be joined up.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U25	The speaking time is combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U26	That is, the government itself is not in a position to figure out anything. It was designed by people in this sector. Why did they come up with such regulations? Because they thought of how much the stupidness of the government could be and because, in order not to give God, the government did not accept its once-wise restriction that people had to limit their outdoor activities, they came to regulation right away so that they could reserve that the stupidity of the government would simply be counteracted by offering a truly unrealistic restriction to the last industry that would suffer from some further stupid government decisions. That's how they came up. And really, we can see the stupidity of the government in all this common context, when it takes 70 square meters in outdoor spaces, so in the fresh air, the government, so smart, has come up with 25 square meters in shops, but what about public transport? Well, government, if you wanted... if you have any meaning, some understanding of how this infection develops, what the paths of this infection are, then tell me why public transport can adopt a completely different regulation, where people really do, where it is moving... movement and concentration of people is much greater... Why is that allowed? For example, the opportunity for people to shop in a household goods store, to buy life, to function needs things - for which plumbing has broken, for which electrical engineering has broken... This is not possible. My call to the government would be to really think about their capacity and really think about whether these people who are there are at all... If you are not able to make your decisions responsibly, try to communicate about them. First, communicate and tell. Perhaps you will be helped in this debate by people... will indicate whether your decisions are justified or not. Otherwise it turns out that this government is the greatest plague with its actions...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U27	Thank you. Name to Member Ivan Klementyev.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U28	Good morning, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Of course, we are still where we are. Yes, it will soon be a year since we are working remotely, but it is difficult to say whether there is any success or not, especially if we are now being warned of the third wave that it will start. But the question is, will we have enough specialists who will serve the two thousand more patients who will probably be in hospital, as we are promised, in four or six weeks' time. When I asked them again in the summer that we did - those doctors, doctors working in that red area, how we helped them to relax or to recover from that heavy three-to-four-month work during the first pandemic... Question 2... The answer was that we simply put them at 20 per cent of the salary. Dear colleagues, with no money you can not bring them back to their health, it will not come to rehabilitation itself! Now... It took another six months, more, and these medical workers are in an even deeper burning stage. Let us help them so that we have at least one in four or six weeks to treat those two thousand who are still in the hospital. We need to think about it. A we are talking about it being squeezing - yes or no. The winter is almost over, and I guess this other cold wave with snow will not be this year, but you're talking about it. I offer the Cabinet of Ministers to leave service cars and drive public transport at one time, go on foot to the supermarket and see how people buy products that they still need to buy, as well as people walk on the same streets, on the trampolines, where snow dirty and people go close to each other. There's no 25 meters, no 75 meters, half a meter away from each other... and without masks, breathes or coughs still upon you. Or like people, one goes past, the other runs next. If a man runs and breathes, of course it all goes through the air... up to five meters in the air even, and if the wind blows on your side... Skiing is just over, but how many people were hiding. It's not that 300 people are on one hill, there's 100 or 200 people on a one kilometre ski track. Is that good or bad? But no one complains: “I spend my free time in the fresh air, I skied or run, and I get sick.” I didn't hear anything like that, and our doctors, our specialists, can't say either, right there, that's because he was skiing or breathing deeply. It is also the elderly who are skiing a lot this year, and it helps them to maintain their health. On 21 February, our next town - Tartu - was held the 47th ski marathon in the length of 63 kilometres or 31 kilometres. At least nine thousand participants participated. Nine thousand! You can imagine how it comes from many countries, from many countries! Also from Latvia. It's allowed to hold a competition there. Maybe it wasn't reasonable because now, if it's checked, the Tartu Marathon... its website is closed, the information is closed. Perhaps the Estonian Government did wrong, but yet it did, it did. Unfortunately, we banned all the events, even the same ski race, where 100 people participated... and so you can't, you can't, you can't, and that's it. Well the theory without practice is blind. It is the same as the Cabinet of Ministers makes a decision and does not know the situation in which they are. Also, since... they act like blind people. I call on the Cabinet of Ministers, all those who make decisions - please come here to the Saeima sitting, join the Internet and also declare your name, and we want to see that you have expressed your views here to Members and to the general public, not as a closed or now open sitting. Thank you. I will not support this order.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U29	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U30	Hello! Please bring me together the times of the debate.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U31	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U32	Thank you. Hello, colleagues! Today, once again, we are like people at an airport who are staying with their hands and trying to shout a plane that has already been raised in the sky with a permit to fly. This plane is already on its way. All these rules that we must vote on have long been in force, and as if everyone has to comply with them. But the main absurdity is that the people of Latvia expect absolutely another from us. We're talking like an empty place. Where is the report on whether Latvian students - everyone, everyone - are provided with computers for remote training? Where is the message about what will be with the promised lump sum for pensioners and disabled people? Where are the news that in Latvia consider the banking moratorium on communal payments and the repayment of mortgage interest? Where are the news that there are... what is the response to an open letter sent to government ministers for a €500 premium to the family allowance, however, for all young people aged between 15 and 20 who are unemployed, since children who do not continue to receive training after grade 9 due to different circumstances, as well as university students aged between 18 and 20, have fallen out of this allowance. Parents write to ministers, there is no answer. There's nothing. Another payment of EUR 500. I have just encountered a situation where a woman died on Monday, 22 February, and she has a child who is 11 years of age. The situation is that, if the city's orphan's court does not decide on the appointment of the guardian by 15 March, that child will remain without this allowance, without a family allowance and in fact without means of survival. There are very, very many such situations. And instead of throwing a message from the Prime Minister into the public space that in two or three weeks' time we are threatened by three thousand community patients in hospital... Where are all these reports that concern the welfare of certain people and the hope that they will survive in the future in this country? We are dealing with politics. I am thinking of a ruling coalition because, as an opposition, I do not get myself away from people who have to make a decision. And today, I would like to say to you - what you are doing is a crime - to tell people that we are threatened with the third wave that some tsunami awaits us, and not to say a word about how you are going to accept those three thousand people, perhaps people who are suffering from Covid-19. What is being done? Will we have some extra beds for that and so on... But if this is done with only one goal - blackmailing the ruling coalition parties with what will now come out of this unfortunate government (not thinking at all about how this information is taken by people) - then, sorry, it is immoral, just as immoral, as I said last time, it was to graft people who have nothing to do with the security of the country and who will now feel happyly sabotaged when Latvia, according to you, will wait for the third wave and tsunami. Once again, I am waiting for the government to report on all the points that I said about. Please keep your promises, be responsible, not immoral! Don't be people who launch planes in the sky without any permission to go anywhere! You are doing this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U33	I closed the debate. For the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U34	Thank you, colleagues. On behalf of the Commission, I would like to say that there was a very interesting and beautiful debate, including controversial reasoning, and it was very interesting to see it. I would perhaps like to speak very briefly on a few points. Therefore, on behalf of the Commission, the impact of these restrictions on the economy and the economy. Once again, I call on all of you to take part in the meetings of the Commission, which was delivered by the Infectologists, to show the current situation and timetables about what is happening in the country, including how other countries are referred to as examples, and also to Estonia, which you are calling for, which is currently very ill, and which is a trend in the timetable... is a huge difference from Latvia. There is such a slight downward trend in Latvia, but it was stable all the time, while Estonia, on the contrary, has a huge trend towards morbidity. If our average against the number tested is about... The number of positive tests is about eight percent, then in Estonia yesterday, if I am not mistaken, was 14,7 and so close to 15 percent. Estonia will immediately decide very strict restrictions. So if you followed commission meetings or at least what's happening in the mass media, then you'd know about it. This case, which concerns how much the rapporteur said or did not say every detail. Now I would ask Members to remember, however, that everyone is obliged to read the document and the accompanying documents on which we are taking decisions, because the rapporteur names the most important. And hardly would we be interested now to just mechanically read any document. Then we would get the opposite: the accusations that we are taking time here and that nothing is understandable. I would like to go on with these sports bases. The opposition itself has also said how this proposal was made, but it is not understandable who then was wrong with this proposal - 70 square metres per person... On the one hand, we are told by the representative that it was brought by the industry and, at the same time, he denies that the government did. Well, okay, colleagues, thank you for this debate, but in any case this situation is that the mountains... What was at that point... There were many accusations that crowded people there had to be regulated, and they could also receive criticisms from the opposition that these mountains were not regulated contrary to everything else. We are now receiving criticisms that they are regulated, and thank you to the weather conditions that are now grateful to say that there is no snow at all in the mountains, and that is why we have the opportunity to talk about what the government is doing wrong again, because it has not been guided by the forecasts of the time. On the other hand, if there were snow, there would be no such argument again. In words, thank you, colleagues, for this discussion. Once again, I call on you to follow the Commission's sitting. If this is not possible because you are sitting in other commissions, this entry is available on the public website of the Saeima, and you will be able to see all these curves about morbidity, about neighbouring countries, as well as the economic impact, how much and what specific benefits are required, what is the situation with unemployment and what is the situation with the economy as a whole. All of this is available in detail there. If I had the opportunity to present myself here in the Saeima sitting, I would be happy to do so. Unfortunately, this is not possible for technical reasons. So thank you, colleagues. I call on you to support the draft decision drawn up by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2201-U35	Thank you. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 19 February 2021 No. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 61, for - 4, for - 19. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, We have examined the agenda of the sitting. Today's second remote emergency session starts at 10.15. So after 15 minutes - at 10.15 - the second remote emergency sitting. I'm closing the sitting. Registration of Members. Thank you.
