ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U1	Dear Members and honourable Members, The agenda for the third remote emergency session of the Saeima started on 3 June 2021. On the agenda - reports from the Saeima Bureau on draft laws submitted. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Sport Law” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Bureau proposes to refer the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, to the Budget and Financial (Tax) Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be submitted to the Education, Culture and Science Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? Members shall not object. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The next item on the agenda - Election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, expression of trust or distrust. On the agenda - draft decision on the election of Mr Ata Zakatistov as a Member of the Commission for Petitions. Members Atis Zakaitistovs, Ainars Latkovskis, Raivis Dzintars, Juris Jušas, Arvils Aseradens, Anda Čakšas, Inese Lībiņa-Egne, Aldis Adamovičs, Ojārs Ēriks Kalniņš and Atis Lejiņš have submitted a draft decision on the election of Member Ata Zakaistovstovs to the Commission for Petitions. We launched a debate on the draft decision. Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U2	Good evening, colleagues! As always, what principles do we now decide on how Members are divided into commissions? Why did I ask? Because I remember some time ago another Member, I think several times... which also counted outside political groups... tried to apply for participation in the Request Commission and this participation was rejected. I think if we want to keep Latvian society at least the least hope that this Saeima works according to the principles of the rule of law and democracy, then... here I would call on those who are leading this draft decision now to apply for a debate and to justify the principles on which you believe that, in this particular case, such a decision will comply with the principles of the rule of law and democracy on which our Constitution is based, on which the cooperation documents that we have all signed are based. If there's no such justification... I understand that you simply think you can ignore it, just as you do in your coalition, and all the principles of Chefing that you have there, with you, in the coalition, can be transferred here too, to the Saeima, officially. On the other hand, by providing that this is the current coalition deal, which, as a rule, does not care for any rule of law and democracy, or what is written in the Constitution or in other laws, I would like to call on this Member to now apply for his own seat, so that he can explain the purpose for which he wishes to operate within the Committee on Petitions, because he had already left it himself, he wanted him to be removed from the field. Is that something... is it done within the framework of the transaction? Why is he coming back there? Above all, I would like to ask you to know how the Request Commission actually works, because it seems that there are still certain Members who have appeared momentarily in this Commission and who have not understood that the Request Commission has a specific format. The inquiry panel deals with the requests, that is, the request is being examined, not the applicants, as was often the case for that particular Member that he asked the applicant rather than the defendant. Thus, in order to understand how the Requests Commission works, I repeat once again: the Requests Commission is the place where the requests are being examined. The Appeals Board is more likely to act as jurors who listen to this debate between the applicants and the defendants and assess whether the request made by the applicants is justified or not. This is the main thing that needs to be ensured by the Commission on Petitions rather than by the debate between the Members of the Commission on Petitions and the claimants. This is an important nuance that I would like to call for future consideration if this draft decision is supported. Of course, I'm waiting... I call on you to apply to one of the promoters of this draft decision and to justify the principles that guide you to this draft decision. If you do not apply, then you will confirm that this draft decision has nothing to do with the rule of law, with democracy, with those principles which, as I said, are laid down in the Constitution, on which we should take our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U3	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U4	Colleagues! I see that Ainars Latkovsky is among the signatories. I remember very well those old good times: when we were all together in the large meeting room of the Saeima and I was really, yes, I was! - I tried to change the commission several times, and to me the same Ainars Latkovsky explained that there are separate, concrete principles according to which the political groups have agreed on the proportion of Members in the commissions, namely the proportion of Members from the elected lists, and that these principles are not subject to change. Thus, my hope of replacing the commission was in vain. I was told this way. I see that the situation has changed to some extent at the moment; I would probably also be able to qualify for the status of a Member of the Commission on Petitions, and I really had to give up those expectations. But could it not be that there are rules here that there is a separate group of Members who are allowed to violate both the agreement, the principles and the roll of the parliamentary order, and there are Members who are not subject to these conditions? Because we also see a certain situation... is an example: it was created somewhere in the shrubs, under the underwear of the Stability Group that wanted to be led by the Zakaistov. I don't know if this group is still needed for Zakaistov at all, that was... probably, to mark the territory, who will then be those faithful Karini’s servants. We applied together with colleagues in this Stability Group as members, and we also wanted to look at how... who understands stability, and - your miracle! - In the Bureau later (if I am not mistaken, one hour after our submissions) an hasty set-up procedure was put in place, so colleagues from this so-called Stability Group, including Mr Zakatistov, that they will only welcome new members by voting. And, you know, it seemed normal for the Bureau that, when we already submitted these applications and entered this group, we can take a decision retroactively that no one else can enter this group; that this is normal, it can be done. Just like now, when you, Mr Zarins, call, Mr Latkovsky will not come to speak, he will never come to speak, and no one comes to speak when you call them. I don't know what that is about, but you always ask logical questions, and no one comes out logical questions. Always come out when you need something to calm down. But when there is a specific question - answer that, please, how it happens that there is now an unequal situation - you will not be answered. So... I understand that there are the following conditions that... as a result, opposition or non-group Members... They are therefore not subject to these conditions, but the Bureau can act in a safe manner as it wishes. Similarly, those colleagues who have signed this wonderful application for the election of Ata Zakaistov to the Appeals Commission can do the same. You don't have to be a distraughter, you don't have to be a pedagogue to realize that Atim Zakaistov will have the status of head of the commission and that former member of the Stability Group or CPV LV, who was in this commission, went to the Bureau. It has been agreed that nothing should hurt anyone anywhere and have no pleasure in the fact that there is now any loss of income. Just like Mr. Pouce's was. You remember, don't you? Everything here is very well exchanged in places, all the puzzles coincide together. So nobody will come and talk to you here - neither Latkovsky, Zakaistov, Raivis Dzintars, nor Juris Jušaks. None of them will come because they are ashamed. They sit and remain silent, and they are waiting for this decision to be made more quickly, because it is an agreement that they now have to meet - about what happened in the Saeima today. Very simple. Tell me what it is! You don't have to pretend here now. Colleagues, I call for this hypocrisy not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U5	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I understand that the really newly created informal group must also have representation in such a responsible commission. I would like to remind you that 12. During the parliamentary term, Member Artuss Kaimiņš had repeatedly made a proposal to rename this committee - not to call it the Request Commission, but to reject requests - or to abolish it at all. Because this procedure is absolutely unnecessary and only delays Members' attention and time, which could be devoted to much more serious tasks. Perhaps sometime such a decision will also become, and perhaps sometime it will be, by changing the Rules of Procedure and the law of each other with a salt. That is a matter of time. But in this case, I think that Mr Zakatistov's role in this committee, regardless of whether he will lead it or not, is only to ensure that their main function is to reject any request. That does not, to be honest, honor the parliamentary republic and it does not honor the main decision-making body of the parliamentary republic, the parliament. I call for this proposal not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U7	Name to Member Aldi Gobzem.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U8	Colleagues! I do not really understand the meaning of the Request Commission. This is indeed the case: all requests are made by the opposition, and as the position is in excess, the position rejects all requests. In fact, nothing happens in this commission... real. Even as the commission is not paid, I think. Well, it is not that Members are obliged to go to commission meetings to get a salary for this, let us say. Where is the point, can you explain to me? Where is the point of keeping such a commission? Where? There is a huge wish for there to be a Commission on Petitions, where Zacatistov must be in order to be able to reject all requests. Likewise, it is all clear - what the coalition does or does not do and what the opposition does or does not do. It seems to me that a pointless commission... Just as we need to reduce public administration, we also need to reduce the number of commissions in the Saeima, because for a normal person from the edge who works eight hours a day, the question arises: what are the Members doing? Act with the rejection of requests by this commission! One hundred percent of requests have, in my opinion, been rejected. Maybe one isn't, I don't know, but I think one hundred percent of everyone. pointless, pointless commission! I understand that Ivars Zarins will now apply and talk about OIC. And what do I mean? That's enough for the wand. Since the leijer box, the OIC dries all the time on the circle. Mr Zarins, nothing changes from your weekly request for OIC. Is there a criminal case? None. Is there a case? There's nothing. OIC and? OIC is still! How much is there? eight or how many years, Mr. Zarins, are you taking that OIC with that Request Commission? I think it's just the same virtual game is to play all the time on the ring the same thing. I think it doesn't work. We need more effective work, including from the opposition point of view. Now its inefficient commission is both for the opposition and for the position, pointless in nature! As the opposition, too, let us say fairly, we need to learn from our constituents more effectively to say things that are not being put in the position. That's why this theater has to be finished once, there's nothing to do with it! After all, the legislator... Either, at least formally... Despite the fact that it is a puppet legislator... According to the constitution, the legislator is in the sovereign state. At least formally, the power of the highest. And if there's something pointless in the upper power... Well, but that's what I'm saying, I'm honest about it, isn't it? I've been to the Commission for Petitions. Now a completely pointless start, a completely pointless spending of time! Well, if it were to happen in a private company, I don't know... It's all right. It's all right. It's all right, it's all right. All in turn would be replaced on the same day. Absolutely inefficient work. All right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U9	Name to Member Ivars Zarins for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U10	Oh, yeah. For those who have not understood what this commission is doing: this commission works exactly the same way... deals with the same thing as all other commissions. That is to say, there must be a single task, that is to say, legalising, implementing coalition decisions. That's all. That is all that this commission and the rest of us are dealing with. The Saeima acts simply as an obedient voting machine, and only in certain cases so-called parliamentary accidents occur: suddenly it is not why most Members begin to vote as they have sworn to their constituents, that is to say, in their conscience, and in their efforts to respect everything they have promised. As far as OICs are concerned, whatever they want, everything is happening there. Slowly happens, but it happens; there are criminals, there will also be those responsible. Now we have a new Interior Minister who will follow this, I hope, and will be at least interested. And if this process doesn't go as far as it needs, it's at all... Why is the Request Commission also needed, and why are there so often OIC requests? Because it is only thanks to these requests that something is happening; otherwise those responsible for monitoring this system do nothing. They do exactly as much as is achieved by the Commission on Requests, no more. The contribution from the work of this committee - to be more correct, from the fact that there is someone who makes requests and defends them - is great. This decision of the Office of the Prosecutor General on the procurement of vaccines is also due to requests. And today we were supposed to see it, but now we didn't. Let us look at this next time, and it can be shown there: if there had not been a request for the purchase of vaccines again, there would not have been a decision of the General Prosecutor's Office on the investigation, because it was precisely what we showed and how it should be investigated; that it had not been investigated; that it had been covered... That's it, in brief.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U11	The name to Member Aldi Gobzem for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U12	All right, all right, Mr. Zarin, you don't have to exaggerate. The Prosecutor General's Office does not initiate cases because it sees something or does not look at it in the Request Commission. If there are grounds, then encourages, there is no reason - does not encourage. In general, however, I think we should review this issue - that if we reject the request, the police, the Prosecutor General's Office will automatically respond. You don't have to tell people, now! I understand that many people do not understand the work of commissions as it happens. I can explain that I have been on different commissions. Most of the commissions are subject to a bureaucratic, boring process. What the official brings from the Cabinet of Ministers... formally overturns some pointless laws, which many Members (including me, by the way; I do not deny) have not read at all... Well, because it's just pointless. Only a small part is where there is the policy where there is taking... Well, there's some questions - each party has its own. Namely, the National Association - about the introductions, SAVE - about the Russians; for them there - about the Rainbow issues... All right. Then it takes... And then there's still a small part where some business is going, prisons like building and everything else, but most of the 90 percent is... simply reconfirms the bureaucratic documents brought by the civil service, from which there is no point in doing so. And the Request Commission simply rejects everything -- everything in a row, absolutely everything. The General Prosecutor's Office should then propose everything because it rejects everything. It doesn't happen. That's stupid, Mr. Zarin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U13	I closed the debate. Please call me! To be put to the vote on the draft decision on the election of Mr Ata Zakatistova as a Member of the Commission for Petitions! Please vote mode! For - 59, for - 9, for - 2. Decision adopted. The next item is the treatment of parliamentary requests. Requests received by Members. Members Edgars Tavars, Viktors Valainis, Uldis Augulis, Gundars Dauge, Armands Krauze, Jānis Vucāns, Raimonds Bergmanis, Māris Kučinskis, Jānis Dūklavs and Jūlija Stepanenko have submitted a request to Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš, Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs and Minister of Health Daniels Pavļutas “On the refusal of the Saeima Presidium to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima”. Member Edgars Tavars requested the motivation to be given on behalf of the parliamentary roll. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U14	Good evening! According to the Rally of the Saeima and the Constitution, 35 Members of the Saeima, on the basis of Article 20 of the Satversme, encouraged an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima to hear the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. On 27 May this year, the Saeima Bureau decided to refuse 35 Members of the Saeima to call an extraordinary meeting of the Saeima. On 27 May, the Bureau concluded that 34 Members of the Saeima have the right, in accordance with Article 20 of the Satversme, to request that a sitting of the Saeima be convened, but not the right to convene a sitting of the Saeima. Article 20 of the Satversme provides that the Presidium of the Saeima shall convene a sitting of the Saeima if the President of the State, the Prime Minister or not less than one third of the members of the Saeima so request. The second paragraph of Rule 118.2 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure provides that the Saeima Bureau shall include reports on the subject on the agenda of the ordinary sitting of the Saeima. When applying the analogy of the legal norms and assessing the situation of the Covid-19 pandemic as a difficult and serious time when the Saeima must consider issues of national importance and also unusual issues, which are not subject to an express verbis rule in the regulatory framework, we believe that the Saeima Presidium has acted illegally, contrary to this basic state law, because the Saeima did not convene the sitting. We demand that the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Foreign Affairs provide the following information. First. Prime Minister Arthur Krišjānis Kariņš is asked to submit a report on the implementation of the Saeima’s decision “On the Process of Men With Viewers in the Hockey of the 2021 World Championship” or... to be more precise, it is already a task of the Saeima, which has either not been fulfilled or has been carried out late. Second. to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavlut, to present a report on the progress made with regard to the review of existing restrictions on vaccinated people or persons who are suffering from Covid-19. And the third. Foreign Minister Edgars Rinkēvičs - to present a report on the progress made in his presence - in person! - in the opening of the world hockey championship (Latvia-Canada) during the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U15	The request shall be submitted to the Saeima At the request of the Commission. However, in view of the fact that here, from the parliamentary tribunal, information was given about what was decided by the Saeima Bureau, I would like to inform you, my fellow Members, that the Saeima Bureau not only took a decision based on the Constitution and the parliamentary order, but also asked the Saeima's Legal Office to explain their rights and obligations to the applicants and to help possibly improve the request for a hearing. Therefore, I will read the written explanation of the House’s Office for Legal Affairs to the first representative, Mr Tatar. Thus: ‘The parliamentary presidency has received an application signed by you and 34 other Members requesting an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. By decision of 27 May 2021, the Saeima Presidium has refused to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, and by resolution, the Saeima's Legal Bureau is asked to provide you with a reply explaining the legal arguments for such a decision. Article 20 of the Satversme provides: The Saeima Presidium shall convene a sitting of the Saeima if the President of the State, the Prime Minister or not less than one third of the members of the Saeima so request. On the other hand, the first paragraph of Rule 38 of the Saeima Rules of Procedure states that the agenda to be discussed must be indicated in the request for an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima. The sitting of the Saeima shall be a parliamentary debate convened in a given manner, within which the Saeima shall exercise its legislative power, including the adoption of legislative acts (see para. Judgment of the Constitutional Court of 12 March 2021, No. Council Regulation (EEC, Euratom, ECSC) No 260/68 of 29 February 1968 laying down the Staff Regulations of Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities and instituting special measures temporarily applicable to officials of the Commission (OJ L 56, 4.3.1968, p. 1). The principle of the rule of law establishes that the law and rights are binding on every state authority, including the legislator. In a democratic republic, a parliament must respect the constitution and other laws, including those adopted by the parliament itself (see Judgment of the Constitutional Court of 3 February 2012, case No. Council Regulation (EC) No 659/1999 of 22 March 1999 laying down detailed rules for the application of Article 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (OJ L 83, 27.3.1999, p. 1). Thus, persons who, in accordance with Article 20 of the Satversme, are entitled to request that an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima be convened shall be obliged to respect both the competence of the Saeima established in the Constitution and the regulation on the cases to be examined during the sitting of the Saeima and the procedure for considering them included in the parliamentary order roll. The agenda of the sitting of the Saeima may include such issues as the draft law, the draft decision, as well as the draft decision to be considered in the procedure for an own-initiative proposal, the request, the report, as well as the statements and speeches to be heard. Each case to be included on the agenda of the sitting of the Saeima shall have a special examination procedure established in the order roll of the Saeima and, as previously stated, everyone shall be obliged to observe the procedure established by this law. Consequently, when examining a request to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, the Saeima Bureau is obliged to assess whether this request and the agenda of the meeting referred to in the application correspond to the competence conferred by the Saeima on it by the Constitution and the procedures set out in the parliamentary roll. In your request to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, it is indicated that the following agenda is to be examined: firstly, the report of Prime Minister Arturs Krišjānis Kariņš on the meeting of the Saeima’s decision “On progress of the 2021 World Championship with spectators in the hockey”; secondly, the report of the Minister of Health Daniels Pavluts on the progress made in reviewing existing restrictions for vaccinated people or persons who have become ill during the Covid-19; thirdly, the report of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Edgars Rinkēvičs on the progress made during the opening of the world hockey championship and the Latvian-Canadian Games during the Covid-19 pandemic. In assessing this agenda in the submission, we would like to draw attention to the fact that such a question on the agenda of the Saeima sitting as a report is not provided for in the Constitution or in the parliamentary order as a matter of order. It follows from your request to the Saeima to convene a meeting of the Saeima, that the Prime Minister, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should be heard at the meeting about their actions under certain circumstances. The issue of this kind of agenda is, by its very nature, in line with the Members' Affairs Institute, but the way in which Parliament exercises control over the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers is also laid down in the Constitution and in the parliamentary order. The order of the Saeima does not provide that the replies of the members of the Cabinet of Ministers to the questions of Members of the Saeima shall be given at the sitting of the Saeima. A separate question-and-answer session is foreseen for answers to Members' questions in the parliamentary order line, so you can receive explanations about the actions of the Cabinet members in the specific situation by asking them questions in the parliamentary order roll procedure. However, if the applicants have wished to express the Saeima's attitude on the actions of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in the specific circumstances, to consider the draft decision of the Saeima's own motion in the procedure for consideration of the parliamentary proposal, which expresses the Saeima's attitude in a particular case, the issue requires a document on which the Saeima is proposed to decide. No such document shall be attached to the application submitted. In the light of the foregoing, it is concluded that the agenda of the sitting referred to in the request of 35 Members of the Saeima to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima does not correspond to the form and order of reference of the issues to be discussed by the Saeima at the parliamentary session. Thus, when assessing the specific proposal to convene an extraordinary sitting of the Saeima, it must be declared incompatible with Article 20 of the Satversme and the first paragraph of Article 38 of the Seimas Rules of Procedure roll.” The next item on the agenda for today's sitting is "Review of draft laws". On the agenda - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education”, first reading. Member of the Commission for Education, Culture and Science Edgars Kucins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U16	Good evening, colleagues! At its meeting on 2 June, the Commission for Education, Culture and Science examined the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers (No. 1085/Lp13). The draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” is designed to ensure a full and results-oriented process of evaluation and accreditation of study directions. Maintaining the measures limiting the spread of infection, as well as the fact that the country has declared a secondary emergency, has not been able to carry out a full assessment and accreditation process for a long time. Two months are left to carry out the assessment and accreditation process until the date set for the accreditation schedule; this does not allow quality evaluation and accreditation of the fields of studies of universities and colleges and their corresponding study programmes to be ensured. Having said this, it is necessary to extend the period of accreditation of fields of study for all courses of study indicated in Section 48 and Section 48.1 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Higher Education. The Commission unanimously supported the draft law on amendments to the University College Law and asked for it to be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U17	The Commission is therefore asking for the draft law to be declared urgent. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Higher Education” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U18	On behalf of the Commission, I ask the Saeima to support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U19	Let's start a debate. Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U20	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, of course, I, too, supported both urgency and... I call for support for the draft law as a whole. But I hope that one century in the Ministry of Education and Science is over and that the new era will not start again with the same tradition. That is, maybe six months ago, we discussed a similar proposal. And in fact, the draft law is almost the same, but the numbers are changed... Dates. And again and again, we asked the same question: if indeed these dates, which are also in this draft law, will be sufficient for the accreditation process to be assessed, and if once again after some short time, there will be no need to adopt urgent amendments within one day, which... In fact, the Ministry of Education and Science could already have foreseen a responsible official. I repeat that I am calling for support for this draft law at first and second, final, readings. But the Saeima... Colleagues, do you really ever read what you approve? Do you really just do what you're told? At this point in time, I expect that solving the situation of the community... Although there is a commitment that the accreditation process can take place in a new or faster way and that the dates will not need to be changed again... So let's vote again on an old one, perhaps even for the third time... the same draft law... that these dates cannot be applied with a reserve or imposed more politely... That would be respect for our work. We talked a lot today, we also sang praises to the ministers who are leaving or coming, but we forgot one thing. Perhaps we should respect ourselves rather than teach others. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U21	I closed the debate. Mr. Kucin, on behalf of the Commission... Is that so?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U22	On behalf of the Commission, please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U23	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the first reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please set a deadline for the submission of proposals for second reading and the date of consideration... the date on which the draft law is to be examined at the second, final, reading session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U24	Colleagues, on behalf of the Commission, are asked not to set a deadline for the submission of proposals and to support the draft law at second, final, reading without re-examination by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-06-03-PT13-2265-U25	Are Members against the fact that today this draft law is also being examined in the second, final reading here, in the sitting of the Saeima? There is no objection by Members. Please call me! We will vote in favour of the second, final, reading of the draft law on amendments to the Law on Higher Education! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. Dear colleagues, we have therefore examined the entire agenda of the third remote emergency session of 3 June. I will also present to you the questions you have received. Members Zarins, Agešins, Rubiks, Orlovs and Niconovs have submitted a question to the Minister for Health Daniel Pavlutas “On additional information to be provided on parliamentary issues No. 223/J13 “On the situation in the health care system and public health in Latvia””. The question will therefore be referred to the Minister for Health, Daniel Pavilut. Members Ivars Zariņš, Valerijs Agešins, Ivans Klementjevs, Jānis Tutins and Arturs Rubiks have submitted the question “On measures to ensure the learning process in person” addressed to Anita Muižniece, Minister of Education and Science. This question will be referred to the Minister for Education and Science Anita Muižniece. Members Stepanenko, Sprūde, Švecova, Gobzem and Tavars have tabled a question to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Lithuania, Mr Pabrik, about vaccination of soldiers. The question will be referred to the Minister of Defence for a reply. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to inform you that the Saeima Bureau has received an application from Member Mārtiņš Steinas, Vjačeslavas Dombrovska, Inese Voika, Ilmars Dūriss and Marija Golubeva to declare a break following the examination of the agenda of the third remote extraordinary session of the Saeima on 3 June 2021 by 9 a.m. on 10 June this year. Colleagues, we must vote on this proposal. No Member has applied to speak for or against. Please call me! Please vote for the adjournment... After the meeting was closed... June 10, 9 a.m. Please vote mode! It's not about - 74, it's against - 5, it's not. Consequently, a break is announced until 9 a.m. on June 10. Only registration of participants. It has been successful. Colleagues! As a result, I declare today, June 3, the third remote sitting of the Saeima to be closed. Nice evening for you! Goodbye.
