ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U1	Good afternoon, dear colleagues! This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The first section is entitled ‘ Statements from the Bureau’. The Saeima Presidium proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Unemployment Insurance” presented by the Cabinet of Ministers be referred to the Commission of Social and Labour Affairs, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members have objections? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. The second item on the agenda is "Provision of draft legislation". Draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Anti-Corruption - Member Vita Anda Steel. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U2	Hello, dear colleagues! The draft law has been drafted and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, and the draft law is intended to regulate trade conditions. Article 1 thereof includes a delegation to the Cabinet of Ministers to lay down requirements for trade and other types of economic services. Such requirements are also currently laid down in the Cabinet of Ministers Regulations of June 9, 2020 No. 360 ‘Eliminal safety measures to limit the spread of Covid-19 infection’. Chapter II1 ‘Requisitions on trade’ of this Regulation lays down detailed conditions for the organisation of trade. On the other hand, the Cabinet Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “On Promulgation of the Emergency” provides for the right of the State Police and Municipal Police to take a written decision on closing of a trading venue for up to seven days in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Procedure Law. Such a right is also intended to be envisaged after the end of the emergency by granting the right to close a trading venue for admission to trading venues for a period of up to seven days in the event of a breach of epidemiological safety requirements in the provision of economic services which may cause immediate and substantial damage to public health interests. Provision is also made for administrative penalties for non-compliance with the requirements for the provision of trade or other economic services. It is imposed on a natural person from 2 to 400 fine units, and on a legal person from 28 to 1000 fine units. Such punishment has already been imposed for non-compliance with restrictions on isolation, self- isolation, quarantine or home quarantine or assembly, as well as for administrative liability under the Law on Epidemiological Safety. At its meeting on 24 March this year, the Commission supported the draft law and decided to request it to be declared urgent. I ask the Saeima to declare the draft law urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U3	Mr Gobzem, do you want to talk about the urgency of this draft law? The Bible says: “Do not be afraid. ” — Deb. Mr Gobzems: "Yes, I want to talk about urgency." ) Name of Member Aldim Gobzem. Please! Please apply again. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U4	Hello, the whole of Latvian society! What I would like to say to you is that no society law has to be urgent. And the state of emergency must stop at all. Let me explain the reason. I applied yesterday for television, reading Delfus, that all those who believe that they don't need an emergency to be reanimated in the comma department, in the epicentre itself, and then they'll just see. I applied for the best hospital in Latvia, Stradini, for sanitation in the community department, wishing to go to help save people's lives in the epicentre, to wash even the floors. I received a refusal because this chapter is half-empty. The largest and best hospital is a semi-empty community department. There's no need for employees. Number one. Number two. In the largest hospital, there are 20 patients in the community - 20! All over Latvia there are 68 severe patients for today - 68! And at the time when 68 patients have made a collapse of the health care system and hundreds of thousands - hundreds of thousands! - a person suffering from it (with all these critique restrictions), you still want to impose additional restrictions, close something again, think again how to close Easter or some other time! These are dry numbers, you can check them. Dry numbers - 68 seriously ill, including mostly other chronic diseases, and for the very elderly hundreds of thousands... Of which hundreds go to psychological hospitals, hundreds commit suicide, hundreds and thousands do not receive normal health care during this time! Thousands have lost their jobs and income! Thousands have depression! What urgency? It's all afero! The apher, which you, dear people, are imposing! And to you on TV and from the Saeima, the whole coalition of it, and Delfos tells you that those who do not believe - come to work! I officially applied, and I replied officially that we do not need staff in this chapter, because there is no one to take care of. And these are facts, it's not a fiction. Everything that's happening here... Dear people, I recommend you read, pick up... You can find the verbatim reports of the Constitutional Meeting and see in which cases the creators of the Satversme wanted it at all, and what was the idea of the implementation of the state of emergency and the work of the Saeima in the state of emergency. No words about such situations! Nobody! There's no idea! It's just about the state of war. No war state - 68 serious cases no war state! And there's no urgency to ban anything again on Easter. The only reason why you sit at home, dear people, the only reason is... Two in fact, one is to steal to get to know everything that's happening. Right away Dūrīte will come and defend the pickup of money again. The other reason is because you need a hockey championship. How I'm sitting here! And now let's give the name Dūrīte, who has already decimated all these cucumbers, tomatoes, herring in his fur for half a million researches and defended the vaccination office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U5	Name to Member Ilmar Duritis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U6	Hello, very honourable chair of the sitting! Dear Members, colleagues. Members! Yes, I would call for urgent support, as requested by the Commission. And I'd call you not to listen to this... It's hard to figure out how to really name it. But, on the facts, I just want to say that the information that the previous speaker said is very one-sided. We have 688 patients in hospitals today and... Covide patients directly, and 69 with severe disease progression between them. That means... This is a large number, which means that these people are in resuscitation units and at artificial ventilation, most likely. In general, hospitals report that, in view of the fact that other people also get worse in substance... because of restrictions on the treatment of chronic patients... Kovid’s health condition deteriorates, and in general the resuscitation units are quite severely overloaded in hospitals. It's not just about the community's disease, we still have all the other diseases, and we really see that they're also getting worse lately. So I call you not to listen to this demagogy and this... Yeah, I'm having a hard time finding some epithets... and, of course, take into account that not everyone can be fit for such an important task as hospital care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U7	One Member has spoken about the urgency, one against. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on communicable Management” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 55, for - 20, for - 5. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U8	So, colleagues, go on. The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I also call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U9	Let's start a debate. Name to Member Aldi Gobzem. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U10	I'm going to keep up on what Douritis, just a pick-up lobbyist, said. So in hospitals today (you can also open a message for you to have official information) there are 68 severe patients, most of whom are with chronic diseases, old people, most - very old people. This only means that if 68 people in Latvia are unable to take care of the health care system, then everyone in Latvia must be released. Everybody! If the country is almost, I don't know, one and a half million or a million people and 68 people are unable to take care of... What can we talk about here at all? That's the number one. Number two. Mr. Durishi mentioned a number of 600 people. Yes, these are people who have most temperatures. Temperature! They're not in the resuscitation, Mr. Durish! The third thing. Mr. Durishi, let you know. I agreed to take up sanitary responsibilities at Stradins Hospital in another chapter, and on Monday I had a meeting at Stradins Hospital, Mr. I was refused to be part of a community department because there's no staff there, because there's nothing to do with it. The draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 infection management law” is not about the fact that people with any disease are in resuscitation at all, but only about the community infection. This state of emergency is simply due to the terrible suffering of the community and the terrible death of people. Yes, unfortunately, you also die. Myrtle. I agree. That can be it. But this apparent disproportionateness is 68 people against hundreds and millions... It is clear that there are some tens of thousands who have got used to this power and enjoy the fruits that can now be enjoyed by spending and spending money, since you are at that university, Mr Durish, where you are doing research on the herring in your fur, or at a vaccination office that has nothing you can do to protect, Mr Durish, where you receive five thousand euros of wages, and we are last place all the time because you are stealing like a gang of thieves at the expense of all the people. If the most complex medical manipulations at the site - Stradini (the most serious cases are usually carried to Stradini or Gailezer)... If there are 20... 20 in the largest hospital, not 1020, but 20! - Then what pandemic can we talk about? Yeah, people are sick. People have been ill every year, and if we look at statistics, fewer people died in 2020 than five other years in the last 10 years. You don't believe me? Go to the website of the Central Statistical Office, enter the website of the Disease Prevention and Control Centre and read it. And if you don't believe me, go into any statistics that serve the world, the health indicators of the world, compare Latvia, in which really it wasn't the first wave, but there have been all kinds of pointless restrictions - all kinds of, all kinds of restrictions! - and Sweden, where restrictions are not in fact, do not have to walk in masks for no one mandatory, all can go to work, sit in restaurants. Look at those curves! They are identical, in fact identical. Mr. Dūriss, I would like to point out to you that children in Latvia are losing their mind because of all of this. They're going crazy! You can ask any psychiatrist, who's doing psychooneirological dispanser, who's dealing with psychiatrists. You destroy our future, our children destroy you. You can't forgive it. And the number of their children is much higher than the 68 people who are in a heavy condition. You destroy families. You destroy the country because, in order to get to the ATM, you have to take a basket in your hand - it's all your intellectual capacity, because the rest of the section is only directed where Šchipčinskis, that is, Rukšāne-Šchipčinsk's husband, has to give up something from your party again. All the people have seen Karini's government sittings. It is not even tragic; it is tragic. You are Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Mr Durish, and you should not lie from the parliamentary tribunal, but tell us what the real statistics are. And these are 68 people this morning. I think that what is happening in the country at the moment is a real coup d'état; it is a real attempt to destroy a people, a clear attempt to expose, destroy and deform. It is a measure of degradation of young people and children, and it has nothing to do with health care and the fight for human lives and human health. All those wise speakers who now defend it all, I would recommend to you - on March 18, the professors of Harvard, Stanford, Oxford University have met to discuss these issues, professors of medicine. The full Internet is with it. And what did they say? They said that all these restrictions do more harm to everything that happens. The whole society understands this. I hope, I sincerely hope, that the Members of this House who will continue this afer will sit one day in prison, in real prison. Because this is the time when either they are us, dear people... either they're us or we're them. There will be no compromise here. When this madness ends and it ends, then we cruelly... as cruel as they destroy Latvia, as cruel as they destroy the future of children, as cruel as they destroy the business, as cruelly against them, because the Criminal Law contains an article called Crime Against humanity... Crimes against humanity involve both the imposition of substantive restrictions on the movement of people and various other activities, and what happens when 68 seriously ill people are in a country with at least 1.5 million inhabitants. It's illegal. Obviously and clearly illegal! You think today that you will have nothing to do with it. Many have thought so, many have thought in history that there will be nothing about it, but there will be. As I sit here and promise I will! And those stitches that spend half a million herring in their fur for research that makes absolutely no sense... That half million could be returned to children or to the same sanitary hospital in Stradins, but it had to be deciphered simply, to divide the money... or those who, through the Ruksan-Schipčinsk man, will now make them... How we will live in summer. Someone's gonna be released again with a... advertising, and that's it. What you are doing is a crime against humanity, a crime against your country. You lie in your eyes, you lie about the state of the health care system. This is proved by the fact, as I said, that I was offered to work for sanitation, and I will agree, but not in the community chapter, which is half an empty. And I'll light all your crimes to the end. Crimes against Latvia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U11	The name of the Member, John Adamson. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U12	Hello, colleagues! I am going to talk about the draft law and I also call on the chair of the sitting to stick to the political roll of order of the Saeima. The debate is taking place on the draft law "Amendments to the Covid-19 law on the management of the spread of infection". All that my colleague said is very interesting, but the way in which it relates to the bill was not entirely clear to me. In the Commission we had a very interesting debate today, a very sharp debate. Questions were asked, and... This draft law is driven by the Ministry of Economics, and the parliamentary secretary could not really answer the questions asked. What is the nature of these amendments? The nature of the amendments is very simple: the local and state police have the right to close any trading institution, to take a decision if any violations have been found... what is involved in the emergency and not only. Go on. What penalties and what scissors do we expect? For a private person - from 2 to 400, for a legal person - to 1000 units. Then the question is, why do we even have the local police? Will it help the trader, or will their main rule be to punish any infringement? Is Help Needed or Not Needed? Next. What has been the subject of this draft law? Look at the annotation, there is a clear and clear statement that this draft law has been agreed by the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. the State Police, and the Ministry of Economics. Although I asked one other question: why, then, those shops that work, the shops of construction materials... Why is there a restriction on goods up to now? No one can really answer that for three months. Just mention that when an emergency comes to an end, everything will end and people will finally be able to go to the countryside and do something about it. Where is it going? The fact is that we give every policeman - not only a state policeman, but also a municipal policeman - an opportunity to decide whether to close a trading venue. In addition, the explanatory memorandum to the bill states that it will in no way affect the budget and so on. Well, these are the final benevolences, apologies! I can't even see what's urgent. We voted, there will be an urgent draft law, it is already urgent, you will adopt at first reading, but what are you voting on, colleagues? What is the nature of the matter? Are we helping or not? How, then, does the Ministry of Economics help traders? With these huge penalties? When people need some goods, they stop from one shop to another, look for where they can buy it or... cannot be purchased. I strongly call for this draft law to be rejected; it is not in any way acceptable. This is neither a thoughtful, harmonised procedure nor a planned procedure. There is or there is no violation – this is established by the State or municipal police. Not even the Health Inspectorate, which should then be present, so that they can assess the situation - the situation of irregularities that can be eliminated immediately on the ground, if any. And any businessman will agree. But not in this way, colleagues, that we are adopting the law, imposing huge fines and then wonder why the economy will not develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U13	Name of Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics Jurģis Miezainius. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U14	Dear President, Honourable Members! Yes, this bill is perhaps not the most pleasant thing, but in answer to Mr Adamson's questions, with which it is agreed and with which the adoption process has been, it should be remembered that the community's norms are being established in a special procedure under the Crisis Management Board, the Operational Steering Group. I can read only one thing about the involvement of society and organisations. Composition. Operational Management Group (January 18), which presented the concept of safe trade developed by the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which also provided for such a norm on punishment... Let us say that such a measure is to be applied. So - Director of the State Chancellery, State Secretary of the Ministry of Defence, State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, State Secretary of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, State Secretary of the Ministry of the Interior, State Secretary of the Ministry of Education and Science, State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, State Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, Apologies, Representative, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, State Secretary of the Latvian Municipalities Union, representative of the Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, State Police representative, State Border Guard, Fire and Rescue Service representative, President of the Latvian Free Trade Union, Director General of the Latvian Employers' Confederation, Chairman of the Board of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, representatives of the Latvian Chamber of Commerce and Industry. This has been one of the rounds of harmonisation. From now on, this draft law... For example, the concept of safe trade was viewed in general at the meetings of the Cabinet of Ministers, where representatives of the Employers' Confederation of Latvia and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Latvia were present. This norm may not be pleasant, it is preventive, but today the police representative mentioned in the meeting of the Commission that this norm is not applied according to cost, this norm is applied only as a result of a clear and nihilistic attitude and in such a way that the entire economic activity is not stopped, but only the section that concerns the moment, its own store. Control, too... It controls what is going on inside the store, how they comply with the requirements of safe trading. Such a package of measures is necessary to ensure that our citizens have access to services, including trade, in a secure way. Once again I can say yes, I'm not a fan either... or else I would like to punish someone for something, but we now have a pandemic situation, and we together, as a society, have to find solutions for how entrepreneurs can work safely. That's what we hear about here in the Saeima. We are looking for solutions for how entrepreneurs can operate safely. Safe operations are based on responsibility and control and, if necessary, on certain forced means. But again, these aren't... is being used against anyone who is being coerced. No, no. Anyone, including a representative of the State, shall be responsible for their decisions and the adoption of abusive decisions shall, however, be criminally punishable. It can't be that someone just goes and shuts someone down for something irrelevant. No, it won't. I call for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U15	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U16	Dear colleagues, Mr. Miezin, you are absolutely right! Bad decision making is a criminal offence and should be borne in mind both for you and for all those people, except perhaps for the social partners that you listed here at the Saeima sitting. You should also be responsible for these mystical 25 square meters that have been encircled to trade regulations. You certainly know who has encircled them, and you certainly understand what might have happened to someone from that. Mr Miezaiņš, I really regret that you may have, well, to try to demolish this quail, but you are not ultimately in this position, unfortunately, you are not in this position, because you do not understand what you have done to the economy and to the people at large. You named January. So in January you discussed the concept of safe trade. When all traders were put on their knees, when everyone was hoping that perhaps the horrors you put on all the small traders would end. They would have been prepared to agree to anything, even the tenth court, to you, Mr. Miezaiņš, and I do not know anything else, so that only you would allow them to work. And now you manipulate the fact that, behold, all the parties involved have gladly agreed that they, traders, will be punished for every minor violation. It's shameless! Of course, a person on the roads could agree with a lot. You were able to figure out even different rules for traders who shouldn't have been done yet - in what colors they should paint, who should be looking at and so on. You can do this safely at the moment, because we see your absolutely pointless and silly sittings of the Cabinet of Ministers... we see that you are doing a lot bad to our people there. We see that its added value from your work is one damage. You are not trying to save the economy, you are simply sinking it with every decision ever deeper, further, and what you have brought to the Saeima now - bring it back! It's just a shouting shame. You should have come today with an amendment that you open everything up, laying down the rules how many people should be if you need those rules so terriblely. But we know there will be revaccination every other month and... that's not going to happen. You have, of course, made society and all people... you have simply entered into destruction, and now they depend on your decisions. We will encourage you to give up these three articles. We will encourage you to give up this shameless Cabinet of Ministers, from this uprising, which will immediately last for more than a year. It's not normal. The Cabinet of Ministers must do its work, and Saeima must do its work. We must not be subject to executive power. We can't! We see that this law, which will operate after the emergency has been lifted, will have even more pigori. We see that the Cabinet of Ministers will have the right to impose various restrictions, hiding them in the Cabinet of Ministers regulations. And then people will be threatened with the punishment for any violation of restrictions that the Cabinet of Ministers has come up with in its sittings, where you listen and rejoice... They will be punished if they can't read what you've decided there. We are also encouraged to give up this. Stop suffering people! Stop hurting all the merchants! Stop hurting the kids! Stop punishing people who want to work and earn money and pay you taxes. I just don't know what, because you don't deserve it, you don't deserve any euro of your money. You have now brought the January proposals to the Saeima. And now it's probably... you've agreed that if you agree that you're hurt, then we'll open you maybe sometime after Easter or on April 6, 7. That's what you've agreed to, huh? That's what you've agreed? It's just... I can't even say in words how much you have plagued all people. You don't know, no one writes to you anymore, no one calls you, no tell you how people are living at the moment, we know all this. I call on you not to support this bill, to vote against it and to table appropriate amendments, dear colleagues, opposition, if you are still there for your life. Thank you. I call for no support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U17	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U18	Thank you. Mr. Mieziņš is in his repertoire, to be honest. It was possible to read the whole book of government - with all the positions that were included there. It seems to me, however, that this is not about who will make these decisions, but about the quality of the decisions, about the smartness of the decisions, about how close they are to real life, or about how they are to real life. Today, there is the issue of punishment. Punctuation for something is not a big art. Penalty Time... it should have been predicted more quickly - when it was just beginning. Now it's too late. That's the point one. Two points. Who are these punishers in this case? You plan to grant this right to the State Police and Local Government Police, who will determine whether the trader violates or does not violate the rules. I think you probably haven't been in the store for the last year because if you enter... Even in a supermarket... You can look... you can adjust the number of baskets, the number of trolleys at the door, but what happens next when people enter the store? They are not scattered throughout the territory, they are concentrated where the goods they have brought to the store are located. Maybe there won't be those two meters... Maybe then you'll have to close this store and punish the merchant that, behold, he hasn't driven the old people, the young people, all those who come to shop? Restrictions on trade by product group... about the premises of shops and everything else - it's not what even the Infectologists are talking about. They're talking about other things. They're talking about security means, about security distances... and so on, and so on. This is what can really reduce the spread of infection, not what the officials offer, especially the nonprofessionals like you. I call for this draft law not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U19	Name to Member Viktor Valain. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U20	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Dear colleagues, Today... Now, listening to the speech of the Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Economics, I am so bright... came immediately to mind these similarities with the meeting of the Request Commission that took place today morning, where there was an opportunity to listen to another kind of... such a straightening for... and I would call it collective irresponsibility, which is now increasingly taking over government work... and I don't want it taken over by the Saeima. And this irresponsible... What does it mean? Through the fact that they are responsible for the issues... They're gone for us right now. We asked a very simple question - the way in which it came to that list - about the list of officials who should receive vaccines as a priority. And what did we get? Collective decision. Command. Recommendations from the European Commission and all such statements, decision-making bodies... There's a coalition right now... this group is the decision maker. And now, Mr. Miezaiņš... with all due respect, but you too... Instead of taking some kind of responsibility for the draft laws brought, the decisions taken... Instead of having any minister take responsibility for the document that he has brought to the Saeima politically and offers Members to vote, the Head of Government begins various reservations and lists of all kinds... Representative of the Ministry of Finance... Oh, my God! There's still a whole series of... the persons who participated there are also... Where, then, is that responsibility? Who then is the one who takes responsibility? And there was a situation, as was the case with the purchase of vaccines: in the end, nobody was responsible. Nobody is responsible... such a tragic error of decision. Ministers released - in my view, this is not a responsibility. It is such an investigation and ridicule as a concept of responsibility. It's not taking responsibility! Also right now, with this bill... There is a whole range of different institutions here, but it would be better if there were someone very concrete political... Minister, who comes and assumes... and discuss the benefits to society of supporting this particular draft law. If we are talking about the specific draft law, we in the Group of the Greens/Family Union will also, for the second reading, submit proposals for the exclusion of the third part. I think it's taking... Exclusion of the third paragraph of Article 50... what is offered here... In my opinion, too, shoppers are allowed to work if they are allowed to work and if they are working... we should build some kind of mutual trust, a mutual agreement with the industry - the industry should be allowed to work under certain conditions and not to bring them into the stress that it is that if you serve in a store... if you have not too big a shop where one or two people can enter, and if you serve one person... that you don't have to pay another person who follows it. Colleagues, people find it quite difficult to organise all of this and to constantly worry about these things from the businessman's point of view, where else, if you get a penalty. Automatic then, well, it didn't like the whole thing like that. In my opinion, it is necessary to work with preventive methods, and that is the best way to agree, not with the methods of punishment... We will make such a proposal, but now... Overall, the Group of the Greens/Family Union has decided to abstain from this vote. We call for the adoption of such a draft law not to be supported. If this is done, we will put forward our proposals to the next reading on which parts are definitely not to be supported, which is why, at the moment, the draft law as a whole, from our point of view, would not be acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U21	The name of Member John Adamson for the second time. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U22	Good afternoon, colleagues! I would, however, call on the parliamentary secretary, and also all the members of the government, first of all, to finally read the law on emergency situations, so that there are no problems in their treatment. Secondly, the Parliamentary Secretary... Mister, I don't know and I'm not interested in what you've met, where you've met, where you've talked about, and what you've talked about. I'm reading an annotation. The sixth part - public participation and communication activities. Everywhere you are written there - the project does not affect this area. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Economics in cooperation with the State Police, the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice. You can tell what you want, but you should not lie to Parliament about what you have not done. Read your own annotation, and then maybe any questions will fall back on you. And what has been discussed here... I think we are in a deep crisis because we have Heads of State who do not even understand what this is about. Once again, I call for no support for what is not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U23	Name to Member Ivars Zarins. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U24	Good evening, everybody! For collective irresponsibility, we will still have the opportunity to debate today when we look at the request for the purchase of legendary vaccines, how vaccines were not purchased. If we were talking about this particular case, then I would really be very interested in... and I would like the commission responsible to apply, in which this draft law was debated, to apply to those people who are willing to support this draft law, and to tell me how they see how this law will actually work, how its legal provisions will be implemented in practice, how they can be implemented at all - those on which it is about... those that you propose to approve at the moment. That is, I have the feeling that we are talking about different things, that people have not read at all, that they have not studied what they will confirm. I understand that this is a general order for us now in the Saeima - we confirm everything on the blind, simply high-speed train: just drop the bill on the table, it must be confirmed immediately, because the Saeima is not the place where something should be decided if it is decided in another place. If, however, this is not the case, I call on Members to apply for a specific explanation from the committee responsible. So if we're talking about Article 49... This is particularly true: if there is no internal control system for the provision of economic services at the point of sale, or if there is no internal control system for the provision of economic services... system for the implementation of epidemiological safety measures and it may cause immediate and substantial damage to public health interests, the State Police or the municipal police may, in accordance with the procedure laid down by law, take a written decision on closing a trading venue for the reception of visitors up to seven days. The next paragraph states that the decision referred to in the first paragraph shall take effect at the time of its notification and shall be enforceable without delay. Here, I think there are a number of things that ask questions. Firstly, I have a question as to how this National Police or Municipal Police Officer will be able to determine the adequacy of the implementation of epidemiological safety measures and how serious and immediate damage is caused in the public health interest? That's the point one. Second. How will it be recorded, so that it is sufficient proof that a decision to close a trading venue is taken so that the State will not then lose its status in legal proceedings? As I have already mentioned, when this bill was passed on, it will not be enough here with a photograph - one person, say, a mask or an unaccepted basket. That's not enough. So how will this infringement be proven? Likely, this is the decision that you want to make now... the decision to stop an enterprise (in the case of a shop) for several days... It is clear that such a decision will be appealed against as it will cause serious damage. In my opinion, what you may not have really understood to the end is what the consequences of such a decision will mean. I have a question: if there is any legal action, how it will be envisaged... how can it be demonstrated that such an infringement has occurred? If we haven't gone all this chain... And... Yeah, one more thing, how this law... What is most embarrassing me is really embarrassing throughout this event - that this decision will be enforceable immediately. How will this work in practice? You now lay down such a rule of law, you foresee it... How can this decision be implemented without delay? If in the store, what... This responsible person who will submit this decision... It will not already be the manager of the company, it will not be the owner of the company. Such a decision - to terminate the business - is, as a minimum, the management board, if not at the level of the owner. How can you do this immediately if these owners are not on the spot in the store? How will the law then be implemented? So, these three things. First, in what way it will be possible to identify the infringement and to record it with sufficient evidence, so that it can then be defended in court... Is that so? Secondly, how can this decision be implemented? And, thirdly, how can you defend it in court? I think... If the people who accepted it were with any, even the smallest, understanding what they were doing, then... You should now apply and explain it. If not, then in principle what is happening... If no one applies, it is simply a proof that we decide again how... that the Saeima is used simply as a blind voting machine to decide on the dull... anything you put in front of it. I call for these statements to be rebutted, or for them to be confirmed by my silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U25	I closed the debate. Please! On behalf of the Commission, Mrs Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U26	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading. I call on the Saeima to support this.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U27	Please call me! We will vote in favour of the draft law “Amendments to the Covid-19 Law on Disease Management”! Please, let's vote! For - 57, for - 24, for - 9. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a deadline for the proposals.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U28	The deadline for proposals. The deadline for proposals - half an hour, that is, 18.10 p.m.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U29	Consequently, the deadline for the proposals is 18.10 on 24 March this year. Thank you. At the Saeima sitting, please determine, Mrs. Steel.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U30	Consideration at the Saeima sitting - tomorrow, that is, on 25 March this year.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U31	Review at the Saeima sitting on 25 March this year. Thank you. The next item is the examination of the draft decision. Draft decision on the order of 18 March 2021 of the Cabinet of Ministers 169 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 ‘Proclaiming an emergency’. Member of the Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and Prevention of Corruption Juris Rancāns. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U32	Good evening, colleagues! The Commission for Defence, Home Affairs and the Prevention of Corruption in today's meeting, thus, at its meeting on 24 March 2021, examined certain amendments made by the Cabinet of Ministers to the announced order on the announcement of an emergency situation. This time the amendments are very short and laconic - prolong the working hours of the religious place in Easter. I'll call it a little bit more concrete, it's not very long. So it was previously established that religious places... On March 20, 21, 22, and 23, work was scheduled to begin at 5.30 a.m. On March 27 and March 28, religious activities shall finish no later than 24.00 or 0.00. At night from April 3 to April 4, the work of religious activities shall be completed no later than 1.00 a.m. I would remind you that all the restrictions imposed, the epidemiological safety requirements, the distance requirements, the requirement to use masks, as well as the requirement that these religious places be fulfilled by up to 20 percent, are still valid. These amendments only regulate working time. We heard relevant specialists and government representatives from the Commission, and the Commission considered these amendments to be proportionate, necessary and supportive of the situation. On behalf of the Commission, I will ask for support for the draft decision drawn up by the Commission. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-24-PT13-2222-U33	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision “On Cabinet of Ministers Order of 18 March 2021 No. 169 amending Order of 6 November 2020 No. 655 “Advertising the Emergency”! Please, let's vote! For - 80, for - 2 and for - 1. The draft decision was adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reviewed the agenda for the remote emergency sitting on 24 March this year. I would like to inform you that the agenda announced by the Saeima Bureau at its meeting on 18 March will be discussed tomorrow, i.e. 25 March. The agenda is now under consideration. The registration of the presence of Members has also expired. So I closed today's sitting.
