ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U1	Hello, honourable Members! The agenda for the Saeima's remote emergency session of 17 March 2021 will be discussed. The agenda shall consist of the transmission of the draft law to the commissions and the first reading. The Parliamentary Bureau proposes that the draft law on "Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Populations" presented by the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission be referred to the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection by Members. The draft law has been passed on to the Commission. We are starting to examine the draft law at first reading. So - draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents”, first reading. Member Juris Puce, on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U2	President-in-Office. High honourable Members! Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Let's work with bill No. 980/Lp13 - Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations. The said draft law is designed to comply with the judgement of the Constitutional Court of 12 March 2021 in the case No. 2020-30-106. And specifically, paragraph 35.4 of the Annex to the aforementioned Law on Administrative Territories and Residents, which has recognised that it is not in conformity with the Satversme of the Republic of Latvia. I would remind you that in this case the Constitutional Court examined... so to say, it is the first joint case on compliance of the law with the Constitution. These include 19 further requirements from different municipalities. In general, in this judgment, the Constitutional Court recognises that the administrative territorial reform has been prepared... and the objective set for this reform has been justified, that is, serves the needs of Latvian citizens and the common good of Latvian society. The Constitutional Court also recognises that the established criteria for the establishment of administrative territories have been appropriate and those which contribute to achieving the objective. The decisions which have been adopted according to these criteria are, according to the Constitutional Court, also in compliance with the Satversme. At the same time, it must be recognised that in this judgment the Constitutional Court points out that in those cases where the Saeima has departed from these criteria it has not always given sufficient reasoning, and in the particular case it admits that addition of Skulte Parish to the newly created Saulkrasti municipality has not been sufficiently justified. Upon entry into force of the judgment of the Constitutional Court... At the moment it happens that the relevant norm... Point 35.4 of the Annex has already become obsolete, and Skulte municipality as an administrative unit is currently not included in any municipality. So the population of the... People of Skulte Parish do not have the right to participate.... it is held that there is no right to participate in municipal elections... either active or passive rights... by vote or candidacy. To address this problem, the Administrative Territorial Reform Commission met yesterday, 16 March, and examined the draft law... a proposal based, of course, on experts from the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and the Legal Bureau of the Saeima. This draft law actually deals with the... such a limited draft law that deals specifically with this major problem, but generally it happens - such amendments are incorporated into the text... It is established that the relevant parish, Skulte parish, is attached to Limbažu municipality, thus fulfilling the spirit and content of the judgment of the Constitutional Court... and compliance with the application, which is satisfied with the Constitutional Court. Taking into account these changes, it is no longer necessary to have Section 14(3) of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations, which provided that Limbažu Municipality and Saulkrasti Municipality were to re-allocate the property of the municipality in relation to Skulte Parish, because of course Skulte parish would also remain in the composition of the new Limbažu Municipality. In the judgment of the Constitutional Court it is also established... In its judgment, the Constitutional Court pointed out that only general considerations were made regarding the development potential of the new Saulkrasti municipality in both discussions and discussions within the Commission, rather than providing specific information based on research. In order to deal with this, it is proposed to provide in paragraph 29 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law an obligation for the Cabinet of Ministers to perform... by submitting a report on changes in the socio-economic situation of the administrative regions of municipalities... to be supplemented by an evaluation carried out and a study carried out... research-based information on the development potential of the Saulkrasti region, and it would be presented together with this first report... The report of the Cabinet of Ministers to the Saeima on the results of administrative territorial reform. And finally, using the possibility that the bill... the law is open, there is a proposal to correct one technical inaccuracy that is allowed by this law. In fact, with the law, the cities of Ādažu, Mārupe and Ķekava have established the status of the city, but there has been a technical defect - it is not specified in the annex to the draft law. To remedy this, this proposal has been tabled... together with this draft law. In the Commission, this proposal was examined extensively yesterday. The meeting was attended by all the members of the Commission, as well as several interested parties - the Latvian Municipal Union and representatives of the Ministry, of course... as well as three representatives of interested municipalities - Limbaži municipality, existing municipality of Saulkrasti municipality and existing municipality of Sēja municipality - were invited; managers of all these municipalities took part, they also took part in the committee meeting, expressed their views. All three heads of government conceptually supported the drafting of the law... the tender. That's why the Commission as a whole... not only because, but also, of course, to address this issue... but that is why the commission decided to support this draft law - both its preparation and this draft law... at first reading. The Commission also decided to grant urgency to this draft law. I ask the Saeima to support the urgent provision of a bill.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U3	On the urgency issue, Members have not applied to speak. Please call me! We will vote for the urgent recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Areas and Residents”! Please, let's vote! For - 87, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent. The Commission has asked to support the draft law at first reading. Members have applied for a debate. Let us start a debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U4	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Colleagues! This situation and why we are deciding on these issues at all today. It is very important to understand that the Constitutional Court, examining... and as the head of the commission on behalf of the Commission also tried to justify these rulings of the Constitutional Court... I'd like to highlight a few things. Of course, the rulings of the Constitutional Court must not be criticised, it would not be correct, they must be respected. I too, of course, respect this, but I cannot ignore the situation that... The Constitutional Court invites experts from various areas - it invited experts from various areas, not anyone has imposed them - who had very broad arguments in the debate, expressed the views of others, but in the ruling I was unable to find any kind of explanation, where the Constitutional Court has tried in some way to rebut this other opinion. Therefore, in my view, the decision itself is one thing, but in my opinion, the explanation of the decision is very weak and mutual in this case... in several places conflicts with what they have concluded. There are several things here. One is, of course, about these economic justifications and about various reasonings that are then justified and that are not justified, which can be expanded. At the same time, here... Also in the creation of the Saulkrasti district, which was in the Commission, I think in some ways that it was enough, because if it was not enough, then the question is: was it worse than the pieces of paper that were submitted to us by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development? I don't think so. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development had prepared Excel tables, where they had written that two plus two were four... and a future perspective, that this "four" will be much better for the population... Colleagues, that's absolutely... It is not any argument that it should have been! Like this... conditional... Saulkrasti Municipality... When we... in this commission it was created, there was argumentation, and it was no less than a gram than another... Like... as a government argument. In this respect, it suggests that in a way the Constitutional Court has gone and so... Members... has actually restricted Members' right to take a decision on the basis of their own convictions and on the basis of their own arguments, because what is then the arguments on which it should then be based?... Is that so? I think that when we look at this bill at second reading, we will hear a series of new interesting arguments for one or the other solution that could appear here, and I think each one of them is valuable, and each one of them is visible. But where is the greatest contradiction in itself... in this report by the Constitutional Court, which we shall immediately address in a way - that is, the democratic representation... about what the President of Latvia has said... about these wanted ones... on the elected organs, which should be in the municipal administration, which... The Constitutional Court itself also recognised that economic arguments cannot be stronger than democratic arguments. And in this law, the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents, the latina of democracy is essential – essential! - reduced by the formation of large regions. The initial offer meant that Saulkrasti were part of the district of Adaži, although we all understand that these are completely different territories with different interests, but that, of course, it is hardly... In a more general context, the whole administrative territorial reform as such... That huge mistake that has been made here... I personally think the next municipalities... The next Saeima will correct these mistakes and these areas will have to be divided, because any attempt to put this democracy back through the instruments proposed by the new local government law - that is, it's an instigation and self-mation. Nothing is, by nature, offered. Such involvement of the parish board and different citizens... instruments of all kinds (and I will talk a lot about them in the context of the law of local governments) already exist at present, they are. And they are much wider and more user-friendly than the model now being offered... What do you offer? as forced to introduce... This, in my opinion, is an African-style democracy which we are currently offering to the Power to prevent the main parade, which is a weakening of democracy, for this reform, which the Constitutional Court itself has recognised in this judgment... and by saying that the government, together with the Saeima, will resolve it... The Saeima... The government is now proposing an African model that citizens can choose, but then the central government will approve it. I don't know, I haven't worked at the time, but I'm too young... There's been something like that in the Soviet Union, that people were able to choose something, so to elect something, and then the central authority, which somewhere... I don't know, in Moscow or where they were... Then they confirmed whether John and Peter were good enough or not. Currently, the local government law offers this exactly. People can choose some of their representatives - there Liene, Jānis, Pēteris will now represent the opinion of the Saulkrasti people in one of the largest regions... Well, as an example... and then that's the big dome... they will then confirm - fit them or not. Colleagues, this, in my opinion, does not meet such normal democratic standards. The standards of democracy would be met if a municipality were legitimately elected. In this case, as the President wished... and the Prime Minister has also stressed this... that they see is in a common sense that you have to go to it... It is only unfortunately not reflected in any regulation at present. If they were elected parish associations... I don't care what... so-called zero level municipalities with a certain level of competence, it would be very normal. In this way, this weakening of democracy would be prevented. This would, of course, in essence be a return to 520 municipalities and the creation of two-level municipalities. Is this Saeima ready for this? I don't think so. In my opinion, the debate will prove all this. It will also prove that the Constitutional Courts of these reflections... and a good wish that the Saeima will reduce this level of democracy, will not be fulfilled in life. Also, of course, this judgment of the Constitutional Court made it clear that the Saeima acted arbitrarily. And that's why we have to amend this law here today. Colleagues! I call on you to support this draft law at first reading and to submit proposals for second reading (also I will do it) related to this judgment of the Constitutional Court and... to decide on the future of this particular territory or related areas which... the justification could comply with this judgment of the Constitutional Court... Colleagues, I call for support and full responsibility to work on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U5	Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U6	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, Well, here, the Constitutional Court has examined one of many applications about the fact that the Law on Administrative Territories and Localities is not really correct, and therefore the Constitutional Court has taken a decision... In fact, one specific mistake has already been recognised - in relation to this issue of Skulte. It's putting a little deeper... look again at the administrative territorial reform as a whole. Once again, questions have arisen that require a little analysis. So the first question is: can administrative territorial reform achieve its objectives in this way? Let us remember one of the main objectives of this administrative territorial reform. A combination of existing districts was expected to create larger, stronger regions with a major development centre that would provide better, better quality services, be able to develop better, entrepreneurship will happen and so on. There you go! But what about life? Unfortunately, everything goes on the contrary in life, because... Let us remember a question when we looked at the budget - the state budget and also the municipal budgets... By already adopting the budget for 2021, one of the main issues that affected municipal financing was the reduction of personal income tax revenues by five per cent for the part of municipalities – for the benefit of the state. In other words, EUR 92 million was removed for municipalities, which formed the revenue base for municipalities. It was most affected in poorer regions of the municipality, in Latgale - virtually all, practically all municipalities. I've already mentioned... This year, for example, the budget for the Prize decreased in a forced manner - because of this reduction in personal income tax - by a fifth, i.e. by 20 percent, in fact a million fewer. That is the reality. And that's what it's like in all municipalities... in poor municipalities. Here, from the point of view of these poor municipalities, it can be said openly that this administrative territorial reform is, in fact, a climate - it can also be called. Why? I'll try to justify it. First and foremost, the fact that the creation of new municipalities does not fully respect these conditions and conditions, as well as the allocation of funding, which would enable newly created municipalities to strengthen their capacity, infrastructure, services to provide citizens with better quality and better services. Neither the public budget nor the European Structural Funds actually provide for nor guarantee these municipalities either in regional or otherwise. On the contrary! We can see by looking at the ministries in the way the use of the funds is planned, say, during the next programming period. The Ministry of Transport states with complete openness that its aim, the purpose of this Ministry, is to invest primarily in Riga and Pierīga by cleaning up infrastructure, improving the standard of living, quality of life for the most part of the population. Go on. If I am not mistaken, it was by looking at the last year's budget, a three-year budget... At the time, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development was meant to implement the reform in 2020 in more than 700 thousand... for this purpose... and equally next year. We do not know in practice where these funds are spent and how they are spent. Experts on what measures... Is that so? I suspect that we can say quite openly that it's a certain kind of money, well, an aphere. Go on. There was a concrete proposal how to level up... this balanced development in the country, create administrative regions. This law, the Act on Administrative Areas and Populations, provides for the specific establishment of these administrative regions. Is that what happened? In general, this issue is stuck and it seems that no one is going to solve it. What, then, should be done to put an end to the actual crop? In my view, a draft law on public administration reform needs to be drawn up. In other words, that law should provide for the reduction of the number of ministries, the reallocation of functions, the reallocation of resources to them and, consequently, for the reduction of the number of officials and the reallocation of functions between regions and regions, with this new administrative territorial reform. Some work has already been done, and I would actually also invite you to join in the drafting of this law, first of all, the new parties that are currently in the Saeima - both the KPV LV and the New Conservative Party - as well as the National Associations and the other parties would be invited to take an active part. This law could enter into force with the next Saeima, so it would not affect the current situation, political, say, division of influence in ministries and coalitions, but by electing the new Saeima, it could create an opportunity to sort out the country differently, because we all feel and see that it is not right, we cannot solve many issues, let's say, let's say, not to mention the delay from neighbouring Estonia and Lithuania. Something has to be done. And I know that the parties in their pre-election promises, these new parties, have told the people and voters this wish. So it should be realised, otherwise, how will these parties be able to address their citizens for the next elections? I think that it would also be time for the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development to think about this. This should be done urgently and in a context... the overall link with this administrative territorial reform, which will affect both the municipalities and the administrative regions, because the reallocation of functions and the reallocation of funds - this must be done at the same time. But first of all, public administration has to be arranged. I support this proposal on Skulti, of course. I think this will not be the only issue that will be examined and challenged by the Constitutional Court, because many other regions are waiting for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U7	Name of Member Evia Papulei.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U8	Thank you. Madam President, colleagues. I wouldn't... and will not talk about approach and rulings of the Constitutional Court. I will also expect a similar action from the Saeima on one of the decisions of the Constitutional Court that concerns the financing or non-funding of higher education. The sooner the Saeima starts to work with it, the less likely it will be to speculate on what will or will not happen with higher education funding in the budgetary context - and more importantly, given that a very, very large reform has been announced, and it is not very clear to us how much it will be devoted to higher education. But when I return to this bill, I still want to express some joy - and really joy! - about the return of Skulte territory (also in the appearance of the bill) in Limbaži municipality. This is as if there is one small detail, but I think it's such a symbolic sign. It shows that those what the coalition calls discussions when it comes to regional reform have nevertheless been, and I agree with Mr Valaiņš - a certain bad experience from perhaps Soviet Union time - and I think it is very sad that these discussions, or the Commission, were led by a very young person. That, in my opinion, is a much more dangerous precedent of how we take over... or what we really understand with a free country, free discussions and free decisions. In any case, we do not know the future decisions of the Constitutional Court, but I would like to say again and again that I am very pleased that my voice has also helped by voting for the addition of Skulte parish to Limbaži, and this is unfortunately demonstrated by the court's decision. It is joy, the yeasts will remain, but again - I call you to look optimistically, errors can be corrected. I think, Mr Kazinovsky, there will be a time when this type of error will also be corrected, and that is really close. I call on you to support the draft law and hope that people, including those already legally permitted... After the adoption of the law... in elections, in municipal elections, will select those people who will still bring development to the Limbaži district, regardless of the current regional reform or regional division. However, people live in Limbazi, and people want development and thus the joy of life. I really hope that this decision will be a positive sign in this case, a symbolic sign for development. Even in one region - and yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U9	Name to Member Viktor Valainin for the second time.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U10	Colleagues! I wanted to respond to my colleague, Mr Kazinovsky, for his reflections on the creation of these regions and the new political forces that joined in on this. I think that the moment has now come when absolutely no regions will be created, because the report currently in government... who, as you said, is stuck... It's stuck there, because quite simply is empty as a white page. There's no normal function anymore. All the new parties are also stuck in a kind of bureaucracy. All aid measures at regional level have been left only in words. If we look at real works, then the Ministry of Transport has transferred... the main functions have already been announced, the procurement of public transport has been transferred to a number of highly dubious companies for the following years. I think that this function no longer makes sense. Similarly, road planning and organization are increasingly centralised in the hands of the Ministry of Transport, taking this issue away from regions and municipalities. In the field of education, the same thing is true: there are no real proposals for functions on their part that are no longer reflected in this report. On the contrary, everything is moving in such a direction of centralisation of power. That, in my opinion, is very bad. Of course, this municipal law will be such a serious challenge for the democratic aspect. If the Saeima does not solve this aspect of democracy... because of the nature of what is currently proposed in the municipal law, where it is proposed to prevent this absence of democracy in the current Administrative Territories and settlements law, which was passed by the Saeima, is such a disgusting about democracy. These elected boards of the population, which can then be dissolved by the local government and which absolutely do not have any competence, or these holding budgets - these are those things which, by their very nature, in a better way already exist. If these positions attempt to replace, in some way, the fact that these municipalities are too large and are unable to provide them effectively with the processes of fundamental democracy, so that the citizen is able to influence the decisions that are taking place around his home, then I think that the next Saeima will be the one that will, by nature, completely recast this reform. At present, they are technical, cosmetic corrections, but they will not solve anything in substance. When these municipalities start working, I think a number of municipalities themselves will come with proposals to change, change this regulation and return the municipality to a different form of territory than the current law, and the Saeima will have to re-establish the division of administrative territories of Latvia, because it is already clear that it will not work. And it is already clear today that its expectations on economic benefits will not be fulfilled, but the Institute of Democracy in Latvia will suffer greatly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U11	Name to Member Edgar Tavar.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U12	Dear President of the Saeima. Dear colleagues, If we are talking about the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Residents” especially now, after the Constitutional Court judgment, then I think we understand very well that this is only the first judgment. We're in front of... Several more are expected. At the moment we cannot predict how they will end - for the benefit of the applicants or otherwise - whether things will be left out of the way, or whether these specific municipalities will end down negatively - but we can still expect very many different harsh surprises. Therefore, I will definitely also call on colleagues - as far as possible, depending on the time allowed for the submission of proposals, we will submit proposals to review at least if not in all parts, then in these municipalities that have applied to the Constitutional Court to assess these risks already before the court judgements, because it is very possible... There is a possibility that the requirement will be satisfied that there will have to be emergency elections in many more places... than will be satisfied with applications of the Constitutional Court. If we really carefully read this judgment of the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court quite clearly pointed out the risks related to democracy in Latvia and the quality of the work of the Saeima in the context of administrative territorial reform. This is exactly what has been pointed out by a very large number of citizens and also by small local authorities who have called for their views and decision-making by adopting such an administrative map. This administrative card is a politically redesigned card without rational arguments. There is no clear answer to indicate clearly justified... not with slogans, but with figures proving that people would remain better after this reform, especially in the outermost regions outside the Riga range. There are no arguments for this, and we will be forced, either in six months' time or in a year, or in years' time, to return and review many of these decisions. It is very important to keep people in a position to decide where they are closest, so that your administrative centre will not be 70-80 kilometres away... that people and life are completely different from the place where the administrative center is located, so that power is not taken away from people even more than it is today. This current division is exactly what it is about, and I simply point out the risks that we, as legislator, must now assess as far as possible, given that the law is now open... will have to be decided on for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U13	The name of Member Regina Lochmele.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U14	Hello, colleagues! I am delighted to invite all of you today to vote in favour of this draft law. In this way, the Saeima will correct the mistakes made in the implementation of major administrative reform in Latvia. At that time, I personally warned myself of the fact that some precedents of making a new plan prepared by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, not even a plan prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development, but a whole new political one - it was absolutely... they'll be covered... that it will all end badly. What is the result? At the moment, one case has already been examined in the Constitutional Court, but there are 17 analogous cases in the procedure regarding administrative territorial reform. Seventeen! It concerns the following municipalities: Auces novads, Babītes novads, Ilūkstes novads, Garkalne parish, Alojas novads, Dauges, Jaunjelgavas, Seces, Sērenes, Staburaga and Sākestes parishes at Aizkraukle municipality, Ozolnieki novads, Lazdukalna parish, Rugāju parish, Rundāles novads, Salacgrīva, Kandava novads, Mazsalaca, Iecava, Murmastyene, Varakļāni, Vangžu city, Carnikava parish, Salas parish, Sēlpils parish. It's from all over Latvia. If you still look at the deadlines when the Constitutional Court will examine these cases. For example, the case about adding Auce Municipality to Dobele Municipality will be reviewed by the Constitutional Court on June 6. This date almost coincides with the municipal elections. The question is, will the consequences in this respect not be much more interesting than those that... is currently taking place, because this time it was just successful - by returning Skulte municipality to Limbaži municipality, there was a lack of 45 inhabitants to the border when the Central Electoral Commission had to change the number of Members to be elected in the newly established Limbaži district. But if we do not succeed in other regions - what are we going to do with the results of the municipal elections? So I ask you, of course, to vote in favour of this draft law this time, but in the future, to listen more actively to the opposition's arguments and to stop such gross errors as were made when we voted back the year in favour of a major administrative reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U15	Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U16	Hello, colleagues! To begin with, let us thank the Saeima and the Government - the Constitutional Court has and will work. But when you talk about... First of all, I would like to support the draft legislation tabled at first reading, but I would also like to say one thing that concerns me very much. What has been done is done. What has been done is done. All the long debates that preceded the adoption of the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations showed that there was not everything thought out to the end. But now it is already the final product, which affects every citizen of Latvia and every municipality, perhaps with the exception of the capital, even though it is relatively affected. Thus, every change in this law, to be honest, creates a rather large accident not only for officials but also for citizens themselves. And I would very much like to wish the people of Latvia to vote for new councils, municipal councils, think about making them composed of people with spine, mind and understanding. So that they can really not only manage their affairs in their territories, but that they can also defend the interests of the people and continue to do so, so that no great folly on the part of the state can be used as it was for one another... not only one time, when adopting the Law on Administrative Territories and settlements. One more thing. I am convinced that the people of Latvia are much smarter than the legislators than the executive and that they will understand what the Saeima “gifts” them with its own laws and more specifically with this law, and will be able to adapt to the inconveniences and difficulties created by one or the other law adopted by our respected Saeima. I call for support for the draft law tabled at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U17	I closed the debate. Is there anything to add or explain on behalf of the Commission?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U18	Yeah. On behalf of the Commission, I can say: Members in today's debate have, of course, touched on a very wide range of issues, much wider than the draft law that has been tabled. During the preparatory phase of the draft law, we also listened to the Legal Bureau's analysis yesterday about the relevant judgement of the Constitutional Court and took into account all aspects that were mentioned by the Law Bureau as such, which should be immediately clarified in the law, in order to ensure that all Latvian citizens have the opportunity to participate in municipal elections, which is planned for the beginning of June this year. And in other matters... of course, in fact, the Constitutional Court calls on us, as Members, to restrict ourselves. Members, of course, have the opportunity to act and submit any proposals and discuss any proposals, but we have also decided in the Commission to limit ourselves in fact at the moment, two and a half months before the elections, only on issues that are specific to the issues arising from the judgment of the Constitutional Court. So that on behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U19	Please call me! We will vote for the first reading of the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Administrative Territories and Accommodations”! Please, let's vote! It's not about - 92, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U20	The deadline for the submission of proposals would be 1 hour, it would be 4.50 p.m., and consideration at the sitting of the Saeima - 18 March.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-03-17-PT13-2215-U21	Thank you. Consequently, the deadline for the submission of proposals - at 16:50 on 17 March this year - for consideration by the Saeima at its meeting - is 18 March this year. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Time for notification. I would remind you that in 15 minutes' time we will continue with the agenda of the second remote emergency session on 25 February this year. So let's keep working at 4 p.m. I'm closing the sitting.
