ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U1	Hello, honourable Members and honourable Members! The agenda of the third remote extraordinary session of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 13 May 2021 has started to be discussed. On the agenda - Examination of draft laws. On the agenda there is one draft law - “Law on the Dismissal of Dundaga Municipality Council”, first reading. On behalf of the Commission of the State Administration and Local Government - Member Juris Pūce. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U2	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Very honourable Members and honourable Members! Let's work with bill No. 1069/Lp13 - “Law on the Dismissal of the Dundaga Municipality Council”. The draft law has been drafted by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. It addresses the range of issues related to the work of the Dundaga Regional Council since the beginning of this year. I would remind you of the chronological order (this was also reported at the commission meeting today). In January this year, the Chair and Vice-Chairman of Dundaga Municipality Council resigned, and since then the Dundaga Municipality Council has failed to elect the Chair of Dundaga Municipality Council. In fact, it is no longer trying to elect a President in recent months. There has been a number of renunciations by Members of their mandates. In fact, at the Dundaga Regional Council... Out of the three elected lists, it has been left with two lists - completely. And there's also details of the last list... applications for resignation. The Dundaga Municipality Council is actually now... these months have only functioned in extraordinary sittings, because there is no council Chair... The Vice-President may convene meetings. Moreover, the functions which the law imposes solely on the President are in fact not fulfilled during that period. Article 91 of the Law “On Municipalities” provides that the Saeima may decide to dismiss the municipality if there is a situation where two months after the resignation of the official, the municipal council has not elected the chairman or vice-chairman. This situation has come true, the deadline has run out, so the Saeima can decide to dismiss the county council. The Cabinet of Ministers... and the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development in the annotation also indicates what actions have been taken to stimulate, promote and ensure that the municipality still complies with the norm and elects the Chair, – and repeatedly, has turned to the Council, calling for such a decision... to do, as well as quite rarely, the rights used - the responsible minister has convened a municipal council meeting in which he was called upon to elect the chairperson of the council, but the Members chose not to elect the chairman of the council. In such circumstances, it is proportionate and legitimate to decide on the dismissal of the county council in order to ensure protection of the interests of citizens and realization of interests in the municipality in full during the period until the meeting of the new, newly elected, Talsi municipality council. The draft law therefore provides for a decision of the Saeima... provides for the dismissal of the Dundaga Municipality Council with the entry into force of the law, the appointment of the temporary administration in the composition of three officials and the establishment of the term of office of the temporary administration, i.e. until 1 July of this year, the meeting of the new Talsi Municipality Council, which will include the... The municipality of Talsi will also include Dundaga. During the examination of the draft law, a representative of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development and a representative of Dundaga Municipality Council were heard by the Commission. Members debated the draft decision, and unanimously a decision was taken on the support of this draft law at first reading, as well as unanimously the request of the Cabinet of Ministers was supported, and the commission asks that the draft law be declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U3	Thank you. So, first of all, we must vote in favour of declaring the draft law urgent. One Member can speak 'for', one for 'no'. Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for recognition of the draft law “Law on the Dismissal of the Dundaga Municipality Council” as urgent! Please vote mode! No, 76, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U4	Please support the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U5	Let us start a debate. The first part of the debate has been introduced by the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, Arthur Tom Ples. Please!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U6	The President of the sitting is very respectful. Dear Members and honourable Members, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur of the committee responsible for the comprehensive presentation and report of the situation. I would like to point out that in a democratic, legal country, the relationship between government and local authorities must take the form of dialogue, respecting the principles of good faith and mutual respect, in order to ensure effective public administration and the use of resources, and the municipal council included in the system of public administration must respect these principles. Within the framework of several monitoring, the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has reminded Dundaga Municipality in writing of the duties of the Members arising from the Law “On Local Government”, as well as warned about the consequences that will come if the Members fail to fulfil their duties. However, in the replies we received, the Dundaga Municipality Council members pointed out that, in fact, they did not see any advantage in bringing a representative to the post of head of the municipality so shortly before the forthcoming elections, on 5 June. Members of Dundaga Municipality Council expressed their opinion that the work of the Council without the management of the Council has become only faster and more effective and that questions are discussed in extraordinary sittings convened at the last moment, bypassing them in committees - without long discussions and spending time. Such statements alone indicate an incomplete understanding of the law and the responsibilities of Members. The Dundaga Municipality Council obviously does not understand its obligation to comply with the law and to act in accordance with the rule of law, and thus to ensure in its day-to-day work the procedure which is intended to be used for the decision-making of the Council. The municipal council is a democratically elected institution, and it must act in a democratic way and in the public interest, it cannot have other... their interests. And there are many challenges that can only be met effectively by knowledge of local conditions, including the needs of local people. For this purpose, in terms of managing local circumstances and needs and ensuring better governance, voters had made their choice clear in the 2017 elections: to trust the ability and willingness of elected Members to make responsible and good decisions in the work of the Council, thus contributing to the development of the entire territory of the Dundaga municipality. Unfortunately, since January 28, 2021, when the mandate of Alda Felta, the Chairman of Dundaga Municipality Council, and his deputy Jānis Mauriņš, expired, it has not been done enough that Dundaga Council continues to work fully and in accordance with the law and to deal with not only the issues necessary for everyday work, but it would also be able to represent the interests of the local people in the development of the new development documents and structure of the municipality of Talsi... be able to properly assess needs and opportunities for applying for support instruments that are very widely available to municipalities to address local needs this year. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has not only followed developments in this period (or rather – inaction from the Dundaga Municipality Council), but has also reminded Dundaga Council in writing on several occasions within the framework of monitoring, both the duties of the Members deriving from the law and also warned about the consequences that will arise if Members fail to fulfil their duties. The Ministry, carrying out supervision of Dundaga Municipality Council within the powers set out in the Law “On Municipalities”, has established the incapacity in the work of a particular municipal council. The Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development, carrying out the relevant supervision of Dundaga Municipality Council within the powers set by the Law “On Local Government”, also identified this inability. And I remind you, the Ministry has addressed the Council on 24 February and 23 March this year, and on 1 April and 21 April I also convened the Dundaga Regional Council, as the rapporteur mentioned. We have been open to providing advice where the representatives of the municipality needed it. However, there is no clear result. And adding... This meeting of 21 April, which I convened and in which I called on the President and his deputy to be elected, explaining the inadmissibility of the continuation of the current situation... It has to be said that the deadline for the election of the President and Vice-President was set 26 April this year. At the same time, while respecting the local government principle, Members were heard about the reasons and reasons for not complying with the statutory obligations. On 26 April this year, the Ministry received a letter from the members of the Dundaga District to indicate that they were not going to nominate a representative to the post of head of the municipality. Such a decision only clearly confirms... shows systematic mistreatment and, as I have already mentioned, it has consequences for the legitimate interests of citizens and society in a given administrative area. The Dome cannot fully fulfil its statutory obligations. Members of the Dundaga Municipality Council are those who have been entrusted with management baskets on behalf of the local community by the residents of the municipality, hoping for proper action. It should be noted that the day before the meeting of 21 April referred to above, four of the nine governors announced the appointment of their mandates. The remaining five members of the Council voted in favour of the appointment at an extraordinary sitting yesterday. That's especially... Well, let's say that... It's important... And insanity... At the time when part of the workers... entrepreneurs and citizens are forced to stand alone because of a global pandemic, the choice of a dome - put in a hand's lap - seems totally unacceptable, while adjacent regions invest time, energy and resources in their development. Any official, and therefore the members of the local government council, must always act in the public interest and in the public interest, with the aim of ensuring effective public administration. And the law cannot be interpreted as you like – it determines clear responsibility and clear action, and the Ministry will also act in accordance with the law, as all other opportunities have already been exhausted. Given that until now the Dundaga Municipality Council has not decided on the election of the Chairman of the Council and his deputy, as well as the fact that the reply of the Council to the Ministry is clear - that it will not be done - the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Regional Development has led to the Cabinet of Ministers a draft law on the dismissal of the Dundaga Municipality Council, which has now been handed over to the Saeima. It provides for the dismissal of the Dundaga Municipality Council and the appointment of a temporary administration until the date of the first meeting of the newly elected Talsi Municipality Council. When preparing this draft law, the actions of Dundaga Municipality Council were evaluated – implementation of the task assigned to the exclusive competence of the municipal council, namely to elect the chairman and vice-chairman of the municipal council, as specified in paragraph 10 of Section 21(1) of Law “On Municipalities”. The Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development, through hierarchical monitoring of the municipality and identifying threats to democracy and the rule of law, must respond appropriately and address the threat. I therefore call on Members of the Saeima to support today's draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U7	Thank you, Minister. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U8	Very respectful Head of the sitting! Minister! Colleagues! Thank you to the Minister for this presentation. The dismissal of the Council is, of course, an important step to be taken by the Saeima, and there are a number of considerations in this case. And, of course, at the moment, the situation that has arisen in Dundag... It is very true that Dundaga was not fully able to participate in the joint procedures necessary for administrative territorial reform, where the municipality can participate, defend its interests, reach some important issues for itself, and apply for support programmes. In this case, the situation that has developed was already clear in January. The situation that had arisen... The fact that the most correct decision is, in principle, the dismissal of the Council was already clear at the end of March. And I think... In this case, I would like to criticise the Minister for Environmental Protection and Regional Development for having taken this decision so late. It is a decision that we are already making at the moment, because we will complete the procedure and appoint a municipal administrator for a few weeks. From the VARAM side people are quite respected, but at the same time we can see that it only has such a kind of role, because, by nature, there are no meetings in this period really... and these joint financial committees, where some projects could be decided on, will by their very nature no longer exist. If it had been done more quickly, then there would still be some hope that the opinion of the people of Dundaga region would be more widely heard in the newly created county of Talsi. Of course, as far as I am aware, in Talsi district separate political forces - the Greens/Farmers' Union, the Latvian Green Party, the Latvian Farmers' Union - were interested... other methods on what is happening in the Dundaga district and what improvements would be needed there when deciding on the creation of a new district. Therefore, in this case, there is a considerable criticism for the Minister himself that this decision is so late, it should have been much faster, possibly... law... at a faster time. We see what the minister... is particularly active in the dismissal of each other's President, and I believe that this is a completely wrong approach: in law, giving such a right at all. But where the work of the municipality must really be evaluated and the situation created must be assessed objectively... and clearly visible signals, and it is clear that the work of the municipality will not be productive and development-oriented from elected Members and political... the parties to the citizens' associations in this case in Dundaga... there is only one thing left - it was necessary to react more quickly, much more quickly, so that this municipality really would be given the opportunity to participate in the processes that the Minister talked about. In this case, removing this process for so long... we can only tell you about the possibilities at the Dundaga Regional Council without giving it any suggestions, possibilities, how it could still... The residents of Dundaga municipality are better able to participate in these processes, either through the state appointed administrator, which in this case is offered. That is why I am, of course, calling for support, but this decision should have been several months before. Thank you, and I call for your support.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U9	Thank you. I closed the debate. Mr Pouce, on behalf of the Commission, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U10	The Commission supported the draft law at first reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U11	Please call me! We will vote for support for the first reading of the draft law “Law on the Dismissal of the Dundaga Municipality Council”! Please vote mode! No, 84, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Draft legislation supported at first reading. Please specify the deadline and date for the examination of the draft law at the second, final, reading session of the Saeima.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U12	At its meeting, the Commission acknowledged that in fact neither the Members nor the Legal Office of the Saeima or other institutions designated by the Saeima were planning to submit proposals for second reading. And objectively, the draft law is urgent. Its adoption in as rapid a process as possible would help to meet the objectives of the draft law, and therefore the Commission decided to invite the Saeima not to set a deadline for the submission of proposals, but to ask the Saeima to examine the draft law at the second, final, reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-05-13-PT13-2250-U13	Thank you. So do Members have reservations that this draft law is also being examined at second, final, reading? Please apply if someone has reservations. So Members do not object, and we can consider the draft law on the second reading of the Dundaga Municipality Council and vote. Please call me! We will vote for the support of the draft law on the dismissal of Dundaga Municipality Council in the second, final, reading! Please vote mode! It's not about - 83, it's against and refrains from - it's not. The law is passed. Dear colleagues, We have therefore examined the agenda for the third remote emergency session on 13 May. I would like to inform you that in 15 minutes' time, that is to say at 14:20, we will continue to discuss the agenda of the first remote emergency session on 13 May. Only the registration of Members. Registration is over. I'm closing the third remote sitting. See you at 14.20!
