ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U1	Good morning, dear colleagues! We will begin the first remote emergency sitting of the Saeima of the Republic of Latvia on 9 December 2021. On the agenda for the election, approval, appointment, dismissal or dismissal of officials, trust or distrust. Draft decision on consent to prosecution against 13. Members of the Saeima, John Adamson’. Member Normunds Gunna on behalf of the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Applications.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U2	Hello, colleagues! On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 17 and point 2 of the first paragraph of Article 179 of the Parliament’s Rules of Procedure, the Commission of Mandates, Ethics and Application at its meeting on 8 December of this year examined an application from the Prosecutor General’s Office for its consent to the opening of criminal proceedings against 13. The first paragraph of Article 180 ‘Theft, fraud, misappropriation’ and the second paragraph of Article 233 of the Saeima Members who have been accused in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 85 of the Criminal Law, the first paragraph of Article 180 ‘Theft, fraud, misappropriation’, which provides for responsibility for the possession, transport, transfer or disposal of the essential components of a firearm, a firearm, the ammunition of a firearm without appropriate authorisation. After hearing the representative of the Prosecutor's Office, as well as 13. Mr Adamson, Members of the Saeima, with seven votes in favour, two against, and one abstention, supported the draft decision drawn up by the Commission for Mandates, Ethics and Application “On consent to prosecution against 13. Members of the Saeima, John Adamson’. On behalf of the Commission, I call for support for the draft Saeima decision prepared by the Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U3	Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! We will vote on the draft decision on the consent to criminal prosecution against 13. Members of the Saeima, John Adamson”! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Decision adopted. Next on the agenda - referral of draft laws to commissions and first reading. The Saeima Bureau proposes that the draft law “Amendments to the Law on Civil Procedure” submitted by the Legal Commission be referred to the Legal Commission, stating that it is the committee responsible. Do Members object to a draft law being passed on to the Commission? There is no objection. Draft law has been passed on to the Commission. Colleagues, let's start examining the draft law at first reading. Member Juris Jurash is on behalf of the commission responsible.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U4	Good morning, colleagues! I informed that at the meeting on 8 December, the Legal Commission reviewed the draft law drafted by the Ministry of Justice “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law”, which urgently addresses the problem related to the implementation of the e-case project, the regulation of which was recently supported by the Saeima. I would like to remind you that the law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” entered into force on 1 December 2021, which, among other things, provides for amendments to Chapter 50.1 of the Civil Procedure Law “Corporate performance of obligations according to the warning procedure”, by electronicising and automating certain stages of the execution of these obligations by the court. However, in practice, there has been a mismatch between the functioning of the system and the regulatory framework... which needs to be prevented by urgent amendments to the Civil Procedure Law. Having heard the experts’ opinions on the topicality of the problem, the Legal Commission heard the experts’ opinions on the topicality of the problem, the Legal Commission examined and supported the progress of the draft law in the Saeima. Taking into account that the Legal Commission recognised the said draft law as urgent, I ask the Saeima to support the urgency of the draft law.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U5	Members have not applied to speak about urgency. Please call me! We will vote for the recognition of the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” as urgent! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - no, for - 1. The draft law has been declared urgent.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U6	Yes, and in accordance with Rule 86 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the committee requests that the draft law be examined at first reading without re-examination by the Legal Commission.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U7	Members shall not object. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” at first reading! Please, let's vote! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The draft law at first reading has been supported. Please set a time limit for proposals and hearings at the Saeima sitting.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U8	In the light of the third paragraph of Rule 92 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure, i.e. if none of those present who are eligible under Rule 95 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure have objected to the fact that the time limit for the submission of proposals may not be set, the draft law may be considered as an urgent draft law at second reading immediately after its adoption at first reading. At the Commission meeting, one of the potential applicants - the Ministry of Justice and the Legal Bureau - said that they would not submit their proposals. On behalf of the Commission, I ask you to examine the urgent draft law, which has been recognised, ‘Amendments to the Civil Procedure Act’, at second, final reading.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U9	Dear colleagues, The procedure section is turned on. Are Members opposed to the examination of the draft law without re-examination by the committee responsible? If there are objections, please apply. There is no objection. Please call me! We will vote for the draft law “Amendments to the Civil Procedure Law” in the second, final, reading! Please, let's vote! No, 78, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The law is passed. On the agenda - consideration of the draft decision. The draft decision on the re-allocation of appropriations established by the Saeima on the consent of the Saeima to the Law on the State Budget 2021. Member of the Commission for Budget and Finance (Tax) Reinis Znotiņš.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U10	Good morning, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, We are therefore working on the draft decision on the Parliament’s approval of the reallocation of appropriations laid down in the Law on the State Budget 2021. What, then, is this reallocation? This reallocation of appropriations amounts to EUR 19 361 129 from a number of ministries to unforeseen circumstances. In principle, money saved or not spent in ministries is transferred back to unforeseen circumstances. A little more precise presentation: more than 540 thousand are transferred from the budget programmes of the Ministry of Defence, more than one million euros from programmes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, more than three million 700 thousand from programmes of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, more than five million from programmes of the Ministry of Finance, more than 680 thousand from programmes of the Ministry of Education and Science, 2368 euros from programmes of the Ministry of Agriculture, more than 818 thousand from programmes of the Ministry of Welfare, more than 358 thousand from programmes of the Ministry of Justice, and more than 153 thousand from programmes of the Ministry of Environment and Regional Protection, as well as almost seven million euros from programmes of the Ministry of Culture. The draft decision has therefore been examined by the Budget and Finance (Tax) Commission at its meeting on 7 December this year and has been supported. I also call on the Saeima to support this appropriation.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-12-09-PT13-2331-U11	Thank you. Members have not applied for a debate. Please call me! Let's vote for... Please call me! Thank you. We will vote for the draft decision “On the Parliament’s consent to the reallocation of the appropriations laid down in the Law “On the State Budget 2021””! Please, let's vote! For - 76, for - no, for - 3. Decision adopted. Dear colleagues, The agenda of the sitting has been examined. Members' registration is over. On December 9, this year, we will begin our second remote emergency session at 9.30 a.m. So we keep working at 9.30 a.m. I therefore closed the first remote emergency sitting on 9 December this year.
