ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U1	Honourable Members! We shall begin the third remote emergency sitting on 25 February 2021. On the agenda, ‘Reports by the Prime Minister, Ministers and other officials’. Annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia for 2020. Name to Ombudsman Juris Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U2	Hello, honors! Madam President of your Excellency Saeima. Wait a second, I got one... Dear Members, Ladies and gentlemen! One second... Allow me to do this (Pause.) ... Just a moment, something to me technically (Pause.) ... Wait a second! Yeah, if you can... So thank you for...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U3	Mr. Ombudsman, I am sorry. Before you start talking... The right side of the screen has a black button “Log in”. We work in the e-Saami, special mode. Well, please... Yeah, thank you. It's okay now. Name to Ombudsman Juris Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U4	Your Excellency Murniece! Dear Members of the Saeima! Ladies and gentlemen! It is likely that every speech this year starts with the words "2020 has been full of challenges". It is certainly for everyone, because it has been necessary to adapt to changes in their work and private life, to stay in a more stressful environment for a long time, and to look to the future with more uncertainty than usual. As a result of the country’s state emergency, I get a variety of questions about respect for fundamental rights in relation to the country’s pandemic prevention measures, as well as state aid for strengthening social welfare for those affected by the pandemic. Like in other areas, the Covid-19 pandemic has also influenced the nature of the issues and complaints received in the Ombudsman’s Office. Any decisions and statements made by the government to limit co-infection were almost simultaneously reflected in the content of the e-mail question and application. I have made a number of recommendations and recommendations to the government and ministries. I have paid particular attention to ensuring the right of the public to access information, as well as the rights of specially protected groups, accurate, timely and in line with the principles of human rights. At the moment, I can draw quite clear conclusions that the government was not prepared for the crisis situation. Although there was initially strong pragmatism in monitoring and monitoring the epidemiological situation, it was much worse to pass on clear, understandable, objective and timely information to the public in different formats to reach all groups of society, including, for example, people with different types of disabilities. There was an impression that the government had no clear plan for action to be taken on a specific number of patients, whether and how access to health care would be ensured, what support measures would be available if economic activity was restricted. And, of course, other questions. In addition to the complaints initiated by Covid-19, I have received many other applications during the reporting period, the subject of which has already been illuminated in previous years. For example, when assessing the nature of the complaints received as a whole, it should be noted that people with disabilities have been most complaining about insufficient social support, low benefits and pensions, poorly defined groups of disabilities, access to the environment and adaptation of housing. For people with mental disabilities, however, there is a need to give more attention to ensuring full respect for all rights, including everyone's right to live in society, purposefully reducing institutional care and promoting the diversity and development of community-based services. Unfortunately, it has also been established in 2020 that the only service offered by the State to persons with very severe developmental disorders is institutional care. Large national social care centres are still not replaced by community-based and family-friendly services. Moreover, most of the visited national social care centres have even expanded, and large and large amounts of state budget funds are invested in them, thus strengthening institutional care. This is contrary to the aim and nature of deinstitutionalisation. It is for this reason that I have called for a wide range of community-based services to be provided throughout the territory of the country, with appropriate funding from the state budget. Last year, developments show that an increasing and increasing number of complaints are also about possible unequal treatment in the working environment, which shows an increased awareness of workers about their rights and their courage to seek help. Equal rights and opportunities between women and men remain areas where gender mainstreaming is needed. This is reflected, for example, in gender-based violence and various stereotypes. During the period 2020 328 applications were received for aspects of the right to a fair trial, which is relatively more than in the previous year. Applicants still often complain and ask for information about their rights and interests, as well as complaints about advocates and the quality of their work. Thus, from the nature and content of the applications received, a conclusion can be drawn on the lack of awareness among the parties involved in the various proceedings of their rights and the possibilities for their protection, including the right to qualitative legal assistance. Of course, the announcement of the emergency situation in the country has also affected the work of courts, so in certain situations I have also assessed how guarantees of the right to a fair trial are respected in this period. There are also still signals about restrictions on access to court, disproportionately long time limits for hearing cases. The fact that the number of applications in which persons express dissatisfied with the arguments contained in court rulings and enforcement aspects has increased cannot be overlooked. In 2020, I am aware of the situation regarding the possibilities for citizens to receive legal aid in administrative proceedings before the institution and the court. The results of the study suggest that citizens who might need this assistance by its very nature are not sufficiently informed about the possibility and modalities of receiving it. In addition, institutions and courts have not defined criteria for complex administrative cases that allow institutions to take extensive action in the application of the law. It can become an insurmountable obstacle for citizens to receive legal aid in administrative proceedings before the institution and the court. Still a large number of applications are received directly for the enforcement of court decisions. For example, persons draw attention in their submissions to the fact that the bailiff has done everything for his or her part, but the court's decision on recovery of the debt is not enforced for a long time, which does not result in a court's judgment being satisfied. I believe that it is the responsibility of the State to provide for a system of enforcement of a decision that is effective by nature not only in regulatory regulation, but also in practice. In addition, the measures ensuring enforcement must be such as to make effective enforcement of the judgment possible. Last year in the country was marked by widespread disinformation, mainly related to the Covid-19 pandemic and its limitations. Similarly, compared to the previous years, I observed well more cases when hatred was expressed against persons of other skin colour and ethnic origin. In a number of cases, I turned to the law enforcement authorities. In turn, regarding the right to property, the residents mostly turned to me in case of individual abuse, but owners of apartment houses complained about the actions of the house operator. There is still confusion about the longstanding inability to find a fair solution to the problem of shared property. Last year is considered to be almost historical in the field of social security. Four important decisions of the Constitutional Court regarding compliance of minimum income with the Satversme were marked as the fruits of the work of previous years. Almost in all judgments, the Constitutional Court recognised that social security is such an important issue that it must be decided by the legislator himself at the level of principles. The Court also pointed out that any sizes must be set with a specific purpose and based on empirical and scientific calculations according to the economic situation in the country. As a result, it is no longer possible to set minimum levels of support by political agreement; they must be based on logical and economic considerations, ensuring that everyone has a standard of living that is in line with human dignity. I have completed the study on homelessness in Latvia and its possible scope, as well as I have collected the view of municipalities about possible solutions to the problem situation. It must be concluded that the vast majority of municipalities do not keep separate accounts for homeless people, and data are mainly obtained from the number of people who received shelter services. Homelessness as a social and personal problem cannot be eliminated at all because it is based on a set of different personal and social circumstances, but can be reduced by various complex actions, multidisciplinary, coordinated and coordinated by all the institutions involved, including through targeted work to increase access to housing. With regard to the right to live in a favorable environment, I have come to the conclusion that citizens are paying ever more attention to what is happening and to the environment in which they live. I continue to receive complaints about the lack of a legal mechanism to protect the rights of individuals in cases of domestic noise. In practice, the police are powerless against the action of noisers, so citizens' right to accommodation is not protected at all. In view of the number of people who are asking for a solution to this problem for years, further delay in introducing a sensible legal framework to protect citizens' right to rest cannot be allowed. With regard to the rights of children and young people, it should be noted, unfortunately, that the year passed before the reform of the system for protecting children's rights. It was reduced to institutional transformation – changes in the names of institutions and changes in functional subordination, but no change of substance has taken place. In my view, institutional reform of the system for protecting children's rights has only one way – a solution that has already been approved and works in all developed countries of the world. In particular, the decision-making function of the family courts in matters of custody and custody must be handed over to the courts. Bronze courts shall take legally binding decisions with legal consequences based on the provisions of the Family Rights Section of the Civil Law and shall restrict the fundamental human rights – the right to private and family life. The fact that in Latvia children's lives are decided by institutions that are independent of the judiciary – orphan courts – is sometimes bordered with legal nihilism. In Latvia, court coverage is optimal, however, it might be necessary to supplement the number of judges who are specialised in matters of child rights protection and family law. In the area of children's and youth's rights, the number of applications in the last year has not changed significantly. The most frequently addressed by the applicants were the exercise of rights of access, the termination/renewal of custody rights and the right to education. For example, the highest number of applications in the area of children's rights was about the difficulty of implementing the contacts and executing court rulings in the cases of contacts. Ensuring the rights of orphans and children without parental care is also in my sight for a long time. According to the available statistics, 6252 children were present in out-of-family care in Latvia on 31 December 2020, 621 children care and education in institutions of long-term social care and social rehabilitation. Statistics show that the number of children in extra-family care is gradually declining, but there are still long-term children in institutions. In order to identify the actual situation of ensuring children's rights in childcare institutions, we went with colleagues and specialists on planned visits to children's institutions of the municipality of Latvia. I welcome the efforts made by several municipalities to promote services that bring the family closer to the environment. I would also like to stress that in most of the institutions visited, there has been a significant decrease in the number of children. It provides for living in smaller groups, as well as children with the opportunity to receive the necessary support from the staff of the institution. At the same time, however, it was found that a number of institutions still lack awareness of the social rehabilitation needs of children, as well as lack of specialists to fully meet children's needs. Special attention is paid not only to the protection of the rights of the younger, but also to the rights of the older generation. Older people have exactly the same rights as everyone else, but when it comes to exercising these rights, they are often faced with many problems, especially when life goes to social care centres or so-called old people's homes. Therefore, in order to ensure that the rights of older people were respected, I visited the old people’s homes on several occasions and made recommendations to improve the rights of seniors. It is recalled that on 1 March 2018, a new branch was set up in the Ombudsman's Office, a part of the prevention, the main task of which is to regularly and systemically visit institutions where persons have or might have limited freedom. As part of the preventive mechanism, a total of 40 such visits to institutions, including prisons, took place in 2020. Persons in custody shall be under the absolute command of the State and thus protected by it. Whatever the reasons why a person is in prison, the State is responsible for ensuring that detention conditions and behaviour do not create additional difficulties and restrictions and must not exceed the threshold of suffering necessarily linked to the fact of imprisonment. I have paid increased attention to the protection of these people. Significantly, last year most of the applications were received from the largest prisons in Latvia – Daugavgriva prison and Riga Central Prison – and most of them are related to residential issues. This clearly shows that prison infrastructure is still inadequate to ensure a decent execution of imprisonment/detention; this is something I have also brought to the attention of the government. Last year, an investigation was also launched into the situation regarding the placement of persons in detention facilities without their consent. As a result of the research, I found that there is still no uniform practice or regulatory act base in Latvia that would regulate the procedure and conditions for restricting the freedom of persons under influence, therefore there are currently risks to unjustified restrictions on the freedom of persons. The year has been working actively to improve and strengthen the knowledge and understanding of human trafficking phenomena, its forms, causes and the recognition and protection of victims, among the officials involved in preventing trafficking in human beings. Comprehensive messages and proposals were made on the necessary measures to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings, and the public was informed about situations where it is necessary to take care not to become victims of trafficking in human beings during the communal war. I have also tabled initiatives on the necessary improvements and amendments to the regulatory framework for preventing trafficking in human beings. International cooperation will continue to be active in 2020. Especially important is the fact that in December the Ombudsman's Office carried out the accreditation process within the Accreditation Sub-Committee of the International Coordination Committee of the United Nations National Human Rights Institutions. We needed the accreditation process at the designated human rights institution to receive once again the highest internationally recognised assessment of the organisation's compliance with international standards of national human rights institutions. I would like to conclude by saying that human rights can best be protected and their importance assessed if everyone has an understanding of their content and their meaning in their lives. It is important for everyone to be able to defend their human rights in the event of abuse and to respect them in their relations with other members of society. The understanding of human rights contributes to the protection of human dignity and to the development of a society in which human rights are respected. So I see that we, as a state, and therefore also an institution of the Ombudsman, still have much to do to build a more tolerant, inclusive, knowledgeable society in Latvia than our own rights and to protect our rights and those of our fellow human beings more courageously. In this way, we must pay greater attention to promoting dialogue on non-discrimination and tolerance in our work, putting the protection of people and their dignity at the heart of our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U5	I thank the Ombudsman, Juris Jansons, for his important and detailed report. Colleagues! Let us begin the debate. In the debate, preference shall be given to those Members who have applied in writing before the beginning of the sitting and those who will speak on behalf of the political group. Member Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska has applied for the "Development/About!" groups. on behalf of and in writing. So we are starting a debate. Development/About! on behalf of Ms Dace Rukšāne-Ščipčinska.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U6	Hello, colleagues! The pandemic introduced various changes in our life, so – also in the Saeima calendar. We have just looked at the Ombudsman's report for 2019. Finally, we can also carefully look at human rights issues in the 2020 round. In the context of 2020, it is already customary to say that it was a year of a pandemic. And, of course, this report is also an annual report for the pandemic. In this context, the Group on Development/Par! wishes to agree and reiterate the Ombudsman's idea that human rights have not been abolished or discontinued during a pandemic. The principles and considerations of human rights must also be present in every decision in an emergency. I very much hope that, in today's debate, we will agree as the decision-making power and will always observe this spirit. The Ombudsman's report for 2020 is very informative and sets out in detail what has been achieved and what has not been done in various areas. I would like to draw attention to two topics. Firstly, these are the rights of people with disabilities. It can be concluded with great surprise, regret, and even anger that once again our left hand does not know what is doing. For 10 years, the state has been working towards deinstitutionalisation, which means providing the necessary support in people's places of residence, so that people with disabilities can live fully in society and be equal together with our societies. Instead, as the Ombudsman points out, large amounts of state budget funds are invested directly in the services of social care centres, thus strengthening institutional care. This is quite contrary to the objectives and nature of deinstitutionalisation. To be precise, it is right to invest public funds in care centres for seniors, while the deinstitutionalisation process concerns care centres for people with disabilities. That is, it concerns those of our fellow people who would be in the interests of living permanently in society. Deinstitutionalisation is therefore one of the main tools to ensure the rights of people with disabilities. And so I want to ask: where is a thoughtful and consistent state policy to ensure human rights for people with disabilities? This accusation, of course, is not for the Ombudsman, who has already become the main and momentous mechanism of implementation of state social policy with the decisions of the Constitutional Court proposed by the Ombudsman’s Office. Thank you very much to the entire Ombudsman's team for that. I very much hope that the experts of the Ministry of Welfare will respond to the report's conclusions on the deinstitutionalisation process. And I'm really glad that the Ombudsman is working on environmental accessibility issues. Like the Ombudsman, the Group on Development/Par! believes that the rules of the Housing Property Law are discriminatory for people with disabilities. If 75 per cent of the population is required for the installation of pandemics or hoists in multi-apartment homes, this is often an impossible task. And in general on basic human rights... The collection of signatures for such rights should not take place. That is why I and my fellow Members, Inese Iksten, tabled amendments that are supported by both the Ombudsman and the Ministry of Economics, and I hope that together we will manage to reduce this unnecessary bureaucracy and take a step towards access to the environment for people with disabilities and a truly inclusive society. The second problem I wanted to talk about is the prevention of trafficking in human beings. I have been following this topic closely for several years. We still do not have a comprehensive and systematic approach to this issue. The victims of trafficking in human beings are not properly recognised and therefore do not receive public assistance to recover from the consequences. Once again, I would like to stress the need for closer cooperation between the many institutions working on this issue. Yesterday, at the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs, we discussed both the Ombudsman's report on 2020 and the candidates for the future Ombudsman's mandate. I believe that the Saeima urgently needs to strengthen the capacity of the Ombudsman. The Constitution should be amended, not to restrict the rights of groups of people, as some political forces have proposed, but to strengthen the institution of the Ombudsman in the Constitution, thereby reducing the political influence on the Ombudsman's office and indeed strengthening the protection of human rights in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U7	Thank you. Name to Member Viktor Valain.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U8	Highly honored Speaker of the Saeima! Your Honor, Mr. Ombudsman. I would also like to say a great deal of thanks for the report and the topics it contains. You've really worked very well. Both the decisions made by the Constitutional Court in favour of your initiatives and the subsequent decisions taken by the Government are, I think, just one small part of your work. And when we get to know your report, we can all take a little look at the huge amount of work that you are doing at the moment. On the other hand, in order not to talk very widely about many painful topics, I would, of course, like to talk about one very specific section, that is, the issue of housing. On the issue of housing... I am pleased that this report, too... I see you've been... Unfortunately, once again you have been forced to write the question of the regulation of the legal issue of shared property. I very much hope that, by listening to your next report at the Saeima, we will already be able to see that it will be mentioned that the Saeima has found some kind of solution. I am quite sure that in the near future the committee responsible for the Saeima will continue to work on this regulatory framework. But the issue of shared property is just one of many. There are many other issues, as you say, this is not the only one. Like us in the Saeima, like us in Latvia – no one has abolished human rights during the pandemic, they must be followed very carefully. Likewise, pandemic time hasn't cancelled those processes, those events... natural processes that happen to our apartment houses. It is the most direct issue of human rights and such the most direct issue of society... We are, in principle, in such a very dangerous position at the moment because... In my view, there is no regulation, no serious commitment at present, neither in government nor in the Saeima... there is nothing that could prevent us from facing a social crisis in housing. Housing's technical condition is very critical, threateningly critical, home is in a catastrophic state. And, colleagues, I would also call on the Ombudsman to focus more on this, because citizens do not have the opportunity to get out of this crisis. Only with state aid, joint state and local government support, can some sort of solution to this problem be found. The solutions that are now available – insulation, renovation of apartment buildings – are like a drop in the sea, looking at the huge extent of the problem. I am very pleased that the State Audit Office carried out a special audit on this issue, and in principle, the conclusions of the audit confirmed everything I said. All the sites tested showed how critical this situation is. If the population may not turn so much away... Well, how do you say... The balconies don't drop so much off, the walls of the house don't split so much, they don't crack so much so that the Ombudsman's office gets a lot of reports about it... But any expert who specializes in this field could certainly confirm that that critical moment has already come in principle. And to any specialist... and I appeal to the Ombudsman in this regard as a defender of citizens' rights... I think citizens must help already on the issue of housing, pay attention to a government that has not yet heard it to the end, to how much work we have ahead of us, to how strategically it needs to look at how... This should be a political priority. I hope that the Ombudsman will also focus more on this issue. Despite the fact that... As I said, you have addressed the issue of housing, the question of managers, and I agree with the topics you mentioned, but the medal has the other side – people have the money they have, and until the state comes seriously to the aid until it becomes one of the main priorities in the country... This is not the case at the moment, but objectively this housing problem... and here will be a story not only about access to housing for disabled people... Colleagues, that's... it's not comparable to what's going to be...
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U9	Mr. Valains, the speaking time is over. Thank you. Name to Member Artus Neminis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U10	Good afternoon, Madam President of the Saeima. Hello, honourable Ombudsman! Welcome, colleagues. I would like to say a bit about the Ombudsman's 2020 report... Maybe more with comparisons. I mean, the Ombudsman's Office report... we receive it every year. We see these problems every year. Sometimes it seems that the Ombudsman's Office every year... In principle, as such a good filmmaker should make a new film every year. A new film – to be new events, new actors, new developments. And now, unfortunately, we're in this new movie... In principle, we already have 10 series, it could be said – there are already 10 reports. On the Ombudsman's website www.tiesibsargs.lv we see 10 reports, and 10 reports have become... It's like a serial. And there's no time here... I am not currently saying something bad about the Ombudsman's office and everything else, but I remind you that its problems are always recurring and are the same. Of course, every time the Ombudsman puts an emphasis on his problem... Each year. But if we take these last... Well, I don't know... Let's take five-year reports, then we see this area... In principle, 80 percent... is the sphere of the Ministry of Welfare. The Ombudsman's report has always, every year, been to the Saeima Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs as such compass, establishing the agenda of the Commission for Human Rights and Public Affairs. Because these problems, which the Ombudsman's office has with its radar, if you can say so, marked, found and pointed out with your finger – re where there is a problem... they're always... Well, that's his job, too. And it's his job to point out with a stick. He's doing it. But at the moment, the situation is that these problems, which the Ombudsman has described on 146 pages... I say once again – they are cyclical. I have to tell you the thing that... Yesterday, as you know, we heard this report from the Commission. And I asked Mr. Janson how he appreciates in principle cooperation with the Ministry of Welfare... and more generally. I asked: Mr Janson, if you had the opportunity to give the Minister for Welfare a mark from zero to 10, how many would you give? Mr. Jansons said diplomatically that he was not a teacher, but in the end he said, "weak", so "not counted". But now – about how exactly the commission works. We have a very close relationship with the Ombudsman, and we receive a very large number of letters. And, Mr. Janson, I'm sorry, we have these letters... A lot of... we send your office – the Ombudsman's office – to you because people turn to you with a variety of questions and you also give them answers. And I thank you for having a place where people can turn to, whether it's about any restrictions on the community, or whether it's about its rights... that a person has the right to know his rights... It is very good that the institution of the Ombudsman, as such, is beginning to become truly strong in society and become more and more visible. It's a very big plus! I also sometimes have questions to which I do not know the answers, and I really look at the Ombudsman's website. The website is very transparent and there is easy to oriente, understand what is. I would like, Mrs Mourniece, to have two more minutes at my time. I would like to combine both times.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U11	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U12	Yeah, about that... For the Ministry of Welfare... In principle, there should be a bigger sazobe... The largest sozobie – ministries... with the Ombudsman. If this... Well, it's not a mark... But if the rating “weak” was said from the Ombudsman’s side, then I can say “very weak”. The problem is that. Imagine – now we also hear in the media that people with a community are no longer sick in the state social care centres. There's no... It's all right because they're all sick. Well, is that okay? I think that is not good. Parliamentary cooperation with ministers, at least within the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, seems to me to be below every criticism. I do not know, but I think that the Social and Labour Commission is exactly the same. And if the decision-making power is not able to relate to the executive power, where do we have this compass given, what to do, so that we can solve these problems, which are indicated in each of these annual reports – then how can some communication take place? Yesterday, too... We listened to the candidates who would like to take on the new... the position of Ombudsman. One of these is the current Parliamentary Secretary of the Ministry of Welfare. Then I understand that there, in the Ministry of Welfare, everything is either so bad that a person is beginning to go further and now wants to be an Ombudsman, or maybe it's very good, in his opinion, and then to go to the Ombudsman's office, perhaps. Members will decide, Members will also vote. On statistics. The implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations is as follows: in 2018 – 78 per cent of the recommendations were met, in 2019 – 89 per cent (so it is up) and in 2020 – 83 per cent (down). But in principle, the 2018 recommendations are for 2017. Then there was not yet the Ministry of Welfare of the present time... In principle, then these are the old merit that now... they decrease again by a percentage, down. And it's no more... This, in my opinion, is simply a gross omission on the part of the Minister concerned.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U13	Thank you. It's over. Name to Member Sergey Dolgopolov.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U14	Thank you. Madam President, Yes, Mr Janson has indeed put in place a very supportive and significant system in the work of the Ombudsman. It seems to me that this is very important, very right. And that should be it. Life is not a movie, and a number of situations that arise from life are reoccurred and will continue to occur, and it is very important to record what is happening and how it is happening, and also to send out appropriate signals so that the system is changed in these problematic matters too. I would therefore like to offer my sincere advice to the Ombudsman to look at a process called legislation. It seems to me that when we work on new laws, amendments to laws, we could at once – and we should! – also assess proposed amendments or new norms from the point of view of respect for human rights. Today is a bright example. We examined the draft law “Law on the rental of residential premises” – a new law that... to be honest, human rights have already been incorporated into the design itself, and I would say, the problem. This is about tenants of denationalised houses. This law generally excludes this category of people from the regulatory circulation. I think it would be perhaps interesting and it would also be very useful if the Ombudsman's Office turned to... if the laws and regulations that may affect the state of respect for human rights in the country, the Ombudsman’s Office would address them before they were adopted, declared and become operational. This moment of prevention seems to me to bring even better results than the response to what has already been adopted, which has already entered into force, which has already begun to work and has begun to create some problems in the area of respect for rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U15	Thank you. Name of Member Dagmara Beitner-Le Galla.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U16	Thank you. Hello, Mr. Janson! Dear colleagues, I have three comments or things I would like to highlight in this debate. First. As a member of the Commission on Human Rights and Public Affairs, I would like to say that we have had very good cooperation with the staff of the Ombudsman's Office. And I would like to emphasise in particular how important the letter from the Ombudsman concerning the adoption of children abroad was to us. It was very important that you pointed out these problems and we were able to act accordingly within the Commission. We have indeed had very good cooperation with the Ombudsman's Office. Secondly. For your report for 2020. I read the introduction to your report, and I was specifically addressed by your greatest achievement, as you wrote, of course – victory in the Constitutional Court case on the incoherence of persons' minimum income, social security system. And I congratulate you yesterday with the courage that you had come 10 years later, working in this office when you saw, say, this incoherence, and that this courage had come when you... The party that has led you to the office of President is, in fact, no longer a power party. I think that courage is good, and it looks like... spoke to a representative of this party just now and it seems that he already sees you as being re-elected to this post. This does not seem to me to be a democratic state – to be in the same position for such a long time. And thirdly. I would like to say that the last sentence of the introductory part of your report... It is a pleasure to read the reports we get to know – they have become shorter, more transparent. But... you wrote a case that seemed somewhat provocative to me, so I would like to hear your answer that during the communion you nevertheless stress that human rights are above everything. You are a patriot and specialist in your industry, of course, but I still... I would expect from you, as a professional and national thinker, a position that would teach our citizens more that citizens' rights and human rights are very and deeply linked to their responsibilities... duty... information... Let us not further spread the infection. That is, the part of the responsibilities relating to human rights and also to the rights of citizens... So I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you for your work, especially for the work of your colleagues. This has been very important for our commission and I look forward to further cooperation with the Ombudsman's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U17	The name of Member Julia Stepanenko.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U18	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, again! And the honourable Ombudsman! Yes, I must say with great regret that I would have liked to see in this report a lot more cases where the Ombudsman has exercised his statutory right to submit legislative proposals, that is to say, draft laws, which the Saeima often has to work on, in 15 minutes. And this readiness from the Ombudsman would also be expected, especially in these exceptional circumstances. I am talking about all these co-fabricated laws that come to the Saeima... who had come to the Saeima both in the first so-called communion and now and in which... It is imperative to be able to put forward proposals to support or reduce restrictions on people in this small time series so that people can continue to enjoy at least some kind of living. You know that. You yourself have mentioned in this report that you have received numerous letters because of the limitations imposed by the community due to the difficult lives of people in these circumstances. But I have to conclude that... Unfortunately, I have not noticed here in the Saeima any of your proposals in these laws that could help alleviate the situation. Perhaps you have worked on the Cabinet of Ministers' orders projects in the government, maybe you have tried to recommend a better solution in this situation, but... Unfortunately, this work may have been overlooked. If you have fought for people's right to living in the government, if you have fought for people's right to receive services in the government, then really – all the respect, the hat takes off! And I support you in this case. But, as the case shows, we discussed a lot in the Saeima... I'm talking about catering for schoolchildren in the first wave of the community... I regret to conclude that this understanding of the Ombudsman's side was rather weak. Talking about the fact that in the country, pupils were to be fed in the first wave of the community instead of spending this money on tablets, which all didn't get, unfortunately... In this case, the Ombudsman had to speak out very loud about it... together with the National Association, which initially joined but then forgot about which she joined... The Ombudsman had to stand for all children (all children – regardless of their family's material condition!) continue to receive catering, but it did not happen unfortunately – despite all... proposals made by Members. This, unfortunately, is an indicator that we should definitely correct, because, as we are likely to see from all the events in our neighbourhood, this plague will remain with us for some time, and this will also cause damage and plague people. And your task, Mr Janson, if you stay in this post, is to ensure that the government does not teach people the way the government does today. Unfortunately, this Ombudsman's report, too, in a way, if we are talking about the Covid-19, is more a complaint to the opposition about it... Well, what hasn't really been done... could have done... We can also complain about a lot of things. We can understand each other. You will understand us, we will understand you. However, in my opinion, the Ombudsman must enjoy much greater authority and be able to do much more. Thank you for your... on cases presented in the Constitutional Court, we expect to solve the issue of medical salaries as well, but... I have to say that the capacity of your office is large enough for you to do even more, especially when it comes to protecting people during these difficult times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U19	Name to Member Edgar Tavar. We can't hear you, Mr. Tatar. We can't hear it!
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U20	Dear President of the Saeima. Ombudsman! Dear colleagues, Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about human rights, not just the functions delegated... monitor and monitor... our Ombudsman's Office, the Ombudsman, but for human rights in general. We have talked a lot and a lot about people with special needs, whose rights are restricted or who are not guaranteed a decent, dignified life. We have talked a lot about the right of a person to his own home, about the opportunity to live safely in his own house... for safety, for the opportunity to live in your own house. We discussed human rights, freedom of expression, freedom as such last year. In my opinion, this time, the time of the pandemic, is particularly highlighted by the fact that we ourselves have enormous problems with freedom in our own country. Our Parliament has an opinion on restricting freedom in other countries, we condemn various authorities... authoritarian regimes, we condemn regimes against the opposition. What is happening in our country? Why should a head of a municipality be punished for addressing his citizens with the question of administrative territorial reform? Why do we remain silent when the Minister threats such a head of the municipality with law enforcement authorities that he asks the opinion of the people of his municipality? In my opinion, we must give the opportunity to speak to our people – we must give it incomparably more often! – and listen to them, not fear them. Even more, we don't have to punish people who turn to their people in any way. We restrict people’s freedom to gather under a pandemic. Freedom of assembly is, in fact, limited to zero, not even to compliance or non-compliance with epidemiological restrictions. People do not have the opportunity to express themselves in various protests, even one of them. Is that freedom?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, People have the right to work. Small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who have now been suspended by government decisions, have the right to save their small business so that they can resume once the pandemic ends. In this respect, the country must come to the aid – just like the developed European countries, where after the pandemic, when the green light will light up in the traffic, all these people will get to work next day; these jobs will be saved. We promised in spring support for rents; very many different promises were made by the government. These promises are not being fulfilled. People believe in these promises, but these promises disappear, and we are seeing ever-new waves of bankruptcy. We in Parliament have the right to work. We are the only parliament in Europe that does not work on the ground. The majority of our coalition makes decisions from bedrooms, from kitchens using a computer. We do not even have a qualitative debate. We have the right to a qualitative debate in Parliament – from the Parliamentary Chamber Tribunal. We have many problems in our own country. I don't even want to talk about government anymore... leading media that only reflect the views of the coalition or representatives of some parties. We lack diversity of opinion, we do not have a debate. And, above all, I would like to conclude by saying that we have the right... It is not only a right, it is a law: if we live in a parliamentary state and if a parliament makes a law or a decision, then we have the right to ask the government to enforce this decision. For example, quite recently, a few weeks ago, we voted for the right of children and young people to resume sports under epidemiological conditions. These parliamentary decisions are not being complied with. There are so many such decisions in this House. I don't even want to talk about non-compliance with the medical fees for the promises made, about non-compliance with the OIC's elimination promises... and similar promises. So I really... Colleagues, I join with those Members who call for us to give more powers to the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman's Office, so that its recommendations are not just those areas that currently allow the Ombudsman's Office's capacity to be reviewed, but that, in the future, we can also take a much broader look at the country and its development as a whole, so that people can have hope in that country. To prevent people regularly being deceived by various governmental promises that are not then fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U21	Thank you, Mr. Tatar. Colleagues! So that society is not misled (I understand that this debate is also being listened to and watched by Latvian society), I will say: we are not necessarily the only parliament working remotely. A number of other parliaments are also working at a distance. But the quality of the debate – yes, it is important, and it depends on us, the parliamentarians. We are continuing the debate. Name to Member Andris Kazinovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U22	Hello, honourable Speaker of the Saeima! Dear colleagues, I examined and analysed the Ombudsman's report for 2020. In my view, one very important issue is not reflected. In particular, we have been talking about regional differences in this Saeima for a long time... the difference between many districts, between regions and the capital city of Riga. And this is no longer about one person or a single group; it is about living standards for residents of whole regions compared to other regions. And this difference is huge, it's a number of times... The standard of living of the population, characterised by gross domestic product per capita, varies three to four times... Latgale, Vidzeme, Kurzeme, Zemgale... compared to the standard of living of the residents of Riga, to the gross domestic product per capita. I understand that this is a political issue, it is a chronic problem in Latvia. I understand that Latvia's regions are far behind many other Member States of the European Union, but I would like to remind you of the fundamental need... why the European Union was born. In particular, one of the main challenges when European countries agreed to create the European Union was support for lagging regions. States also made their contribution, their financial contribution, to the overall budget of the European Union. A certain part – for administration, for the European Parliament, for the European Commission, but most of the funds – in the form of different funds, in the form of European Structural Funds – were directed specifically towards regional development, and one of the main criteria was that of gross domestic product per capita. Since Latvia's accession to the European Union, it has already taken some time, but still many politicians, leading politicians... the parties have not understood the substance. It is well-founded that Latvia is lagging behind... But! Latvia is defined as one administrative region for the classification of NACE 1 and NACE 2. That is not right. In recent times, we have been very much discussing this administrative territorial reform and there was a wish to incorporate... the existence of administrative regions; each of the regions could be compared and supported at European level, both in the form of structural funds and in the form of public budget support. Nothing like that has happened. This policy is continuing. So... We predict that in a separate part of the population living in regions... This disproportion, this gap, is even more so. Well, what is the fault of these people who live on the peripherals of our country, such as the eastern border, who remain absolutely empty?Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think the Ombudsman should have been very... attention should be paid to this issue, this analysis, should interfere with the budgetary processes of the establishment of the National Development Plan. How else can we equalise these various developments? We can lose the country. And the pension won't say anything anymore... I ask for speaking time to be combined.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U23	The debate times are united.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U24	Yeah, thank you. Dear Mr. Janson. I admit that you have done a lot of work, there is a lot of positive, but you have to close your eyes and see this problem in the country of Latvia – it is not a worthy act of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia. I don't know... I hope that there will be an Ombudsman, a new Ombudsman, maybe you too, but I would then wish you personally... and the next Ombudsman to intervene in these processes urgently, as soon as possible. I would like to say, however, that what the Ombudsman does is sympathise with many citizens. However, ensuring a balanced development would have an even greater impact on the strengthening of the country. Dear colleagues, I would like us to understand this problem together. I look forward to the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Latvia on the issues related to administrative territorial reform. I believe that we, yes or no, will establish these regions, administrative regions, as administrative areas and achieve balanced development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U25	Thank you. The debate is not yet closed. Name to Member Vjačeslav Dombrovskis.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U26	Dear colleagues, Mr. Janson! I won't spend a lot, too much of your time. Of course, I might also want you to have enough time... There would be more time to focus on both the lunch issue and that and the other question... But yet... This year, this year... In the draft budget of the Government, there are social positions, if I am not mistaken, by more than 80 million euros, thanks to those applications to the Constitutional Court, which you, Mr Jansons, have submitted directly to the Ombudsman's office. In my memory... I do not remember any other law enforcement officers who would have achieved an increase of more than EUR 80 million in the social cost line of the state budget. I think that basically everything has been said with this. Thank you, Mr. Janson.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U27	I closed the debate. Mr Janson, would you like to comment on what Members said?
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U28	Yeah, if you can. Very short.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U29	Name to Ombudsman Juris Jansons.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U30	Thank you very much for the evaluation of my work and that of my colleagues, and also for the recommendations. Let us take these recommendations into account in future work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-LV_2021-02-25-PT13-2203-U31	Thank you once again to the Ombudsman's Office staff for their work and to Mr Janson for his report. Dear colleagues, Thus, we have examined the report of 2020 by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Latvia. And I must inform you of the question that has been tabled by Members. Members Stepanenko, Tavars, Sprūde, Švecova and Gobzems submitted the question “On purchases of facial hygiene masks”, which we hand over to the Prime Minister for a reply. Dear colleagues, There's also a record of Members. Registration has taken place. So I closed the sitting.
