ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u1	Good morning to all, the country's distinguished deputies of Ukraine, invited and guests! People's deputies please register. [[10:02:34]] The 274 national deputies of Ukraine were registered. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with a pleasant one: we have two jewelers today, two nouns. Let me welcome Moskal Hennady Hennadiyovich and welcome Tomenko Mikola Volodymirovich on his birthday. [[Congrats]] [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! We have an extremely complex agenda today. And in view of the fact that we are preparing for the arrival of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a technical statement has been made by the two factions to begin the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and more precisely to take a 30-minute technical recess, since not all the Ukrainian national deputies have arrived at the Supreme Council Hall, and with a view to having us hold a normal meeting of the Supreme Council. In view of this, I announce a 30-minute recess for the arrival of the President of Ukraine and the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Regrettably, according to paragraph 51 of Part Seven of the Rules, consultations continue, including on the application of the rules of the Rules. In view of this, the Head of the Supreme Council takes advantage of his legal right and continues until 12:30. Here's the thing. Dear National Deputies! And I'm noting, I'm addressing all the MP factions and all those who, including initiating the break, as Head of the Supreme Council, I'm actually declaring a break for the last time. I ask that we start the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at 12.30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u3	Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko takes part in the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask that we all welcome the President. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me inform you about the outcome of yesterday's Conciliation Council meeting, which I would like everyone to hear and approve with a proper procedural decision. There was a meeting of the Conciliation Council yesterday. And in agreement with the Conciliation Council, a decision was taken on the submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a draft decision in part of the change of order and order in the consideration of issues at this plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. I would like to remind you that article 16 of the Supreme Council Rules defines the sequence, including the article itself, as well as the decision of the Ukrainian national deputies. In view of the fact that we have a five - day deadline for considering the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Conciliation Council unanimously approved the decision to begin work at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the formation of the government of Ukraine. I'm going to take a brief look at legal terminology on how to form the government of Ukraine. This is the adoption of several decisions to be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The first is the introduction by the President of Ukraine of the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Second: after this introduction, we have a procedure for a report by a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Rules are set for up to 20 minutes. The second is a round of questions and answers. Rules are set for up to 30 minutes. Third: a discussion procedure is under way. The rule also provides for up to 30 minutes. And in general, the whole procedure has to take up to one hour. Then comes the voting procedure. I would like to point out that the procedure under the Rules is followed by what is called an open-ended roll-call vote. After a decision on the Prime Minister's candidacy, we make that decision. In view of this, honourable national deputies, I would like to ask everyone to listen very carefully. I am putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda and the change in the order of the order of the day, namely, the inclusion in the agenda of the daily question of the formation of the government of Ukraine, which is formed out of the five sub-questions that I have already mentioned, is the appointment of the Prime Minister, the release of the previous Prime Minister, the termination of the powers of the previous composition of the government, the appointment of a new composition of the government, and the last question is the suspension of the powers of the people's deputies elected to the Ukrainian government, five questions. I'm asking you to ask the vote for inclusion in the agenda. Please vote. [[12:38:37]] For 246 Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, decision taken, 271 votes. Let me show you through the factions. Sorry about the factions. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we form the agenda for the day-to-day consideration of the formation of the Ukrainian government. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Supreme Council Rules, I now give the floor to the candidate for office, the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko Viktor Andryovich. Please, Victor Andryovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u4	Dear national deputies, distinguished Arsenija Petrovich, ladies and gentlemen! It is a great honor for me today to address the National Parliament of Ukraine as a constituency of the interests of the Ukrainian nation and of the Ukrainian choice. First of all, honourable national deputies, I would like to welcome you with the decisions of Ukrainian voters, Ukrainian citizens, on September 30, this year. Today we have an updated composition of the Supreme Council and we are convinced that it is our common victory that we have come out of a massive, enormously prolonged parliamentary crisis through a peaceful way, fair, and, equally important, legal. A review of the political results of the previous elections, ignoring the Constitution of Ukraine, political corruption, and very often the Sabbath of permissiveness are the main reasons why the Fifth Assembly Parliament has ceased its existence. These are the lessons with which, I am convinced, the Ukrainian politician comes out of the work of the Fifth Assembly of the Ukrainian Parliament. I would like to emphasize that today Ukraine is emerging from this crisis. Ukraine is not easy. Convinced that the outcome of this crisis, the achievement of political stability, is the current issue number one. Every political power, regardless of its flag or ideology, today must clearly understand that political instability takes away Ukrainian perspectives, Ukrainian possibilities. After all, the political crisis, the parliamentary crisis is the brakes of our political, social and humanitarian development. How can we achieve stability in these uneasy walls, in Parliament with unforgivable summons? Convinced that we should put national priorities above all else. Nothing ever unites people as a goal. To think today about the interests of the faction and to ignore the interests of the majority or minority is, in my opinion, a big mistake today, to think about the interests of the majority or minority and at the same time to ignore the interests of the state is a crime. And therefore, I am convinced that stability in the Ukrainian Parliament will not lead to the distribution of parliamentary committees, although it is important not to distribute ministerial portfolios, although it is also important that the presidency of the Supreme Council of Ukraine be not distributed, although it is also important. A consensus in the Ukrainian Parliament, convinced, will bring about a policy that aims to implement key national priorities. The higher the goal, the more stable we can expect in the walls of the national parliament. For great purposes, there are no wicked ways. And those great dignitaries sitting in the Ukrainian Parliament today are members of the Sixth Call, convinced that they clearly understand that no political power, like any national MP, can be in opposition to Ukraine. That's a great goal for which I'm sure we should all swear and work. Of course, the first thing I want to wish for the Ukrainian Parliament is mutual respect, understanding and human dignity. I warmly welcome the establishment of a democratic coalition of parliamentary factions that won a total election this year. I believe in the prospect of this work, and I want all kinds of good things. [[Applause]] To emphasize, I have been and will always be a trusted ally of the Ukrainian Parliament. I am convinced that no sign of a nation's decision should be taken outside the walls of the Ukrainian Parliament. I have been, I emphasize, and I will stand in these positions. Although we surely face great challenges and great trials. I believe that the new Parliament will demonstrate normal and productive work for the nation and the country. That is what our voters most expect. Together we must restore the political and moral authority of the single legislative body of the state, and then the entire authority. I'm sure we don't have time for delays. In carrying out my constitutional duty, in accordance with article 106, at the suggestion of the coalition of MP factions, I submit your approval and ask that you support the submission for appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I also submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and ask for support for the appointment of Yehanurov Yuri Ivanovich as Minister of Defence of Ukraine and Ogryzka Vladimir Stanislavovic as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council, distinguished national deputies, ladies and gentlemen! I believe in our work together. I say directly, there will be no hostility in these walls between the political forces that want to work for the national interests of Ukraine. The nation and state are higher than political and party membership. That is why I believe that there must be a new quality of cooperation in Parliament, expressed in full legislative work, in human resources, in the fair distribution of powers. There's a chance. I'm willing to come with you all this way to implement it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Following the requirements of article 200 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the following procedure for consideration is proposed. Once again, the candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine speaks with a brief report for up to 20 minutes and then in two blocks: questions and answers, and discussions. Is there a denial? There's no objection. In view of this, I ask Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrnýn as a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine to make a brief report on the main activities in the possible position of Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u6	Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! Today we really find that in Parliament, after the early elections, it's quite obvious that the government is forming, giving direction, changing power, criticizing the people of Ukraine. I think that in 17 years we've come to this situation where really politics becomes stronger, cleaner and completely dependent on people's choices. I remember wonderfully when the elections began early, and I want to thank the President of Ukraine for having taken place because they have preserved both the people's choice and the honour of Parliament. And when the election took place for the term we've heard so much arguing with you that nothing will change, that everything will be as always, that we'll see a changing political spectrum that doesn't depend on people's support. But early elections demonstrated that people today are good at politics. Part of the politicians no longer came to Parliament, part of the politicians returned to parliament, even while they were away for a while. And we see today and beyond that the most valuable thing that politicians have to do is to follow the word that politicians give to people in elections. And I think for all of us, for our democratic team, the first priority is every commitment we made to people must be clearly implemented. And if we follow this basic guideline, the political forces will strengthen, work more effectively, and produce results for society. And I think if Ukrainian society sees again among our political environments instead of working again corruption, again betrayal, again sales, I think they'll make their choice again and again, and put everything in place. And now that a democratic coalition has been formed, and no other procedure other than the choice of the people has affected the formation of the coalition, we can firmly say that the main priority of our joint team, the main priority of a possible new government, must be to carry out, not the current situational work, but the deep professional, clear transformations in every sphere of our lives, from the constitutional sphere to the issues of creating the best that we are capable of, the investment climate and the climate for small and medium-sized businesses. And as we move on to the social issues that finally need to be identified by a pension reform that will remove all discrimination against our pensioners and deep tax reform, we will be able to do everything we can to show a high-level reform of every aspect of our lives. And the team that was chosen today fully meets these requirements. But including our task is what no government and no political team has ever done before. This is an inventory, in practice, where, in what areas of government, where, in what areas of our social life, corruption, chaos, lobbying, and dishonesty exist, where we have prescribed injustice and destruction of human dignity. And on the basis of this inventory go one step at a time, and close all these dirty holes, and show the world that we are really a country that may not stand in the last places in the world at the level of corruption and at the level of shadow economy in our country. I believe that we can do this because we have the freedom to do this, we are not bound by any shadow business obligations, we have the will to do it, and we have the team to do it. And to start, I think, clearing up Ukrainian power from anything that doesn't like the world or the Ukrainians, I think we need the new authorities to open up to control completely and completely. We have nothing to hide, we have nothing to hold back from our actions. Therefore, I would like one of the first bills in our Parliament to be adopted by the Opposition Bill. And I think there's practically going to be a parliamentary opposition here. And we, as a democratic coalition, are open to giving extremely strong rights to the Court of Auditors. To make the Court of Auditors much more powerful than any other supervisory authority in the state, to give it special status, and to allow the opposition to appoint to the House of Accounts, not the one chosen by the majority, namely, the composition of the opposition, what it takes to have in this position, which man. I am convinced that we will be able to do everything we can to work in the Ukrainian Parliament, the Interim Investigation Commissions, which, in every direction, can initiate not only control, but also to bring responsibility to every official who violates the Constitution that violates the laws and violates generally the moral rules and norms of politics. I think we will return with you to create special parliamentary review committees, which are also granted almost equal status to special commissions of inquiry. I want to know the parliamentary opposition that there is no such requirement to increase the control functions of opposition that we are not satisfied with. And so our new authorities will take a step to ensure that all the following authorities are completely transparent, clear, controlled and accountable. And I don't see such a mechanism when power is controlled by power itself, and it's controlled by the power structures that most people and the authorities are assigned to. I think a better controller than a parliamentary opposition with tools in hand can't be. And I want to tell you one last thing, because I'm not going to use the entire policy in 20 minutes, and I think if we're going to protect the government program, I'm going to go in every direction of reforming the country. What I would really like to see is happening in the new parliament. I am very sorry that when Ukraine is voted on as a matter of priority with regard to Ukraine's national interests, Parliament divides into foreign countries, that is, someone exercising values of the past, someone exercising values of the past, someone manifests completely incomprehensible values of shadow capital. I would like to see, as in other parliaments, that power and opposition, when it comes to Ukrainian national interests, be the only vote that can be given in defence of Ukraine. I know we'll be able to find an understanding on all kinds of issues. Yes, indeed, there are cowards who watch how he plays, for example, Dnipro, there are ‘Battlers’, there are ‘Dinamo’ fans, but when a national assembly team plays, we all suffer the same way. And I would like to see a national assembly of Ukraine born in Parliament and have the ability to make Ukraine the most powerful European state. So that our national Ukrainian identity is not a subject of strife and opposition, so that we know that this is our primary value, which determines our strength and our ability to be competitors in world space. I believe this, and I know that it will not be long before our team builds, not a situational solution, but in every area of the system that no one can destroy or break. And then, I think the question of coalition will be much easier. I believe in Ukraine! I believe that Ukraine has its national team and I will serve it despite all the opposition and despite all the obstacles. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u7	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. The report is completed, and I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to sign up for the question of putting their candidate in office, the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please sign up from the scene. Please, Shevchenko Andry Vitaliyovich, Yulia Timoshenko Block, please, Andry Vitaliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u8	Julia Volodymyrna, I'm sure you'll be Prime Minister today and there will be a government in Ukraine that will finally start reforms that are so important to the countries. I have a question, how will the government of Julia Tymoshenko, a model of two thousand in the seventh year, differ in its work from the government of the 2005 model? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u9	Thank you. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u10	Dear friends, I think we're all forgetting the government's work in 2005. Despite all the not-so-beautiful words that have been in favour of our government, I want to remind you that over a month and a half we've reviewed the country's financial policy and created a budget that is nearly seventy percent higher than the revenues from the closure of shadow circuits and the reduction of part of taxes. I want to remind you that it was our government that in 2005 reviewed more than five thousand normative acts that created additional, no one needed regulatory functions for business and made a corrupt bullion for business in the country. I want us to mention how in 2005 we shut down the smuggling and everything that's unfavourable for the work of the Ukrainian authorities. Sadly, we have not been able to bring the matter to a logical conclusion. Today, however, I would like to be a beneficiary of the government’s work in two fifths of the year, at two quarters in the seventh year.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u12	And I know that the team that's meeting in the government is worthy and strong.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u13	Thank you. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, Litvina Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u14	Dear Julia Volodymyr, I would like to hear your point of view, your significance for reform, and political reform. That is, in the section on increasing the role and status of local governments and changing electoral legislation, or the transition to a major system, or the change in the proportional system, when elections are linked either to regions or to major districts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u15	As for the additional power, and the actual authority that we must give to the local authorities of self-government, our political power and our democratic team are consistent in that the local self-government authorities need not simply to get promises or empty declarations, they need to get real power because of the right to create executive structures in local self-government. Moreover, I would like to have the opportunity with you to review electoral legislation and to make sure that, leaving a proportional electoral system, we still have a clear entrenching of deputies in certain districts. In order for the deputies to work loyally in these districts, they will be listed depending on the support each member of the district has received from the citizens. And I dream that we and the citizens of the community will be given additional opportunities and responsibilities. So that the officials of the local stitch do not finally talk about what is beautiful.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u16	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. I'm asking you to finish because we have a lot of deputies written down. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u17	In order for citizens to have the opportunity to hold local referendums and remove power or determine when elections are to be held or to do what the community wants them to do. There are virtually no referendums today and there are no laws or reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u18	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u19	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, today I will remind you of December 11th, and that means that by the end of the calendar year, there are not enough and fundamental issues to be left of the mechanism, procedure and principles for the formation of Ukraine's core budget document, considering that the previous government is passing the country in a known state with known gas prices. How do you see the principles of the formation of this budget, the main priorities, I would say, such basic things as the core economic document for the following year?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u20	If all the votes are successful today, the government will meet for its first government meeting tomorrow. And I think that the top priority in the first weeks of the new year is to practically develop the State Budget and transfer it to the Supreme Council for approval by the Supreme Council. I think we will do everything we can to ensure that the budget is adopted in a timely manner, by the new year, and that this budget is, in some way, even in these two weeks, responsible for our programming principles of our two political forces, which have created a democratic coalition. We will be able to make sure that Ukraine does not lose its authority as a result of its lack of budget. And I know that we have adopted, you know, to drop, especially, the politicians men, I'm sorry, the previous authorities like to do this: to take responsibility for the opponents, for the opposition, for the predecessors. I want to tell you that we're not going to translate responsibility into anyone, we're strong enough to take full responsibility for ourselves, even with the flaws we get as an inheritance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u21	Thank you. Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich, Timoshenko Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u22	Please give the floor to the deputy of Jabor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u23	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u24	Dear Mrs. Julia, we're interesting to the world, especially to our culture, we're not going to reach by cars or TVs -- we've already done this to others. Today, Ukrainian intelligence justly declares Ukraine a zone of cultural disaster. The previous government, I won't mention it, had a poet Anna Ahmetov, had a beautiful singer, you know who we're talking about, Arteomovsky, he was called. We haven't actually had a cultural government yet, except in the face of the government of Yushchenka and yours. Today, the government has spent one and a half times as much money on holding prisons as it has on maintaining Ukrainian culture. Well, I understand this sentiment about prison structures, that's perfectly clear. I have a question for you. Will you finally give your hand to Ukrainian culture, to your government, or not? I believe it will be, that you will put it first. Once again, we're interesting to the world primarily by culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u25	I think that in our program today, which is called the Ukrainian Breakdown, not for politicians, but for people, and this program is really the program that we will be doing together with the democratic coalition has the first priority, it is the development and strengthening of the spirituality of the Ukrainian people, development, reinforcement, and full support for Ukrainian culture. And I think these priorities will remain both budget priorities and priorities for government decision-making, and I believe that this will be a priority for the legislative vote in our democratic coalition. I truly believe and believe that if we don't give priority to this particular direction, it will be very difficult for us to carry out any economic reform, it will be very difficult for us to raise the Ukrainian spirit of the nation to do so if we don't make it an absolute priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u26	Silent Pavel Mihajlovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u27	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, I really like the new formula that you just gave us, the new national Ukrainian idea, operating on all of our deep foundations. I have a question for you. In view of the fact that the informational language problem is very important to us, I would like to hear from you whether we will continue to be observers of how the National Channel has essentially become a national channel, as an information sphere occupied by many electronic media, not by Ukrainians. What we need to do in this area. And the second question is the question of the village, the rebirth of it, because without the restoration of the Ukrainian village, we can't essentially make the Ukrainian national breakthrough. And the last. I would like the Ukrainian National Assembly to take part in the world’s priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u28	Dear friends, I think since the Orange Revolution with you, we have much more solid freedom of speech in Ukraine. Indeed, much has changed since this point in our Ukraine with regard to freedom and the right of journalists to express their opinion, the availability of politicians to virtually every possible media medium. And taking advantage of the fact that all media representatives have practically gathered at such events after the approval of the new government, I want to thank you all for having a completely different information space since 2005. I want to thank our journalists for their courage, for their ability to form completely true information today. And I know that politicians today don't try to get to the air, and sometimes they reflect on how often they don't go there. And this is our great acquisition. But I am convinced that social speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u29	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u30	Social television and radio talk is our common goal, our common goal, so that we can demonstrate the full variety of information space.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u31	Thank you. Sharov Igor Fedorovich, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u32	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, please give the floor to Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u33	Oleg Zarubinski, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u34	Thank you very much. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, in the pre-election program of your block is, in our view, absolutely the right and just position. I quote: “The country will belong only to Ukrainian citizens who live and work on it.” In this regard, I have a question: How do you view the earth’s market in its entirety, for you are well aware that in this case the earth will be in the hands of those who do not live on it, but are no longer working on it, with whom is the great money? And the second question. The President of Ukraine also rightly said that today more than 60 percent of people are holding their savings in dollars, and it's not their fault, it's their fault. What will be your position and policy on the exchange rate of dollars, since, as far as we know, certain ideologies for the recalculation of bracelets are also in your block? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u35	You know, I respect you, and you've been a national deputy for many years, and you have experience, and you can't help but know that monetary policy is approved in Parliament and then implemented by the National Bank. And it's not the government's prerogative to set currency rates, it's totally not the government, it's a policy that's made up of the market and the National Bank of Ukraine. And so I can only welcome the policy of the Supreme Council and the National Bank to strengthen our national currency. And I think that now our national currency, in all of the virtually market trends, is the best thing to store. And people are going to feel it very quickly and they're going to be saving their money right in the bracelets, because today it's convenient, actually, in all the exchange processes that are going on in the banking markets. This is the first one. The second is that of the earth. You know that our political power voted in favour of the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u36	Let me finish, this is a very important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u37	to make agricultural land a commodity. And we think that in the chaos that legislation is currently in, at this point, it's unacceptable things. But on the other hand, we can't help but know that today, in the shadow sector, agricultural land is being sold in full motion, the direction of land use is changing, and it's practically going to a market where peasants are given copies and then sold for the real market value of speculators. These processes need to be halted by adopting all the laws that provide for the country's civil market, and then together, deciding by all parliament, to move on to other land relations models.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted your permission to consult. We have 66 more speakers. If you'll excuse me, there's been a proposal from the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko to determine whether we're going to give those factions that are still written down, which random numbers generator counted below in the table, i.e. the Communist faction and the Lithuanian Block faction, are we still going to follow the list that is provided for us by the record?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u39	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u40	Dear friends, I think there's a lot of work to be done for future government officials, and that's why the issues are actually understood for everyone, and all the factions that were able to sign up, log in and get a chance to ask questions, is the proposal to raise risks and move on to factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u41	If we just don't change the order right now, I'm worried that other factions won't be able to speak, because they're now written down, actually, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine". [[It's a faction of Communists and the "Block of Lithuania"]] There's no denying that I'm going to give the word that goes on the list right now, to descend into the 17th position, the factions of the communists? Is there no objection? Thank you. Communist faction, Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u42	Thank you. Julia Vladimirovna, on the 5th channel yesterday, a member of your faction, Omelchenko Grigory, said that during the election campaign there was corruption and, let us put it this way, laziness for being part of the faction on the electoral list. How can you comment on that? - One. And the second. You're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, you're, uh, you're, uh, you're, uh, Why? Because you didn't say a word about the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like you to specifically say what kind of Prime Minister do you want to be, under the conditions of the Republic of Parliament-President or the President-Parliamentary? Why? Because you promised to vote in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u43	Well, on the first question, I'd like to say the following about the statements, the speeches, and everything else. Dear friends, to this day, including during the election campaign, all the power structures -- the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs -- were formed at the hands of most then, practically, your team. And I think you've been counting on their quality work. And if your power structures didn't give any signals on this subject, they didn't give any evidence and no evidence, so far it's just a conversation. Our political forces went absolutely straight to the polls. And you know that a large part of our list is made up of people's deputies who formed their mandates and then came in the same order to the Supreme Council, on the list. And that's why pretensions can only be to the force structures that you're currently leading. As for the government, I will have time to present every government official, to speak of his career.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u44	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u45	I'll tell you about his abilities and the government. And I want to point out once again that under the current Constitution, the Government of Ukraine does not review the Constitution on its own. And that's why we're going to live and work in that constitutional field that the Supreme Council is going to offer us. And if today's Constitution works and works, it's just the boundaries that we're going to work in. Parliament will adopt by three hundred votes, or referendum, a new constitution, or amendment -- the government will be subject to and clearly adhere to every position of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u46	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u47	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. First of all, I would like to thank you for listening to the voice of the people. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, would you agree that the National Assembly should somehow limit the number of legions and that the National League should not be judged by foreign judges because the truth is much more expensive?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u48	I completely agree with you. And, by the way, in politics and football, I'm all for it. For us to have fewer legions, then we'll be more likely to hurt over national assemblies. And I can tell you that our team will stand exclusively in the positions of national interest in Ukraine. And I think you'll find that. And if we deal with Renata Leonidovich about the number of legions of football teams, I think we're going to have fewer of them, and we're going to see Ukrainians there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 11 minutes to answer. There are two approaches. Approach one: I'm going on record. Approach two: who raises the hand, who insists on the performance, we have within 11 minutes, excuse me, on the question, within 11 minutes, we have the opportunity to work. I beg you then, the second approach, who insists on the speech? According to the Rules, Your Honor Peter Mikolaiovich, I want to inform you, I am asking the National MPs: if there is no objection, then I give you my word. If there is a objection, you will not receive the word under the Rules, Your Honor Peter Mikolaiovich, as you have written down about 20 with something. I'm sorry. According to the Rules, the faction of Communists insists that everything be done without question by the Head of the Supreme Council and by turning to the Hall, because, I think, I have to work with the Hall. Then we'll work with the car. Scubenko Volodymyr Petrovich, Timoshenko's Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u50	Dear Julia Vladimirovna, you know that one of Ukraine's most ill industries is the coal industry. The latest tragic events that have taken place in this sector have brought her to her attention. Please tell them that in recent years no mine has been built in Ukraine, what will be the policy of the new Cabinet of Ministers in the coal industry?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u51	Well, first of all, I've been working twice in the government -- once in the prime minister's office, once again in the prime minister's office, once again in the prime minister's office, I'm telling you that the main priority of our country is the development of coal production, which supports our real political independence, our energy independence, and gives us the projected strategy for hundreds of years ahead. And that's why our team has arranged to keep the Ministry of Coal Industry within the government. We offer to serve as the minister of the coal industry, a man who has been respected for many years, appreciates the entire coal sector from coal miners to coal - mining managers. And I know that this person can give a whole new quality and a new impetus to the development of the coal industry. Our position will be obvious. The main investments of the country must go into the development of the coal sector as the basis for the country’s energy security. But remember, our miners get what they get today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u52	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u53	Three times less wages, even than in the SND areas, are being paid by miners, and according to recent tragedies on mines, their lives are absolutely not protected by the system or leadership or by the practical politics of Ukraine. I think we need to change our approach here. And I support the proposal of both the democratic coalition and the Vladimir Lithuania faction to create a special commission of inquiry in the Supreme Council to study the coal situation, including at the level of financial flows.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u54	Oilynik Svetoslav Vasilovich, Yulia Block Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u55	Dear Julia Volodymyrna, it is clear that the high office of Prime Minister requires the care of every citizen and every region of our state. However, as a representative of the region, which is your Fatherland, I would still like to ask. Can Dniproperty count on the fact that, at last, the central executive authority will come back face to face with its own region that is yours, once again, to emphasize? And the issues that hurt the day-to-day propellers, and that we talked about today in the election campaign, like the construction of a metropolis, like the water supply of rain centers and villages, like rural hospitals and kindergartens, will finally be resolved through a new government. That's the first question. And the second. You know very well that the government that has gone has given authority to the newly elected Supreme Council to this day wage an intransigence war with the children of war. With court rulings in hand, we cannot today achieve the protection of this category of citizens. Please tell them, please, can we assure them that we will finally give them due under the law for your premiere? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u56	First of all, I was really born, and almost all of my life, I spent the first part of my life in Dnipropetrovsk, in the Dnipropetrovsk district. And I love my country, and I respect the day-olds, and I appreciate their support. And I think that both the Dnipropetrov region and all the other areas of Ukraine will feel that there's a power in Ukraine that cares about the lives of every region, and people will feel change, I think quickly enough. As for children of war, these are usually pensioners, people who are now forced to live on 400-600 dollars a month in colossal inflation. We will protect pension reform, an honest approach to the retirement of every pensioner in the country, and including children of war who have been unable to receive protection for many years.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u57	Thank you. Hubski Bogdan Volodymyrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u58	Dear Julia Volodymyrically, next question. When you studied the socio-economic situation in our country and people's needs, you said that one of the most important problems today in Ukraine is the problem of returning lost savings to Savings. According to recent social studies, 92.5 percent of Ukrainian citizens support your formulation, namely, in two years to return the money. There's a lot of questions for people. Here were the voters, especially last week I was in a number of areas of Ukraine, and knowing that there would be a vote for you, for the Prime Minister, I was asked by the electorate from a number of villages and Cherkaščina, and the Kyiv region to formulate such a question. People ask, on what basis would you be able to get these deposits back in two years? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u59	I'm very sorry that the politics of Ukraine in 17 years is used to thinking that return, for example, to exporters' VAT is a priority. Returning, for example, to any large corporations of money at any rate, any payment for any action, is absolutely, of course, a commitment to power. And the fact that the coins that people keep on their savings books are almost their last hope in life, somehow the politicians don't think about it. There's an explanation: inflation, a lack of money, and that's not the first question at all. I would like us to change our priorities and allow the state authorities in Ukraine to have the honor and conscience of those who for 30 years collected these bracelets, then rubles, on their savings books. And I believe that private property, including savings, is a matter of honour for the democratic coalition. And to return them to the people, that's the first step we're going to take, returning the old debts. And turn around.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u61	And to return this money, so that there's no inflation, it's not a question of people being indebted, it's a question of the expertise of an authority that is either capable or incapable. I can't. There's nothing to go on. We're capable and we'll be back in two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u62	We've got three minutes left, Taran Victor Vasilovich, the Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u63	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! The state is strong when it stands on spiritual stones, and what spirituality do we have, for example, when less than one book is published on the soul of the population, in Russia -- about ten, in France -- about twenty. And what are the steps that your government will take to make Ukraine a Ukraine, not, say, a cosmopolitan, non-spiritual territory where the Ukrainians once lived? And Ukraine will again be Ukraine when it is consummated. And on the Human Rights Committee, hopefully, we will consider the program we have developed to bring the Ukrainians back to their homeland. Once again, the government will act to unite all of Ukraine into one family, all of Ukraine's natives around the world, scattered across the oceans, in “Russians” all over the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u64	I think that's one of the key issues that needs to be addressed to the government. And we all have statistics that, according to different estimates, about five million Ukrainian citizens are leaving, or seasonally, or long-termly working outside Ukraine, leaving their children behind in Ukraine, and the reason for this is definitely one reason: the inability of the authorities to create conditions where a person can have a job and a decent salary, be protected and not enslaved by officials, and this causes us to lose and lose highly professional people. Our task is to gather Ukrainian citizens around the world not by calling, not by belief, but by creating conditions that will be competitive compared to other countries of the world in order for Ukrainian citizens to come, live and work in Ukraine. And here's two things: this is to take down the tremendous pressure that's being exerted today on small business, so that people, on their way back, have the opportunity for this small business to have a second, it's a payday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u65	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u66	Which would be competitive compared to other countries. Because we are fighting for people who will live and work in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u67	Thank you, Julia Volodymyrna. Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, this is the last question, “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Julia Volodymyrna, we have dealt with the issue of Ukrainian migrants and I have a question for you as well. As we know, the two political forces of “Fatherland” and “Our Ukraine” have started a fairly close cooperation with the European People's Party as the most powerful European political force. At the same time, it is known that the European People's Party has a rather restrictive attitude towards Ukraine's EU accession and favours the European Neighbourhood Police. Please tell us what arguments will be found by the government, together with the President of Ukraine and Parliament, in order to restore the trust of our European partners in order to speed up the processes of Ukraine's European integration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u69	Indeed, two of our political forces are members of a party association, a partying union of the European People’s Party. And I think the first step we have to do with you is actually build European standards and rules in Ukraine, and we certainly need to start with the politicians themselves, and, secondly, with the adaptation of European legislation in Ukraine. I think we're going to go through this, and we're going to be reliable partners for the European Union. And considering that this was the last question, I would like to conclude the answers to the questions, firstly, by thanking the democratic coalition of both our own faction and our partners in the Democratic Coalition "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense", President Viktor Andrievich Yushchenko of Ukraine for the trust you have expressed in me by proposing a run for Prime Minister. And I want you to know that this trust is very valuable to me, and I'm not going to lower that trust by any step, by word of word, even by looking at it. I think we're really going to work as Ukrainian authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u70	Thank you, Julius Volodymyr. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u71	And I think it's not just the democratic coalition, but the politicians and the people will be proud of the new power in Ukraine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u72	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr. Time for questions and answers, the honourable national deputies are exhausted. Now we have to move on to the next stage, this is a discussion on the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'm asking you to sign up from the rostrum. 30 minutes, just like we agreed. So five minutes each faction, please. I would like to ask Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, block of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u73	Dear Mr. President! Dear National Deputies! We went through a complex, electoral campaign, during which people expressed themselves about the position of our political forces. Each of the forces in this room has a different view of many things. However, we all worry about what our home country will be like in the future. We saw a proposal for the country to create a coalition of democratic forces and to start systemic economic reforms. How difficult it was, but two factions of "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" and BUT formed a democratic coalition, managed to elect the Supreme Council head and put out for approval of the House and the entire society the Prime Minister's candidature. We're convinced that this government should go to a whole series of top-notch things, it shouldn't switch to small things, it should focus on the main thing. Since tax reform and tax cuts are long overdue in the country, we need to see a new budget code and self - government reform. We see this new government as a government that will offer society and ensure that all of the President's social initiatives are implemented. We see this government as a government, above all, an economic and social reform. And in general, we in “Our Ukraine” believe that unifying a country may not be a mechanical combination of some political force and some political factions, but a joint work for economic reform. There will be far - reaching and high - quality reforms, which will mean a real and final unification of the country. And this is if you think it's broken up. We simply have different views about solving political problems or other problems. And now a democratic coalition will offer its solution to these problems. But at the same time, we are convinced that the importance of parliamentary opposition both in Parliament and in society should increase. That is why “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense” is not based on the logic of confrontation. We believe that opposition factions should have powerful and influential influence on the situation, both in Parliament and in the country as a whole. To that end, we are willing to accept concessions that have already been declared and others of the following nature. But of course, those who are currently in the parliamentary minority cannot feel those who are outside the process of adopting political decisions in the country, for that would not be right. Besides, I would like to emphasize the issue that is important to the democratic forces themselves, because we see this government, which I believe will today be chosen by a strong government of democratic reforms. At the same time, we would not like to see a repetition of the mistakes of 2005. The two forces that make up the government, as well as those non-party professionals who are invited to work in this government, should demonstrate unity in approaches. They should weigh it a hundred times before offering a solution to society. But this must be a decision that not only will all members of the democratic coalition in parliament agree, but even on key issues and our opponents. And it must certainly be a decision of an economic and social nature. If there is such an understanding of responsibility and such a work, it will be a fruitful and effective government long awaited by Ukraine. In fact, we are convinced that for the first time since 2005, President-elect Yushchenko now has a majority in parliament that he can fight against. Unfortunately, the situation for the country and for the elected president was neither in 2005 nor in 2006 nor in 2007. Now the democratic majority must create conditions for the national president to do something that will allow the country to take a sharp leap to European values, to European standards, to honest, clear and transparent European policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u74	Zubov Valentin Sergiyovich, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u75	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honourable Head, Your Honorable Fellow Members of the People's Deputies! I'd like to start by saying that, well, not everything is obviously good in our house and we realize that everything is not good. But we do feel a change in the wind. And as of today, our electorate, many citizens of Ukraine, the democratic forces are tying up hope for the changes that are to begin from now on. I would like to emphasise that for the first time in Ukraine, we have been given the opportunity to form a democratic coalition and a democratic majority in the Supreme Council. I and many of my colleagues have been going to this day for many years to finally get the full and real significance of the impact and the important solutions to those big problems, the huge problems that have arisen today, in Ukraine, first and foremost, in its economy. I want to go to everyone and say, and above all, to my colleagues in the Supreme Council, to the parliamentary opposition that we have no capocracy, we have no euphoria, we have a sense of great anxiety and great responsibility for the state of affairs that is in our country. I am fully aware of the range of issues, and above all, in the economic sphere, we will have to resolve our team. And since we've spoken many times today and we've used such sports and football topics, I want to say that we believe in our captain, we believe in our team. I'm sure our team in the Democratic Coalition will play well and well, but I want to point out once again that we are not going to win this game of parliamentary opposition and kill you naked. We want to overcome the economic situation that has really taken place today. We want to solve the problems of pension reform, the return of savings, the balancing of energy prices and the many things that our candidate for Prime Minister Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko has just said on this stand. I believe that we will have both the Prime Minister and the government today. I want to wish, both the Prime Minister and the government and our team, and the coach of our team of success in everything. I'm expressing a tremendous optimistic hope for this success and I'd like to quote one of our colleagues' words to the end. The coalition, a future-oriented young and powerful politician who sings in his song: “It will all be well,” was sung by Slavko Vakarczuk. I wish everyone success.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u76	Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u77	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Golovo, Madam nominee for prime ministership, colleagues! I will begin my statement with the quote: “The ongoing political instability is the result that many Ukrainian governments did not have a coherent policy reinforced by meaningful legal, administrative and economic reforms.” These are words from the 1st paragraph of the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which was adopted on 19 April 2007. During 16 years of independence, several sad traditions of government activity were formed. First of all, the duration of one government's work is a little over a year, and it's possible that if they don't get the prime minister's chair, they're starting to take it out of the president's office. Second, the same persons appear in the post of prime minister after a break. It seems that the lava of the dignitaries is very limited. Thirdly, every government assures that it will be better than the predecessors, but it turns out that it is reproducing a primitive access economy, a system in which the importance of how close you are to the top of a power pyramid and then to a government clock. In the pre-election programmes and in the coalition agreement, many places are allocated to the issue of combating corruption in general and political corruption in particular. But let us remember, was it not in the same room in February 2005 that it laid the foundation when appointments were signed for ministerial and governoral positions? The distribution of posts was based on a sad quota principle, which remained intact in 2006 and 2007. From where and the lack of professional level of officials at the central level and especially at the local level. So the fight against political corruption needs to start with the elimination of its source, the quota principle. That is what the political will of all branches of government should be directed to, for theft and corruption paralyze the state, causing technological retardation, legal and organizational incompetence. What a miracle for Asian tigers when officials act contrary to the interests of the national producer and the weariness of the basic and production funds has reached a critical limit. The situation in the agro-industrial complex is indicative. We were spoiled by discussions about the rich Ukrainian countries, whose resources are being used ruthlessly. At the same time, the cow’s area was halved compared to 1990. From this point on, the decline in animal production. Ukrainian citizens eat ice cream and fish of unknown origin, as well as transgenic products for dessert. The technological backlog will increase if education problems are no longer addressed. Higher - school teachers are alarmed, and the level of knowledge is dropping. If there is a lack of physical and mathematical education, this indicates that the state does not give due consideration to fundamental sciences that are the foundation of the technological breakthrough. And by the way, it's mathematics and physics that forms the foundation for the development of the logic of intelligence, the world view of the scientific and technological process. And finally, about the main thing. The reform of local authorities will not replace the whole policy of regional development, and the need for such policies is confirmed by the rise in socio-economic disparities between specific areas. We need to go back to the state-wide small city development programme, approved by, by the way, the Supreme Council, the Regional Development Promotion Act. State regional policy should not only have socio-economic dimensions, but also some cultural and ideological fulfillment. It is necessary to refuse to impose the values of one region on another, an interregional dialogue, and the search for common ideals. Only in this way will the government be able to carry out a policy of joining the country, overcoming the negative consequences of the events of late 2004. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u78	Thank you. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u79	Dearly-respected people's deputies! What requirements do we make for candidates for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine? What qualities should a person leading the executive vertical in the State have? I think you will agree that competence and responsibility should be regarded as essential qualities. Competence, of course, is because, figuratively speaking, it will depend on this person to make decisions, in particular those affecting the fate of Ukrainian citizens and, in general, to determine the prospects for the development of the whole State. Competence is judged by the experience of the candidate, how he uses this experience in his life. It is very important that the Prime Minister's decision not be taken as a result of the manipulation of his environment — consultants, advisers — that these decisions be made responsibly, including on the basis of his own experience and his own knowledge. What, then, does Timoshenko’s service list that we were assigned to study with you? The longest working period of five years is the work of an engineer at a factory in Dnepropetrovsk, an engineer at the organization of work and three years is a society with limited responsibility to the Cub, which has subsequently been transformed into a sadly known “Single Energy Systems”. What experience has the candidate gained during this time? It is not because the question and the answer to that question are understandable. Is that why its premiere in 2005 was accompanied by petrol, sugar, meat crises, during which prices were rising for all and all? Is that why she welcomed the reselling of the “Criminals”, which resulted in Ukraine finally losing this largest metalworking combination? And what is its loud resignation in 2005 after the scandalous allegations of the use of the office placed on it by the President? As far as responsibility is concerned, doubts are even more resilient here. The tendency to make loud statements, unwarranted promises and projects clearly goes beyond what is permissible. It is no wonder that as a result, we have all the crises that I have already mentioned, and unfortunately, people are experiencing real shocks and shocks. Not many in Ukraine today, especially those who have believed Timoshenko's promises to return two years of labour savings and cancel their recruitment to the army since 1 January, as they see today the likelihood that these promises are almost zero. Today, even questions raised by faction colleagues and the bloc have not been specifically answered as to how this will be implemented. This means that today the people who listen to these debates are once again alarmed because there is again no specific question on these very wicked, acute issues. We need to be responsible for our words and actions and to follow, not the political environment, but to follow the real demands of time and to think about Ukraine. The topic of political corruption, which Timoshenko voiced loudly earlier this year, received an unexpected continuation last week when, during the election of the Supreme Council President, Yulia Vladimirovna personally controlled the voting process by the people's deputies, members of the “orange coalition”. A question is asked, whether it is mistrust or lack of such confidence, or whether there is a lack of agreement between actions, how Timoshenko exerts pressure on the deputies or how he exercises that control, and why the MPs tolerate it. Could it not be called “political corruption within certain factions or blocs”? The Communist faction will not support this nomination for the Prime Minister's post because it is not certain that this person will ensure the delivery of gas at acceptable prices to Ukraine without a mediator, the mediator to whom the President's immediate environment is involved. Why do we doubt that this will be done, these promises will be fulfilled, and there will be no mediator? It is simply because the “Single Energy Systems” which it headed in its time performed a similar function. In addition, everyone remembers whose initiative destroyed long-term agreements with Russia on gas supplies to Ukraine at reasonable prices, and everyone remembers where gas prices, utilities and virtually everything began to rise. That is why the Communist faction will not support Timoshenko's appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine. Perhaps Julius Vladimirovna is motivated by good intentions, but this is not known enough. And, Arsenius Petrovich, thank you very much for giving us the opportunity to ask questions, but we understood nonsense, because even the questions asked by the faction colleagues did not receive the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u80	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to mention this. So we've given the candidate prime minister the opportunity to express his position. We've been working on questions of answers for 30 minutes. We discussed a candidate for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thus, all regulatory pre-vote pre-election rules have been made. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We have introduced the Supreme Council Decision No. 1005 on the appointment of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna as Prime Minister of Ukraine. It's on your hands. As Head of the Supreme Council, I would like to point out that there is no second point in the project that you currently have on your hands, namely: “at the moment of validity of the decision”. So I would like to formulate the text of the regulation. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna as Prime Minister of Ukraine. It's number one. “According to paragraph 12 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. First. Appoint Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrovna Prime Minister of Ukraine. The other one. The decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted.” It's going to be a legally correct norm-designing technique. In view of this, in accordance with article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 200 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am voting on the Supreme Council Order with the rights that I have just introduced concerning the appointment of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirovna as Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[Registration number 1005]] Voting takes place in open and roll-call mode. Please put the matter to the vote. Please vote. [[13:50:47]] For 225 I'm asking you to show me the factions. Dear National Deputies! You. Please. People's deputies have been denied, sorry they haven't been able to put up a card, half a minute. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking you to calm down. Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich! Turkinov Alexander Valentinovich, you've been asked to speak. I'm sorry. Calm down. There'll be no unregulatory action. I'm asking you to sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u81	Dear colleagues, we have Arseny Petrovich, Arseny Petrovich, I am addressing you. Unfortunately, we didn't have a credit card for Denkovic. And we ask in connection with the technical problem of putting the issue to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u82	Re-examination. I heard. Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich. Comrades, please calm down. Well, if they vote, they don't vote, they don't vote. Don't worry, sit down! Please, Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u83	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I would like everyone to calm down now, because, in fact, Alexander Alexander's card. The milkshake didn't work. In such cases, the vote shall be re-voted. I would ask you, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to put this question to a vote again because Alexander Alexander Omelchenko is willing to confirm that his card did not work for technical reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u84	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, please calm down! I'd like to point out that there's a position of the National MP that his card didn't work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u85	In view of this, I would like to put to the vote the question of returning to the vote for the Prime Minister's candidacy. Put a question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u86	Give me a card. [[13:53:34]] For 225 In view of the fact that the decision to vote on the Prime Minister has not been reconsidered and, in accordance with the Rules, we are obliged to take a 30-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-11-m0.u87	factions are at a meeting with the President of Ukraine. I just made a statement to Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich. It was now the turn of the faction of the Party of Regions, which, in fact, insisted and requested a meeting with the President of Ukraine. So the next order of the day is proposed. It is clear that it is not possible to open an evening meeting of the Supreme Council right now because I am not even going to ask questions about the registration of the national MPs right now. If I put it in, it's going to be the same thing that's just happened. So I wouldn't want us to inspire internal strife here and other stories for Ukrainian television channels on a show in the Supreme Council. What's more, this position, in fact, is now in agreement between the President and the leaders of the MP factions. This is the proposal: first, they will conclude the consultation; second, within the constitutional procedure, the President of Ukraine will decide to apply for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. As we held an appropriate vote, I put the question to the vote twice. As for my second vote, let's put it mildly, it's not that there's anxiety, it's just, you know, a terrible situation when the Supreme Council Head has a card pulled out of the car by the vote. Sorry, colleagues, it was a vote to return to the question. You know, I don't want to go back to that. By the rules, I'm still ready to argue with you. We'll study together. So once again, I note that political consultations are about to take place. In view of this, the next meeting of the Supreme Council will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
