ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, June 27th, another plenary session. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:05:01]] There are 266 national deputies registered, and there are no valid reasons for deputizing: Herasimov, Glaucus, Popescu, Šibko, Yankovsky. Ladies and gentlemen, today is June 27th, and this is the day when the final stage of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine began. Tomorrow's State Day is Constitution Day, and I warmly welcome all of you and our television viewers, all of Ukraine's citizens, radio listeners, all of Ukraine's citizens, and I want the Basic Law to be binding on all of Ukraine's citizens, starting with the President to any citizen. I wanted to welcome all of you again with this great holiday of democracy. Now a few general things to say about our meeting, because we hear in a lot of media, in political speeches that the Supreme Council is wrong, it can't work that way. I would like all of us to understand clearly the order provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. Any restrictions on the functions of those structures of state power that decide on the question of the rightfulness of Parliament, whether it is possible or impossible for it to work, all this activity is based on the principles provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. Therefore, by artificially blocking the work of the Constitutional Court and the Central Electoral Commission, and hoping that this would create legitimate conditions to claim that Parliament is wrong, are not accepted and cannot be accepted. On an unrighteous basis, we cannot make the right conclusions. That is why Parliament works and is justified until the Central Election Commission officially announces that it has no one to replace those deputies who cannot or do not want to work in Parliament, those who want to work and have the basis for the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. In accordance with the Rules, I am announcing a request by the National Deputy Vasil Hari to the President of Ukraine for information on the reasons for ignoring appeals by the Interim Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine in the issuance of acts by the President of Ukraine. Who's in charge of supporting this message instead, please vote. [[10:08:35]] For 240 Decision taken. I'm betting on voting the question of sending this question to the President. Please. [[10:08:56]] For 249 Decision taken. In accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction “Blood of Yulia Timoshenko” of 19 June seventh year, I will inform you of the election of the head of the faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” by Mikoko Ivanovich. [[Applause]] All accompanying documents on this subject are added. We have time, according to the Rules, to make statements, petitions, troubles, and so forth. I'm asking you to sign up for this. The factions first. Now from. In private, please. Please, Mankovsky. Stoyan of the Party of Regions, please. Then Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u2	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions, head of the Subcommittee on Social Standards of Life. The theme of my speech today is President Yushchenk's social demagogy and the practical actions of the Janukovich government. You'll recall, colleagues, that two weeks ago, from this rostrum, I announced a plan of action for the Secretary of the President of Ukraine to create the image of the national president, and this plan of action began to be implemented in practice. During that week, we heard a huge series of social initiatives by the President. It's not bad when the President of Ukraine really cares about the social protection of people. But what I'm saying is that not even an economist can calculate that in order to do the huge tasks that the President has planned, at least one and a half national budgets in Ukraine: to raise colossal pensions, to fully introduce a single wage network for budget workers, to raise payments several times at the birth of a child, a scholarship and much more. I'll give you just one example and one fact. It is suggested that we introduce, at the initiative of the President, one-off assistance for the birth of a child of 15,000 dollars. Let me remind you, now, at the suggestion of Maidan, it's eight and a half thousand. It's kind of a good initiative, but I'm calling it just one social initiative: you have to increase your budget expenditure by three billion 913 million dollars a year. But does this solve the problem of having a child? No one has ever analyzed the impact these payments had on the birth of children in 2005. I'm giving some examples that I took from the stand and from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In 2004, parents abandoned their children -- two thousand babies, in 2004, gave birth and left; in 2005, 2,971 children left; and in 2006, when that payment came, 6,600 left the children. Thus, it can be concluded that unwholesome families give birth to children in order to receive expenses from the State Budget or the Social Insurance Fund. And yet another fact, it's so dramatic. In 2005-2006, birth rates increased by eight percent. It's positive. But I would like to draw attention to my colleagues that, at the same time, the mortality of children under one year of age has increased by 30 percent. I mean, I emphasize again, they give birth, they leave, they drop them, they get money. So if we initiate this initiative, first of all, big expenses; secondly, I think they're going to be on the conveyor, really, giving birth to children. Of course, dear colleagues, each of us could name even more social parameters and say, “I call social settings, and you decide where to take the money.” It would be right for the head of State to name the sources of these colossal obligations. True, the President named one source that the government probably doesn't know about. So I want our government to listen to this source, the President said: “Money is rolling under our feet.” Under whose feet? This is the President's advice on social issues, and it gives me reason to say that this is total social demagogism. It's already a campaign for a loved one for 2009, and now it's a campaign for its political power. This is confirmed by President Yushchenko's failure to introduce a single bill to the Ukrainian Parliament this year. Moreover, all or virtually most social projects promised. Which is worth it when you and I voted here to raise savings payments, and the President vetoed it. Clearly, then, a number of questions arise. Why were such social guarantees not made in 2005, in the second half of 2000, in the first half of 2006, when the government of Timoshenko, Yehanurova, was in power, and the vice-premier of social and humanitarian issues was Viacheslav Kirilenko, who is now telling about how they have carried out their “10 steps towards people” across Ukraine? Not a single step has been taken, except for the $8.5,000 at the birth of the child, not from the state budget, but from the social insurance fund. And for the first time in 2005, children did not receive gifts and much else. I mean, at the same time, the government of Yanukovic did: I raised my pension three times, the minimum wage -- 81 percent of the living minimum, and in 2009 -- would be 100 percent. So the honourable colleagues can do all of this, and they can, in principle, do it on one condition, if the professional government of Yanukovich continues to work. But Parliament is interrupting this work. the next election, the job breaks up, and, I think, it's all this. I don't think Yushchenko's gonna make it. So in prison, I want to say what Victor Yushchenko wouldn't do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u3	Well, you can't do 30, you can't do 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u4	So what I want to say is that Victor Yushchenko wouldn't have done, but he's got such a rating that no Viagra will ever raise him again. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u5	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists, prepare for Simone. He's passing it on to the side. Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u6	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues! The third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ends with a high and disturbing note. The National Hymn of Ukraine, which will speak in this Hall today, will say that it has not yet died in Ukraine and its glory and will, but we, the National Deputies, must honestly tell the people that the puzzling coup d'état, which is being carried out by the Yushchenka anti-national call, which has buried democratic institutions of power, capable of devouring both our glory and our will, and our statehood. The next election of the Supreme Council, if they happen, will not solve any political problems, not to mention the mass of socio-economics that have matured and matured. The parliamentary elections are designed as a rescue for the President, who has too hasty to drop his pants, that is, the trust of the people, and to serve as the beginning of Yashchenka's second presidential campaign. This is also indicated by the completely empty, long-exploited, and by the way, intelligently embedded in the draft changes to the Constitution of the Initiative for the Cancellation of Deputy Impetition, which, by the way, does not touch on the inviolability of the main acting person, the President and the judges themselves, and the harsh social initiatives that are hopelessly lagging behind the government's already declared minimum wage, and are not giving rise to the socialization of the economy, which only opens the way to a substantial increase in people's income and well-being, and simply in accounting terms of increasing the figures that inflation will eat up. The greatest danger of the election is that, behind the President's round promises, the sweet promises made by the various Democrats in Ukraine, such as Timoshenko, Lucenkov, Kirilenkov, lies the plot of Yashchenka, oligarchs and the Tortured “Brother” against the people, against the European choice of Ukraine. In 16 years of independence, this is certainly not the first conspiracy, and it is accompanied by all the elections, but today especially vile, cynical, and armed, because of the pharisaicism that it hides. We should honestly tell people that, as before, the blocks of July Timoshenko and Our Ukraine were and remain projects of the oligarchic clans, and the non-criminal clans are known to be non-existent. They run the same business. This year another political project of oligarchs and brothers was born: Zhuaniya-Colomayski and the company. This is Lucenkova's "National Self-Defense", which is just a self-protection for oligarchs. At the expense of well - known billionaires, a political prostitute and a friend of the Ukrainian gays, Lucenko, unwittingly lies to the people about some of his levis. But find in the world, and more in Ukraine, an oligarch-billionaire who would confess or embody the left idea. The plot of Yushchenka, Lucenka, and the oligarchs is aimed at removing from the political arena the Socialist Party of Ukraine, without which European-type parliamentaryism can be successfully buried and the people predestined to slavery. The people are watching TV and radio, a maid press. The hit of today’s election season is the “Village News” that is fooling people, especially peasants, by publishing the true material about the troubles in the village, while also the fires of Judas Lucenka, the inborn Stack's bushman, the failure of Catherinechuk, calling these compromised characters new faces in politics. As they say, take and replace new faces, such as the political trifle of the Vinsky type, attached to them by the unscrupulous and unscrupulous Spuddarenko with the mania of his own greatness and heroism. Now, long before the election campaign, which, when it will, will begin in August, the Yushchenka-Timishenko-Baloga-Lucenka call will send its emissaries to all cities and villages. With the mission, it is reported that courtesans, timoshenkoks, luchenks, and the coalition are unconscionable, especially the socialists. In spite of the Law on Agitation Work with the President's blessing, local administrations are involved, and in three areas the heads of the district administrations are appointed chiefs of the headquarters of “Our Ukraine”. It's actually an administrative resource, political corruption, the beginning of counterfeiting. And where is the honesty and transparency that Yushchenko promised Europe. One word, people, watch out! Vitti, Yuli, Jury, who lied and abandoned you in Midan, want to poison you for the second time and for all eternity. Let us, then, keep Ukraine and ourselves to ourselves so that we do not give in to them, not to close the world to ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u7	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich! Simonenko, the Communist faction, prepare Lapina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! Recent developments in Ukraine, in my view, indicate that the people of Ukraine have suffered an irreparable loss. In April 2007, the Constitution of Ukraine came to an early end as a result of vile, criminal political actions. At a young age, the Basic Law was violated and the Basic Law could not be used as the law of life of 46 million States. What happened? The President has come to his senses and is already cynical in his pre-election role as the political force “Our Ukraine” declares, I have challenged Parliament. Who are you, that you unleashed the will of the people of Ukraine? Judging from yesterday's congress, the judges went to the ball because they understand perfectly that there is no order in the country today, there is no political system that allows justice to be done in the country, not the arbitrary one they are committing for huge bribes. And I was ashamed to hear some statements from the judges on television when we all know that we have no justice in the country, there is bribery and corruption. Those who have paid more in court the same rights today are the truth, bitter to our lives if we are to say that the people of Ukraine have lost the Constitution. The executive vertical has been destroyed, the heads of district and district administrations today continue to sabotage orange and do not allow all decisions taken by the Government to serve the people of Ukraine as a result of parliamentary decisions. There is only one spirit left of the Constitution, if there is no Constitution, and there is only one spirit, what does the President then guarantee? And if there is nothing to guarantee, then why the guarantor to the people of Ukraine. What do I think should be done today, and what should be done? Yes, indeed, there is a tremendous work to be done today to prepare a new constitution, because today we must take into account these bitter experiences, minutes and months that we have experienced today, when the President breaks down the Constitution, establishes a nationalistic dictatorship and is a real threat to the sovereignty of our country. Of course, the proposals that we Communists make have been translated into a specific text of the new Constitution. Today we will present the public, publish and tell journalists about the content of our Constitution. We propose the creation of a new text of the Constitution, based on the need to eliminate the institution of the Presidency, because the institution of the Presidency is not only an oligarchization of power, it is today the establishment of a nationalist dictatorship, it is a threat to the territorial divide, it is of course a division of the people. Once again, I would like to remind you that the distinguished voters, the current President, have decided that it is necessary to honor the centenary of Shuhevic, the one who was the Gauptman of Abver and the one who received two Iron Crosses from Hitler himself. Today, proposals are being prepared for the President by Ukrainian nationalists to make him a hero of Ukraine. Well, isn't that sacrilegious, when we were with you alone on 22 June, we once again touched our shrines on this tragic day when the Great Homeland War began, and the President is going to cross over the great feat of the people of Ukraine on 30 June. We are with you to witness that practically the heads of administration must be abolished, this institution. We also propose, in the new Constitution, that this institution be abolished and replaced by an execution. We propose in the Constitution to restore the right of our citizens to the protection of their rights and freedoms by the State. The present Constitution provides only a declaration of rights, and we propose to write down the rule: “The State guarantees employment, the State guarantees wages, the State guarantees medical care and services, education and all the rights and freedoms necessary for the lives of our citizens”. We propose, in the new Constitution, to protect the right of our mine owners and to protect collective property. We invite young people to provide additional credit, and the State must guarantee this. We propose in the new text of the Constitution that judges elect the people of Ukraine and thus put an end to arbitrary and vacchanal power in the judiciary, which I do not think has already violated the sovereignty of the State, because they consider themselves to be the perpetrators of the fates of the people of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to refer to you, distinguished colleagues: the time has come to “h”, the time to test our firmness and our principledness. And I'm sure if that happens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u9	Lapin, please. Lapin of the Volodymyr Yurievich Pehoti Regional Party gives the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u10	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. I went to the rostrum to welcome the second vocation MPs who had accepted the Constitution of Ukraine, deputies for subsequent vocations, who were working to improve the individual articles. All those in this room who were in the second vocation remember the passing of that night and the passing of the day of the adoption of this Constitution. Everyone remembers how different opinions and approaches were to the adoption of individual articles. But we found compromises and found solutions even from a hopeless position, and all of this led to the Constitution being adopted. Today, there is a different attitude towards the Constitution: the one who does not do it – the one who criticises it, the one who does not understand that it is not the respect for someone or an act, but the respect of the body today undermines the authority of our state — its own business. But we must say again today that today is the great celebration of the tenth anniversary. And so one day, I thought we'd have a little bit more ceremony and less criticism or less of what we do every day. I'm a member of the tenth anniversary celebration committee. By the way, I've been speaking and saying that the Supreme Council is poorly represented or underrepresented. You can't go around the body that created this constitution that worked on this constitution that adheres to this Constitution. I was told that all of this would be corrected. Today, I know that a special session is already scheduled and is taking place. As a member of the Committee, I don't have an invitation, and do any of you have an invitation to this solemn meeting of the Constitution? It seems to me that in itself we are demeaning the role of the whole holiday, we cannot treat it that way. Let's take an example from the European states, from the European Union, where we're trying to enter. Let us take an example from other nations and with respect to the Constitution, the law today should be spoken in full voice. Once again, I welcome all the parties to the adoption of the Constitution and the Second Covenant MPs and all the scientists who worked for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u11	Thank you, Vladimir Juliusovich. Falco has the word. Follow him, Mandus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, I would like to report on the situation that took place in the agro-industrial complex of the Mikolai district. After considering the situation in the agro-industrial complex in connection with drought, taking into account the recommendations made by the permanent commissions of the district council, the Mikolayivsk district council decided on the situation in the agro-industrial complex of the area in connection with drought. Address by the Mikolai District Council to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers. Text to send to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations to the Ukrainian People's Deputies from the Mikolai Region, the Ministry of Agriculture Policy of Ukraine, to the District Councils, asking the National Deputy of Ukraine, Falka Volodymira Ivanovic, to publish at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the text of the appeal of the Mikolai District Council. We MPs of the Mikolai District Council are concerned about the extraordinary situation in the agro-industrial complex of the area. On May 30, 2007, due to a prolonged absence of effective rainfall and a sharp rise in temperature in the second decade, May’s soil and air drought covered the entire area. Not in a viable state are nearly 500,000 acres [500,000 ha] of early crops, 208,000 hectares have already been written off, and the survey shows that the area of destruction of crops with each day is increasing, with the damage of farmers expected to be about 1 billion dollars. This will have a negative impact on the situation in the animal sector and affect the food supply of the area. At the same time, insurance for crops due to the impossibility of depreciating the cost of the insurance premiums actually paid due to the lack of funds, which, in accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet Decision of 21 February 2007, number 261 has been distributed proportionally among the districts. The area has a limit on these amounts of only 3.3 million dollars. Ladies and gentlemen, think about it. One billion dollars is damages and 3.3 million is only allocated. Alexander Alexanderovich, two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u13	Allow me to finish the application.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u14	In the light of the foregoing, we ask the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to identify the Mikolayev region as a disaster zone and an extraordinary situation in the agro-industrial complex of the area, to provide financial support to farmers on a non-refundable basis and maximum on a retroactive basis, to amend the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007. Let the debt be paid off to state-owned entities that have suffered as a result of force majeure on the basis of the findings of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Amendments to the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of 21 February 2007 No. 261 on the approval of the order and use in 2007 of the funds provided for in the State budget for the cost of premiums and premiums. Since February 21, 2007, the number 256 on the approval of the use order in 2007 of the funds provided for in the State budget for State support for production, production, plant production in the frequency of inclusion in the list of crops that are susceptible to cultivation, barley and corn on the basis of the unutilized ceiling allocated for the payment of subsidies for crops of winter crops. Renovate funding for an integrated land-melioration programme and improve the environmental condition of irrigation and drying sites for the period up to 2010. Increase the cost of payment and electricity to provide water to farmers for crops in the current year, according to applications for 7.3 million dollars. Together with the National Bank of Ukraine, meet with the heads of financial credit institutions to transfer the repayment deadlines to the 2008 crop without applying fines to farmers affected by the drought. Dear colleagues, I was on my way to these fields. It's terrible to see what cracks there are. Your hand's coming through. People, well, are literally afraid of the situation. I think this appeal will be an incentive for us to make decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u15	Thank you. Thank you, Vladimir Ivanovich. The thing is, this is about both the Hersonian and the Southern Zaporozhye area, not only. So the government will take appropriate measures. And all that depends on us in terms of budget correction will be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u16	Thank you, San Sanic. People in despair need to be supported right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u17	Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u18	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. For the second week, Ukrainian citizens have been happy with the so - called social ad by Viktor Yushchenka. The advertisements that Yushchenko launched across all channels clearly showed that freedom of speech had been trampled in Ukraine. President Yushchenko, contrary to the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution, has engaged in direct political advertising by a political power, the Party “Our Ukraine”, whose head is honorable. According to the law, social advertising cannot advertise the author of an advertisement. But the most shocking thing in Yushchenka’s advertising history is the severe pressure on the media and the direct involvement of the President’s Secretariat in television channels. Yushchenka’s advertisement, which is contrary to the law, is well - known by television lawyers, has been made available free of charge on television channels. This unprecedented fact deserves special attention from law - enforcement and supervisory authorities, and should soon be brought before the courts, which Yushchenko has not yet dismissed by his decrees. Obviously, the Committee on Freedom of Speech should respond immediately to this fact. I hope that journalists’ unions, as well as authoritative international journalistic organizations, will express their position. Freedom of speech and the independence of the media is the only undeniable, undeniable conquest of Maidan in 2004. And that's the only achievement that the man who made Midan the president of the state drowned. In May, the President’s Secretariat issued an instruction to the media, where journalists are directly identified, how and even in what ways Victor Yushchenk is allowed to be shown. This was followed logically by a direct administrative intervention in the media. Yushchenko believes that the intimidation of the media through its controlled power structures will allow the entire unattractive picture of the usurpation of power that the President's Secretariat is trying to capture through the technology of early elections. It is understandable why Yushchenko today opposes the Supreme Council's initiative to eliminate immunity from MPs, judges and the President of the State. Without immunity, Yashchenko will not be able to do the wrongs that he is now doing. Now it's clear to everyone that the desire for unlimited power and the desire to escape responsibility is the only purpose of a person who tries to call himself a Democrat stubbornly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u19	Thank you. Bogchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u20	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! This morning’s celebration will be celebrated by a million Ukrainians who have failed to see their country as a free, independent, sovereign state, making the day of the Constitution more glorious. Of course, it is not the pharisaism of those who falsely planted the throne on the Bank, who, by means of the word of fornication, attempt to create an image of a defender and even a guarantor of the Basic Law of the State, and in fact all their actions are literally bogged down by the Constitution. What is worthy of the President's sad decrees, which have defiantly violated the rights of all Ukrainian citizens by depriving the single legislative body of its legal decree, by committing a shameful act against all Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And the unprecedented, harsh pressure on the Constitutional Court, on its judges, which resulted in a massive break in constitutional implementation that would have led to all the surprised world, showed that Yushchenko, like the medieval vandal, is a disgraceful and primitive usurper of power. Yushchenko openly proved to everyone that his willful dream of abolishing polytreforms was a return to the authoritarian model of power in Ukraine, which in 2004 led people to the playgrounds. That is what we need today. We can confidently say today that the parliamentary coalition has become a reliable brake on Ukraine's leap into the shaking of power usurpation, disregard for laws and the Constitution of the State. We have prevented the use of telephone law in ancient times in order for loving friends, like locusts, to occupy the government’s steering tree, so that everyone who does not know, with the help of Philadelphia or Michigan, could claim the highest positions in the executive branch, since he speaks to the American accent. The Constitution is a law that has the highest legal power, a special legislative act in the state's legal system, it's a law of law. In English, the word “constitution” means arrangement, and from Latin I “confirm, establish”. It seems that the term “Constitution” has been translated into Latin only, so they believe that the Basic Law of the State can be both renegotiated and recasted and reconfirmed. That is why I would like to say: “Gentlemen, be dismayed, learn literacy, and do not make fun of the people.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, we have used the time spent on the performances. Obviously, no one doubts that the law - order issue in Ukraine is of the utmost concern. And this concern is caused by the fact that the violation of the rule of law, the deviation from the Constitution is carried out by those or those, first of all, the institution of power and personally the President of Ukraine, who is to be the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution. So the task is obviously for all the deputies, the political forces, for all the citizens, to force them to return to the constitutional field, to force them to respect the Basic Law. And if he has any legislative initiatives on the content of the Constitution, he knows how to resolve the matter in the legislative order provided for in the Basic Law. The draft amendments should be made to the Constitution if it deems them necessary and should be considered in accordance with the order provided for in chapter 13 of the Constitution. This is particularly true of the advertising content of the removal of parliamentary immunity. I want to draw the attention of everyone who listens to us, and the MPs well know that in the draft amendments to the Constitution registered, this procedure is perfectly clear: it is the practice of European countries when national MPs or MPs of those countries bear the same responsibility before the law as all citizens without exception. One clarification that is also applied in most countries of the world: If the issue of restrictions on the freedom of an MP or, for example, arrest is resolved there, then Parliament agrees. Anything else: whether his rude behavior, or his bullying, or the driving of a car in violation of the rules, or his other offenses, would provide him with the same responsibility as any citizen. I think that the adoption of such an amendment completely removes the problem itself, and there is no need to make any speculative statements or proclamations on it. By the way, on May 16th, when the Advisory Board met with more than 300 city heads, representatives of district and district councils, the draft amendments were proposed to them and did not raise any objections. So you don't have to break down in the open door, you just have to decide by the procedure that's provided for by the law itself, and you take that question out of the day, you don't take it out as some sort of political campaign figment. I think you understand that very well. Concerning Jaroslav Petrovich’s speech in violation of the Law on Advertising and Other Legislation regarding promotion of the position or image of a particular official. I don't think that critics can stand it, but the practice of the world can't lead to such an example, but, nevertheless, it's obvious that either from the Rules of Procedure or from the deputies or with a question or any other way to the President and to the media about the fact that, in the end, we have to respect the standards of our legislation fundamentally. You can't do that. Other issues raised here need no doubt attention, intervention, particularly in the case of drought in southern Ukraine, because our fellow MPs who were there, and Vladimir Romanovich Falco expressed here quite correctly the concern from the MPs of the Mikolai District Council. I spoke to the head of the district council about this, and she's really expressing a lot of concern about what needs to be done today. The authorities, the government, first of all, have taken steps to provide food for the population of these areas, on the other hand, on the basis of the harvest, and to ensure that the farms affected in this respect are supported by the State. The emphasis is on such a thing. Today, more than half or, well, so far, about half of the agricultural land is in the knowledge of small - commodity owners who have 2, 3, 4 hectares of land. Thus, according to the practice we had, the State’s assistance was usually applied to large producers. But all people are suffering. And imagine, a man who has 3 hectares of land, he can't contain any cattle, no chickens, nothing. It can't make ends meet, but it has suffered as well as the representatives of large-scale farms, so it is obvious that this situation and the adjustment in the state's order of assistance should apply to the needs of these people, who today, without any other work, can rely on other means of providing their lives in this case only to support the state. I would like to take this into account by preparing appropriate documents and by considering matters that concern, in particular, the budget changes in the part related to disaster management. In the second reading, we are invited to consider. Oh, I'm sorry, not the other one. A preliminary report from the Provisional Investigative Commission on determining the circumstances of the decision taken by the Council of Judges, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, on the appointment of judges for administrative posts and the dismissal of judges. This report was prepared by the head, more faithfully, the commission examined and prepared by the head of the Temporary Commission, Igor Teodorovich Zvaric. He has a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, let me first of all welcome you to the Day of Constitution on behalf of the members of the Provisional Investigation Commission and the Subcommittee on Constitutional Affairs, the Constitutionality of Legislative Acts and the Constitutional Judiciality of the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Welcome! Now for the previous report. The systematic analysis of the documents and materials listed in your previous report, and on the counter, we will constantly refer, suggests that the implementation of the new democratic standards of justice and their respective principles of justice as defined in the Constitution of Ukraine cannot be achieved without proper institutional transformations in the judicial system. An important step in reforming it in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine was to be the adoption of the comprehensive Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice on February 7, 2002, but this legal and regulatory act did not provide for the necessary quality changes in the judiciary and the judiciary. Desiring to preserve the legal framework in force at that time, this law has essentially merely renamed the individual chains of the judicial system and established control over it by the President of Ukraine, which has enabled him and his environment to directly or indirectly influence the judges and use these scales to harass outside the procedure for the fair trial of the beneficial results for them. Under this Act, the President of Ukraine was given such powers regarding the judicial branch of power that the Constitution of Ukraine does not provide. At the same time, as stated in the statement made by the Ukrainian Supreme Court Presidency and the Ukrainian Council of Judges on 21 May of this year, I quote: “In addition to the decision of the President of Ukraine concerning the organisation of the activities of the judiciary, there is a lack of due process of law.” In particular, these are Decrees of 11 September 2006 No. 747, 12 March 2007 No. 190 and 23 March 2007 under the heading 240, which, contrary to the provisions of part two of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the law of Ukraine on the judiciary, regulates the authorization of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts, the judges of Ukraine and other judicial authorities, and establishes procedures for the appointment of judges to administrative positions in the courts of general jurisdiction. It caused great concern and realization by the President of Ukraine of his own right alone, without the participation of the heads of the relevant courts and judicial authorities, to appoint the presiding officers of the courts. Moreover, contrary to the earlier March 23, 2007, Decree 240, the simplified procedure was followed by the appointment of not only the performing duties of the head of the courts but their intercessors. Under these circumstances, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, by its decision of 16 May 2007, recognized the position of section 5 of Ukraine's 20th Law on the Court, according to which the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, was appointed to office and was dismissed from office by the President of Ukraine in a manner that did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine, whether it was unconstitutional. At the same time, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled that this, declared unconstitutional, part 5 of the Ukrainian Act, article 20 of the Ukrainian Court of Justice Act, has ceased to be valid since the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of this decision, which is mandatory, I stress, pending enforcement in Ukraine, final and cannot be accused. However, in gross violation of this requirement, the President of Ukraine issued a series of decrees between 16 May and 1 June of this year concerning the appointment of judges to administrative positions in courts, which he had no right to do. There is also delay in reviewing the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 10 December 2003 No. 1425/2003, which approves the order of these matters, which does not correspond to the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16 May 2007, which recommends that the question of appointing a judge to serve as the head of the court, the deputy head of the court and his dismissal from that office be settled exclusively by the Supreme Council, without delay, and therefore in the legislative order. In submitting this position to a systematic analysis, the interim commission of inquiry shares the position expressed in the course of the debate and approval by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine as outlined in a separate opinion of the Constitutional Court of Brinksev, which is that, again, “the constitutional position of the part of the second article 130 acts as a judicial self-government, does not give rise to the view that the task of assigning judges to administrative powers can be attributed to the authority of the judiciary, because judicial self-government is precisely initiated as a kind of control mechanism, including the judicial administration, and it cannot in any way substitute for the implementation of administrative organizational functions, which are, in fact, the main of the respective heads of courts and their alternates.” [[This is about the Basic Law of Ukraine, according to which decision on the internal activities of judges]] It was I who quoted a separate opinion from the judge of the Constitutional Court. A duly substantiated statement, taking into account that, in accordance with article 92, paragraph 14, of the first article of the Constitution of Ukraine, the question of the judiciary, the judiciary and the administration is solely defined by laws. and the status of the judges, and the garden administration, which is mainly the exercise of administrative functions in the court as a legal person and is related only to these matters, gives some reason to believe that the establishment of a temporary order for the assignment of judges with these powers under urgent conditions is possible and a corresponding decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For these reasons, according to the members of the Provisional Inquiry Commission, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and clarified its previous ruling of 16 October 2001 on the appointment of judges, in paragraph 8 of which, with reference to paragraph 14 of the first part of article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine, it was argued that the appointment of the administrative post of judges with general jurisdiction and their deputies should be determined solely by law, recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its decision of 16 May of this year, that the appointment of a judge to the head of the court, the deputy head of the court and the dismissal of his office should be subject to the rule of law, that is not only by law, but perhaps by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the urgency of such a settlement. In doing so, as the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled of 9 July 1998 on the issue of the interpretation of the term “legislature” of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling, it is an important structural element of legislation relating to Parliament's implementation as the sole body of the legislative authority of the establishment and control function and determines their duty to carry out all the territory of Ukraine since it became effective. However, already the day after the decision of the Supreme Council of 30 May 2007 No. 1098-5 “On the provisional order for the appointment of judges to and discharge from administrative posts”, the Council of Judges of Ukraine adopted its decision of 31 May 2007 No. 50 concerning the appointment of judges to and discharge of administrative posts in the courts of general jurisdiction, which went beyond the powers conferred on it by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, which inevitably results from the analysis of the entire range of legal acts and other documents and materials on these issues. The decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the attempt to assign the Council of Judges of Ukraine authority over the appointment and dismissal of judges for administrative posts, approved by Supreme Council of Ukraine decision No. 1118-5 of 1 June 2007, in accordance with paragraph two of which the appointment of judges for administrative posts in and discharge from the courts of general jurisdiction is not valid, approved by the decision of the Council of Judges of Ukraine of 31 May 2007 No. 50, and all its decisions adopted in accordance with this order are not valid. However, the implementation of paragraph six of this Order by the Higher Council of Justice on the enforcement of paragraph three of the Constitutional Court's decisions of 16 May 2007 No. 1-PP and the decision of the Supreme Council of 30 May 2007 No. 1098 of the provisional order, on the date of adoption of this decision, was suspended by the Pecher District Court of Justice of Volkova, who is the deputy head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine. In doing so, it should be noted that the improper appointment of judges to administrative positions by the Council of Judges of Ukraine, such as its decisions of June 1, this year, which refers to a hundred persons, takes place at their sitting. According to information from the same deputy head of the Council of Judges of Ukraine Volkova regarding the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to positions of heads and deputy heads in the general courts, the instigators of developments can no longer be secreted for anyone. So I see that I'm finishing up the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u23	No, you can ask for 40 minutes who has not denied you, there is a Rules, and the Rules set the time, so please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u24	I'm asking for options to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u25	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u26	In this connection, the interim commission of inquiry examined case number 06-1\31 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s rulings on the election of judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and Boyk. Texts of decrees, motions, stated to the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Fund No. P1, description No. 22 on 17 sheets began on 12 August and ended on 26 October 2002. As a result of a study of the documents available in it concerning the election of the Supreme Court of Ukraine judge on the spotless basis of Onopenk, which was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy on 16 October 2002 and on the basis of which the Supreme Council of Ukraine had adopted the relevant decision on 17 October. The materials of this case do not include the filing of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s application of the Onopenk to a judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine on an uninterrupted basis in accordance with article 61, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Judicial Act. There is a letter in the case number 4398 signed by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which has not passed appropriate registration procedures in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which states: “The Supreme Court of Ukraine represents Onopena for the election of a judge to the Supreme Court of Ukraine on an untimely basis does not meet the requirement of this law.” The text of this letter is also referred to as an appendix to it: draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling, manual on work in the past, statement, characterization, conclusions of the Supreme Qualification Commission of Judges of Ukraine, declaration on incomes in the last year in materials of a case that is not available. Third. With regard to the stated conclusion of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine, it is not properly certified, it does not contain the signatures of the members of that commission, which raises doubts as to whether the matter has been considered at all. According to the law, article 61, paragraph 1, all judges are elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of recommendations, not the conclusion of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, all of which are no longer subject of a professional committee. a profile committee subject, not a temporary commission of inquiry. At the same time, we cannot fail to point out that, according to article 91, paragraph 4, of the Ukrainian Law on the Courtship of Ukraine, persons whose judges have been dismissed for more than five years also have a qualified examination. And from the release of Onopenek from office of Judge of the Supreme Court of Justice, 1991-2002, it took almost 11 years to analyzed events. But if this is precisely the conclusion, although it does not specifically refer to a qualified examination itself, it should also be properly prepared. According to the text of the Legal Policy Committee's appeal to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 16, 2002, issue 06-1/4-1-11, signed by the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Rights of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy considered, at its meeting on October 16, 2002, not the filing of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, but the other. The law of the subject, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, which also lacked and could not serve as a basis for the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as judge of the Supreme Court of Onopenek. Then, and the very recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on legal policy issues of October 16, 2002 could not be the legal basis for the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on October 17, 2002. And the last. There can be no reference to work in the past in the case, not even a document, because it is not properly drafted, not certified, there is no record of the person who composed it, all the information about the past of which, on a single sheet, is only a statement of the fact that, according to the text of this paper: “Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vasilovic, Ukrainian National Deputy, a multi-manage national constituency, election bloc of political parties and so on, has been serving as Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy since June 2002. ” It also states that he is a member of the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, but there is no information on the withdrawal of her candidate as judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine in the materials of the case. However, according to article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, in accordance with article 127 of the Constitution, a judge may not belong to a political party, to a trade union, to participate in any political activity, to have a representative mandate, to embrace any other paid office, to do any other paid job other than scientific, teaching and creative work. In generalizing all of this information, where it is also about the history of Mr. Onopenek's claim that he was denied the status of the judge, the interim commission of inquiry considers that when considering the question of the election of Onopenek to the judge of the Supreme Court in a timely and appropriate manner, the Committee on Legal Policy and the Supreme Council of Ukraine had used materials which, by their content and form, did not correspond to the current legislation that questioned the legality and validity of the decisions they had taken. At the same time, we are not asking radically about the repeal of the relevant Supreme Council decree, but we believe that no less important are the marked breaches of the judge's oath. In this regard, respectable Adam Ivanovich proposes paragraph 4 of the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to present in detail the material provided to you. One last thing. As far as the subject of the interim commission of inquiry is concerned, I would like to draw attention to it, but directly to the well-known Committee of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy, addressed by the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Ivanenko Volodymir Ivanovich, if you please, for no more than two minutes, I will simply quote: “On 10 May 2007, the President of Ukraine issued Order No. 390/2007 on the release of Ywaschenk from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.” Next, Decree No. 390. “ By decree, I was relieved of my position in connection with the breach of an oath. In view of the legality and irrefutableness of this act of the President of Ukraine on my dismissal, I have appealed to the Dniprovsky District Court for an administrative order repealing Decree No. 390 and a renewal of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.’ On June 14, 2007, the President of Ukraine issued Decree No. 527 repealing its Order No.390 on the release of Yvashchenk from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On the same day, however, I issued a second decree of number 529 concerning my dismissal in connection with my resignation. Since, at the time of the issuance of Decree No. 527, I was challenged in the court by the legality and validity of Decree No. 390 and took into account that my constitutional right to a decision of an impartial court as a result of an accusation before a court of the Presidential Order of Ukraine, I asked the court, despite the annulment of this decree by the President of Ukraine, to rule on the substance of the dispute and to defend the violation of the law by making a decision to re-establish the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in accordance with article 55 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In addition, in order to amend and supplement the suit, he requested that he take a decision on the illegality and unwarrantedness of Decree No. 529 regarding my dismissal in connection with the filing of a resignation claim. This is evidenced by the initiative of the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine on June 12, this year, I was invited to the secretariat of the President of Ukraine. During the interview with Ivy, I was informed that the President of Ukraine intended to revoke his decree of May 10, No. 390, on my dismissal from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. For this purpose, I was invited to address the head of state with appropriate concern, since I was thus reinstated in a position from which I was illegally dismissed, and I agreed on the proposal that the implementation of which bore witness, among other things, and the restoration of not only legality, but also justice in relation to me. To write to the Head of State about my renewal as Judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, I was invited to meet with Vice-President Kukshin. On the same day, when I met the last one, I wrote my own note to the President of Ukraine about the repeal of decree No. 390 of May 10, 2007. Kukshin then invited me to write another application under the name of the President of Ukraine for resignation from the post of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. On my question about the reason for the declaration of discharge after my reinstatement as a judge, he explained that this requirement of the Head of the Secretariat of President Baloga, given that the presence of such a declaration should be a guarantee of my position as a judge of the Constitutional Court for further “constructive” cooperation with the staff of the Secretariat in the specific cases that are in the conduct of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, otherwise, I will be dismissed according to the application. Taking into account the report by Plushta and Kukshina, that the satisfaction of my claim that I would be reinstated by the President of Ukraine as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine could only be made on the same day of the application for discharge, a statement by the head of state regarding my own state of health was also made. Taking into account that I was in the hospital and in my health, the issue of establishing a disability group was resolved, I wrote an application for the possibility of my being released in a state of health. In doing so, I did not have a date on my application, since I was of the opinion that, under article 23 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the decree should be preceded by the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine regarding my resignation. However, I did not apply to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for resignation because the issue of recognition of my disability and the appropriate conclusion on disability is at a decision-making stage in the medical facility until now, as I informed the deputy head of the Secretariat of Kukshin. I'm done. Under these circumstances, Decree No. 529 on my resignation does not meet the requirements of article 23 of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, and the reason for its issuance is that my decision is to state as a result of the unlawful use of the authority vested in the above-mentioned officials of the Ukrainian Secretaryate in order to motivate me, as a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to act solely in support of the position of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, this claim cannot have legal consequences. In this connection, Adam Ivanovich proposes to complete the draft decree with a new paragraph asking the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to examine these facts in accordance with article 24 of the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, I believe that such a correct request will not be taken as pressure or prejudiced decision. Is it necessary to read the draft decree again, taking into account the additions made?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u27	No, not yet. You've already used two deadlines. Will there be questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u28	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u29	No questions? Yes, if there are no questions, then please emphasize again, then read out those changes, just the changes you propose to make to the ruling given to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u30	Got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u31	The fourth and fifth articles, the fourth, the fourth, and the new fifth articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u32	So, paragraph four of the ruling, where the beginning of it: “The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice” proposes to set up a colon and to make the following text: “In accordance with part three of article 21 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, explain the application of the provisions of the Ukrainian legislation on the appointment of judges to administrative positions in the courts of general jurisdiction and the dismissal of judges.” So what was the point becomes the first paragraph. And second paragraph: “In the light of the materials of the Interim Investigative Commission, ask the High Council of Justice for a violation of the oath of the judge of the Supreme Court of Ukraine by Onopenek Vasil Vasil Vasilovich.” And paragraph five, which is proposed: “Ask the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to investigate in accordance with article twenty-fourth of the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act to comply with the current legislation of Ukraine by officials involved in the preparation of the Ukrainian Presidential decrees concerning the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Ivaszczenka Volodymir Ivanovich.” These are the changes that are being proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u33	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, we have heard the report of the Interim Investigation Commission. It has to be said that despite the relatively short period of time that we gave to the commission, as the report of the commission’s chairman shows, it practically carried out our commission, worked quite effectively and scurvyly. Regrettably, it has to be noted that those who have to defend the law, those who have to stand guard of the law and act only within the limits of the law, are self - assuming those rights that are not granted by law. And these people, I'm sorry, I'm no different than the show around the problem of assigning judges to the judiciary, the right to be appointed to administrative positions is not provided for by law, and the court itself cannot establish the law accordingly. And while they criticize these and all, to some extent just criticism we give in, including the Supreme Council, but perhaps criticizing someone, we need to do our own thing to make it legal. On the left hand side, they give out characteristics that all violate the law, including the convening of an assembly of judges at which they make illegal decisions. This is probably the last drop put by the judicial system in its existence in today’s situation. For it is no longer a matter of doubt that the state can look at this and regret that we have not had enough time or desire for some to finally adopt those amendments to the Law on the Court of Justice, or rather the new Law on the Court of Justice, which was the author of the initiative by the President of the State. We accepted it on the first reading, we should accept it on the second reading, and I don't think there will be any problems like this with the judicial system. I would then like to refer to your consideration of the adoption, as a whole, of the draft decision number 3726 on the preliminary report of the Interim Investigations Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the situation of the adoption by the Council of Judges of Ukraine of the decision on the appointment of judges for administrative posts and the dismissal of those posts, taking into account the proposals made by the head of the Interim Investigation Commission on the addition of 4 points, on a new 5 item, and accordingly on the renumbering, on the subsequent renumbering of items. Please vote. [[11:15:45.]] For 253 It's been decided. Let's move on, dear fellows, to the section “Long Reading. ” A draft Law on International Technical Assistance is under consideration. [[Registration number 2040]] Reported the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Alexy Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u34	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your attention is given to the second reading of the draft Law on International Technical Assistance. The project proposes to regulate the engagement and use of the international technical assistance that Ukraine receives, as well as the provision of international technical assistance to Ukraine. The projects of the International Technical Assistance Programme, which Ukraine receives, are expected to be subject to mandatory government registration by an authorized authority in an order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The national registration of such projects itself is the basis for the accreditation of the contractors, as well as confirmation of the availability of appropriate benefits, privileges and immunities provided for in Ukraine's legislation and international agreements. After first reading, the committee received comments and suggestions from a number of national deputies included in the table. This table is given to the people's deputies, and you have it. Regrettably, representatives of the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance were not present on the committee’s second reading. And this morning some editorial comments were made by the Ministry of Finance. These editorial remarks are already in agreement with the Ministry of Economics, they agree with the State Customs. So I would like to take into account, right now, the four editorial remarks proposed by the Ministry of Finance. In an appropriate bed there is the Deputy Finance Minister, Jefimenko Tetjan Ivanovna. If you ask her questions, you will be able to hear them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u35	Alexy Vitaliovich, let's do this differently. Dear colleagues, which one of you has noted the amendments that have been taken into account, or whose amendment has not been taken into account, and you insist? You don't? None. Then, please, what is proposed to be clarified. Please, Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u36	The Ministry of Finance is offering 41 points, this is page six, 41. In fact, it is proposed that the first reading should be edited as follows: “The international technical assistance received by Ukraine in accordance with Ukraine’s legislation and international treaties, which are not subject to taxation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” This is the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, it is clear that the first paragraph of article 7 is proposed in the first reading edition. I'm putting this motion to a vote. Please vote, vote. [[11:19:13]] For 233 Offer supported. Please, what's next?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u38	Next. The same page is 43. It is suggested that it simply be removed where goods designed to ensure the implementation of the project are moved during the implementation, i.e. simply exclude.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u39	I propose to delete the second paragraph in article 7, which is the 43rd amendment. Please vote, vote. [[11:19:52]] For 235 Copy that. Next offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u40	This is the same page, 45 points. The following is proposed: “After the completion of the project of the International Technical Assistance Programme, the management of goods moving across the customs border of Ukraine and intended to ensure the implementation of the project of the International Technical Assistance Programme may be carried out in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine.” It's shorter, but it covers all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u41	In such an editorial, I would like to vote on this fourth paragraph of article 7. Please vote, vote. [[11:20:38]] For 247 Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u42	Page seven, paragraph 46, where number five. This is proposed by the editor: “The personal property of foreign contractors is imported into Ukraine for use by such persons or their families for the period of implementation of the project of the international technical assistance programme in accordance with the current legislation of Ukraine”. And there the next sixth paragraph is proposed to be shortened to read: “The imported goods are shipped as international technical assistance, subject to customs clearance according to applicable legislation. “ I don’t know So this cancels out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u43	Yes, of course. In this context, please vote on the sixth paragraph. [[11:21:36]] For 239. Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u44	Yeah, that's it. The Ministry of Finance's amendments are over.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u45	So we took all the amendments into account, and we voted them out. I'm voting on adoption as a whole as an International Technical Assistance Act. [[Registration number 2040]] Please vote. [[11:22:07]] For 249 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House is under consideration, registration number 2855. [[second reading]] Reports Savocin Hennaday Anatoliyovich, member of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u46	National Deputy of Ukraine, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Savosin Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing at its meeting on 16 May 2007 considered a bill prepared for second reading. During the preparation for second reading, 21 proposals were made by Ukrainian national deputies, 12 of whom were rejected, and nine were counted in whole or in part. Proposals are supported to specify that property rights in a multi-room building can be both on the premises and on the non-residential premises, and their owners and co-owners should also be members of the OSBB and participate in the management of the house. The committee also supported proposals to clarify the procedure for convening the meetings, selecting the chairman, and establishing the results of the vote. The principle is also that if the decision is not taken, the owner of the house will temporarily appoint the manager within a month. Lukianczuk, a national deputy, supported by the technical possibility of carrying out household household bills for water -, heat, gas0, electricity, hot water supply and other services, consumers sign direct contracts and list the costs directly for enterprises and organizations that provide these services. So the law establishes a direct consumer-supplier relationship without intermediaries. As far as unsupported offers are concerned. Amendment No. 1 of Lukyanczuk is rejected because the definition of the terms “communal services” is given by the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. Amendment 13 of the Route for the deletion of new article 6/ was rejected, as the government proposal was rejected if, within 3 months of the introduction of a residential building, the congregations did not call or take place, or there was no decision to create a merger, the obligation to make the necessary arrangements for the registration of documents certifying the creation of a merger is based on the owner of the building, the contracting authority is one of the key elements in the bill and introduces the mandatory creation of the OSB in new buildings in any case. Amendment No. 17 of Lukyanczuk has been rejected, since the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act defines the list of providers of these services. Please support the committee's decision and accept the bill as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u47	Yes, thank you, Gennady Anatolyovich. Dear colleagues, I address those whose corrections have been rejected. Don't you insist on voting? Although most of the adjustments are rejected by those who no longer want to work. You don't? Now, if you have a objection to the amendments taken into consideration, you have the opportunity to make a statement. You don't? Then I put to the vote the proposal of a profile committee: adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Unification of Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House. Registration number 2855. Please vote. [[11:26:26]] For 243 The law is passed. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act is under consideration, registration number 2557. Reports Savocin Hennaday Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u48	Honourable National Deputies, proposed to you by the government bill amending the Ukrainian Housing Fund Social Assignment Act, were adopted on the basis of April 10th this year. The committee at its meeting on 16 June supported my proposal to delete the rule that a homeless citizen could be evicted from a social protection facility by a decision of the institution's administration to take into account the observation of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. There were no other comments and suggestions during the preparation of the project for consideration in the second reading. I would like to draw your attention to the observations of the Chief Legal Authority, which are quite substantial. Paragraph 3 of chapter 3 of the bill stipulates that for social housing, a homeless citizen applies to a local self - government body that has registered his predominant place of residence. According to the Authority, this rule is contrary to current legislation, since in accordance with article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on the Freedom of Movement and the Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine, the registration of a person's place of residence and residence is carried out by the relevant body of the specially authorized central authority of the executive authority on the issue of registration in the autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, cities, areas, areas in cities and cities, as well as in the city of Kiev and Sevastopol. At present, such bodies are a department composed of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and appropriate administrations, civil affairs, immigration, and local registration. The registration of the predominant location of the last residence is not a function of local self - government. In accordance with articles 7 and 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Homeless Citizens and Homeless Children, Homeless Citizens and Their Predominant Persons, appropriate specialized institutions established by local authorities and local executive authorities are being implemented. And the registration of the vast number of homeless citizens is made at the legal address of a specialized institution that accounts for homeless citizens or other institutions for this category of persons. That is, the special registration authorities of natural persons should register a homeless citizen, according to their vast location on the basis of a certificate of the established model issued by a specialized institution. In view of the proposed committee’s proposal to adopt a bill as a whole, in line with the following amendment, article 14, paragraph 1, reads: “A homeless citizen registered by the relevant authority of a specially authorized central authority for registration in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, cities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u49	Yes, wait, please. You're the one who's talking to me, don't you see what you're doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u50	Yes, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u51	“A dismal citizen registered by the relevant authority of a special central authority for registration in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, areas, cities, regions, cities, cities and cities, as well as in the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, calls on the local self-government body to obtain social housing.” In article 15, paragraph 4, the words “that registered her last place of residence” are deleted. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u52	Yes, dear fellows, there was an amendment to Savoxin, it's counted. I am voting on the proposal for adoption in the second reading and in general as a law taking into account the observations of the legal administration, which were issued by the rapporteur, of the law amending the Law on Housing and Social Assignment, registration number 2557. I would like to stress once again, taking into account the amendments that have been made by the legal authorities and that have been made by the reporter. Please vote. [[11:31:36]] For 256 The law is passed. The draft Law on the National Action Plan for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child is under consideration until 2016. [[second reading]] Reported the secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich, registration number of the 2570 bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u53	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets! On February 8, 2007, a draft law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child was adopted on the basis of first reading. The bill proposes to approve the state-wide programme of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child in order to ensure the optimum functioning of the entire legal and social protection system of the growing generation in Ukraine. In the drafting of the bill, several round tables were held with the participation of representatives of the Committees of the Supreme Council, public organisations, ministries and departments, which have some bearing on the problems regulated by the draft law. A working group was set up to prepare a draft for second reading. The bill had 157 proposals, of which only 19 were not included. All the rejected proposals are accepted at the meeting of the working group and at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Therefore, the Committee considers it appropriate to invite the Supreme Council to adopt a bill as a whole, considering that the vast majority of amendments, as I said before, have been taken into account. And those who are unaccounted for are agreed upon, taking them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u54	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of the authors of the amendments has a note? The crane was coming up, I can't see it. Where's crane?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u55	All proposals of the crane are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u56	Is it? Please, it's a crane microphone. Oh, no? Yes. Please, it's a crane microphone. Call me the number of your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support Bill 2570 as a whole. Please support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u58	I see. No further comments from the authors. Not until the amendments are taken into account. Then I am voting on adoption as a whole as a law on the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child until 2016. Registration number of bill 2570. Please vote. [[11:34:52]] For 257 Although it may have been logical for us to accept the work of our palace until 2011. Well, nothing, we'll work on the next call. Let us go to the chapter “To review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Land Cadastre Act is being considered, registration number 0947, with proposals by the President of Ukraine on April 13. He was supposed to represent the President. I don't see him. Bevenko, head of the committee. Subcommittee. You don't? Jaduzka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u59	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! On March 20th of this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted in a second reading and, as a whole, as a law, a bill on the State Land cadastre, registration number 0948, which on April 13th was rejected by the President of Ukraine on the grounds that it cannot be signed, based on the fact that its concept does not suit the interests of the State and the citizen, contains constructive flaws that do not guarantee the establishment of an independent land-cadastral registration system, which the committee cannot agree with. The law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is based on the principle of maintaining the State’s land cadastre solely by the central authority of the executive body on land issues by the State and its local authorities. Authorized authorities of local self - government are limited to keeping books, registers of registrations of State acts and land leases, as well as a new cadastre plan that conforms to constitutional standards. Because according to articles 13, 142 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the earth is an object of property rights of the Ukrainian people and a material and financial basis for local self - rule. At the same time, the Committee considers that the comments made in the President's proposals on the order and reasons for the disclosure of the State Land Inventory on the personal data of the person, namely its property status, which are of a confidential nature, merit attention. In addition, according to the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is also appropriate to change the title of articles 30, 31, 32 of the law and bring them into line with the content of these articles. Taking into account the above, as well as the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, and pursuant to article 130 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Act on Registration No. 0948 of Ukraine to be submitted to the Main Committee, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues! So the situation was understood, the president's proposal to reject the bill, the committee's proposal to rework it. In this order, I shall put to the vote in accordance with the Rules. The President's proposal to reject the Law No 0948 on State Land cadastre is put to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:38:46]] For-15. It's not coming through. I would like to vote on the proposal of a profile committee to forward Bill 0948 on the State Land Cadastre with proposals by the President of Ukraine for the work of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. Please vote. [[11:39:21]] For 254. Decision taken. The bill is intended for further elaboration of the committee in accordance with 130 articles of the Rules. The appointment of individual country heads is under consideration. Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Victor Mikolayovich Tikhov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! During the time that followed the elections to the local self - government bodies held on March 26, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine had already approved 145 decisions on the appointment of out - of - turn elections. Such elections were scheduled for 121 villages, 14 villages, and 10 cities. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was once again addressed by 8 rural and one village council with the request of the appointment of out of turn for rural and rural head elections, namely: Kharkiv region, the Pervomaj region, the Ephraimian village head, the Maryan village head, the katerinian village head, the army village head, the Vladimirian village head, the Koshmanian village head, the pyrathian village head, the Swerdlovian village head, the Irish village head. After considering all these references, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our committee, as evidenced by the documents sent to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, was moved by the appropriate councils in connection with the suspension of the powers of the country and village heads. Therefore, the authority of the Sverdlovian Rural Head has been suspended in connection with his death in time, and the authority of the Koshmanian Rural Head has been suspended on time by decision of the local referendum. The authorization of the other six rural and rural heads has been suspended in connection with their personal application to the appropriate council for their headship. The Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in connection with local authorities and local authorities, believes that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the election of these rural and rural heads be ordered on an orderly basis. In line with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine, “The election of local councils and village, village, city heads, the successive elections of rural and village heads are appointed by the Supreme Council for Sunday, no later than 70 days before the election day. In connection with this, nine draft decrees have been submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order to appoint all rural and rural heads on Sunday, September 9, 2007, and please support these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u62	Yes, will there be questions? None. Then we'll vote. It is the Supreme Council’s decree on the appointment of successive elections for the Efremian village head, the Pervomai district, Kharkushkin, registration number 3711. Please vote. [[11:43:00]] For 248 It's an order. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Maryan village head, Bill 3711-1. [[Shiriyai district of Odessa]] All the elections are on September 9th, I emphasize. Please vote. This is the Shiriyai district of Odessa. [[11:43:27]] For 255 Copy that. Orders for the selection of the Catherinian village head, Constantine’s district of the Donetsk region. 3711-2 number of the bill. Please vote. [[11:43:53]] For the 250. Copy that. Order for the election of the army head of the Krasnoprekop region, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. 3711-3 bill, number. Please vote. [[11:44:18]] For 246 Copy that. Order No. 3714-4 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Vladimirian village head, Priazov district of Zaporozhye. Please vote. [[11:44:44]] For 253 Decision taken. Here we go to the draft Ordinance on the bordering of the city of Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district, registration number 3664. A member of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs, respected TV setters, radio listeners! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, in connection with the appeal of the U.S. City Council, resubmits a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to establish the boundaries of the city of Uzin Biloczerkow district, Kyiv region. The city of Uzin is one of the most important economic centers of the Bilocerk district, with some 18,000 inhabitants. There are a number of agricultural and agricultural enterprises that have created favourable conditions for the development of the civil aviation sector. The borders of Uzin were not approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to the city’s accounts, there are 1,281.1 hectares. The Uzin border project was developed by the State Enterprise Kyiv Research and Project Institute of the Land Authority, the State Committee on Land Resources on the basis of the city's overall development plan. According to the city’s design documentation, it is possible to include land in the loyalty of the Uzin City Council, taking into account the prospects for comprehensive urban development. So after the project changes, the total area of the city will be 8,000 acres. It should be pointed out that the issue of establishing and changing the boundaries of cities and districts does not refer in any way to property issues. These cases deal with the jurisdiction of the territories, and the owners of the land remain the same. The land in these areas is owned by the state, by the territorial community, or municipal property, and by the private property of the owners of the farm’s land rations. Without the consent of these owners, or their organs, the land cannot be changed by the owner and cannot be rented to other owners. Moreover, the question of the possibility of replacing the owner or the possibility of reclassifying the land has been regulated by changes to the relevant law. Moreover, before the adoption of the 2001 Earth Code, the area of 8,000 acres [8,000 ha] was within the jurisdiction of the Uzin City Council and was not part of any rural council. This was the territory of the Uzin territorial community. That is why no village council is listed in the text of the draft decree, and no hectare from the land of rural councils is included in the city of Uzin, but only the territory of Uzin is approved within the territory of the land known as the Uzin City Council. With all the neighboring rural councils, the adjacent boundaries were agreed upon and there was no objection. The question of establishing the boundaries of the city of Uzin Bilocerkow district is in line with legislation, discussed and approved by the Regional Regional Council of Kyiv. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations believes that the proposed project meets the requirements of land legislation and is consistent with land legislation. On the basis of this, the High Council Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, having studied all the arguments directly with the local deputies and with the head of the city of the region, will re-examine the Supreme Council's deputies to support the draft Decision on the approval of the Uzin border, to adopt, as such, a draft decision adopted jointly by the relevant committees. Deputies! On behalf of the committee, I also address you again on behalf of the residents of Uzin. Dear National Deputies! We ask for support for the desire of residents to regulate, to legitimize the development of local self-government in the area of the Uzin City Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u64	Thank you, Yuri Svoslavovich. True, you live, not in Uzin, but in the Rivensk region. On behalf of the people. Are there any questions? Yes, please have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, literally a few words on this issue. You and I have discussed this in our second session, if I'm not mistaken, a small number of votes have only supported this proposal. And the profile committee, and I've studied the subject further, too. I had a meeting here with the city manager. Then on Monday, on Monday, I visited Uzin myself, and I met about 300 people in the city, and I asked to meet the people who own agricultural land. Because first of all, I wondered if they would prefer to have their lands territorially incorporated into the city of Uzina. We had a rather meaningful meeting. I gave each of these pie owners an opportunity to speak, and around the city today, it's working or in the city itself, let's say, there are three agricultural enterprises and no votes, and then there's this motion for a vote that wasn't against establishing the boundaries of Uzin within just as the district council is proposing, and the Bilocerk district council, and the city council of Uzin. The truth is I'm in this conversation and I'd like to ask the representatives of the agrarian committee right now to write another paragraph in this regulation about this content. “That the change in the status of agricultural land is included in the Uzina border in the subsequent implementation of the Supreme Council’s decision.” That is to say, we will now establish the boundaries of the city of Uzina, and then by the decision of the village council of the land of the agricultural assignment, the city council will place it under construction, under construction, and under whatever circumstances you wish. So in order to protect ourselves and to secure the guarantees of people who own pies that the change of appointment, the status of appointment of these lands of agricultural destination will only be effected in accordance with the Land Code by the decision of the Supreme Council. So, if you don't have, your honorary colleagues, I'm putting to the vote Order 3664 establishing the boundaries of the city of Uzin of the Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district, complementing exactly the point I proposed, the third. Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:53:44]] For 259. Thank you. It's been decided. Legally, we're working with the Legal Authority on the proposal that I made on the basis of talking to the residents of Uzin, which I told you about. A draft Decision on the 2007 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Award for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government is under consideration. [[Registration number 3662]] Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Filindash Evgen Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u67	Thank you. Honorary colleagues, four years of decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have initiated the annual commemoration of our young citizens and civil youth organizations, which contribute significantly to the development of parliamentaryism and local self-government. This award has already been awarded twice by the Supreme Council. Last year, for some reason, the Supreme Council did not award a prize to anyone, even though the committee made appropriate proposals. The total is awarded up to ten bonuses. This year, the Parliamentary Committee received six submissions on candidates for the award this year. In accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council Decision on the award of this award, our committee is mandated to consider the submission of district councils and the All-U.S. Youth Public Organisations and to make appropriate proposals for consideration by the Supreme Council. We have done so and the corresponding draft of the decree has been brought to your attention. The specific names and names of the organizations are given in the draft decision you have. At the same time, I should point out that during the examination of the motions, members of the committee first considered the winnings of the candidates for the award. I would like to point out that all documents sent meet the requirements of the award. The originals are on the committee, and they can be made available to every national MP. The committee proposes to take a decision in general, and young people presented for the prize, according to committee members, deserve it. The necessary financial expenses are foreseen in the funds of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u68	Thank you. Are there any questions? I've got it. Eugene Vasilovich, I don't mind, but maybe two members of the Plains, if there's only six prizes here, it's probably too much. [[One, two, three, four, five]] I don't know what the committee was headed for, but let's face it, for six prizes, two prizes goes to just one Plainland area, it's probably going to be a little unfair in terms of other areas. So I suggest, let's take it as a basis, this draft decision, let's ask the committee, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u69	Adam Ivanovich, if you please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u70	Please, Eugene Vasilovich, maybe we can fix it on the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u71	The point is that the criteria for the committee's consideration of candidates are defined by the same Supreme Council ruling. The achievements of these candidates, as outlined in appropriate submissions by district and public organizations, and the appropriateness of the drafting of documents to the requirements of the Supreme Council’s decision, are under consideration. And unfortunately, we don't have the ability to test it in places that match the reality of these candidates. We therefore base ourselves on the position, the decision, on the official submission of district councils and youth social organizations. So from a formal point of view, these candidatures meet these requirements. As far as their relevance is concerned, I repeat, unfortunately we can't study in places. So you might actually have a logic in your words, but the committee considered it this way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u72	What I understand is that what you've been given you are immediately taking to the decision of the Supreme Council. Believe me, I don't mind any of the ones being served from the Plain area, but at six premiums, two representatives from one district alone. Well, other areas won't understand or understand. Yeah, let's exchange thoughts. Please log in from factions, write down what suggestions. Have a seat. The committee, of course, has considered what they have submitted, but it does not appoint a committee, it gives us a submission. The Supreme Council decides. That is why we need to decide justly and legally. Yes, please, the recording is coming. Hands on the buttons, please. Only Sulkovsky wrote it down. Please, Sulkovsky, what's more, he's a representative of Equality. Sulkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u73	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, this is the experience of parliamentary work. So, Your Honor Adam Ivanovich, I also support your approach and your proposal, but here, you can see that the committee was using those materials that were presented during the period that were on the committee. And so other regions, Adam Ivanovich, I think we just have to stay awake, defend the interests of our region and so on. And so, now that this is happening, I think we need to vote, support this project, and here, Adam Ivanovich, really, we need to work and the regions, work and the committee, and then there won't be any questions. So now it's just throwing out, voting, well, it doesn't make any sense. Of course, your position is right. That's why I'm asking you to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u74	Thank you. There are two proposals: one proposal, which is actively supported by the representative of Sulkowski, to vote as the committee has proposed, another to send a committee to work. In that order, I put it to a vote. Who is in favour of supporting Order 3662 on the 2007 award of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the contribution of young people to the development of parliamentaryism, local self-government, please identify. [[12:00:46]] For-52 Who's in charge of sending draft decree 3662 to the committee, taking into account the proposals that we have made, please vote. [[12:01:13]] For 243 The motives are over. 243 is being sent to the committee for processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the order of business for the next time. Now you're going to take a break for half an hour, then we're going to look at the agenda at 12:30, starting with the question of the appointment of judges. At 13 o'clock, taking into account the possibility and involvement of the Cabinet of Ministers and other officials, we'll have the session closed. It's 1:00. I'd like you to take your time and not be late. At 12:30 a.m., there will be an extension of the meeting. Please take a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u76	Please come into the session room. We'll continue the meeting. Please invite me. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to come to the session room, because we must vote immediately. We're continuing the meeting. We, the honourable colleagues, will have to make some more announcements regarding the appointment of out-of-order rural head elections. The vote is based on Decree No. 3711-5: “On the appointment of the successive elections of the Koshmanian village head, the Mashov district of Poltava region”. Please vote. [[12:31:15]] For 185 Show me the factions. Dear national colleagues, national deputies outside the session hall! We've got 29-30 minutes left. I'm asking you to come into the session room. Then you resolve the questions you want. Your job isn't cool. I am voting on the draft Resolution 3711-5 on the appointment of the Kosovo head of the Mashiiv region of Poltava. Please vote. [[12:32:21]] For 242 Decision taken. It is up to the vote to order the appointment of the successive election of the Piranian head of the Radehov district of Lviv district, registration number 3711-6. Please vote. September 9th. [[12:32:50]] For 239. A decision has been made. Project Order 3711-7 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Werdlovian village head of the Komenternov district of Odessa. Please vote. [[12:33:17]] For 251 It's been decided. And Order No. 3711-8 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Irish village head of the Volin Region of the Žitomir Region on 9 September. Please vote. [[12:33:44]] For 258. Decision taken. Let us turn to the question of the election of judges. Please, head of the committee on justice, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, present! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice, at its meeting on 20 June 2007, reviewed the submission of the Supreme Court of Justice to the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. The chairman of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, on the appointment of judges on an indefinite basis, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision No. 3706. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware of the procedure in which judges vote. Judges are in a guest bed. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine is the Sklar of Ludmila Timofievna; The Court of Appeal of the Winnitsk Region is Ivanichtuk Viktor. I'm sorry, Viktor Anatolyovich; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region – Budluc Mikola Safronović; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region – Tzatzaka Romana Pavlovich; the Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region – Mirontsov Viktor Mikolaiovich; the Military Court of Appeal of the Central Region, Jelfimov Aleksandra Vasilovic; The Donetsk Administrative Court of Appeal – Lašenka Dmitr Volodymirovich, Mironov Galina Mikhailnovna; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal is Igor Mihajlovich; The Lviv Court of Appeal of Agriculture is the Boiler of Oxan Vladimirovn; Sevastopol's Court of Appeal – Borisov's Yulia Volodymyrna; The local Ingulician. The Ingulatsky District Court of the Horn of Kryw Dnipropetrovsk Region – Knyazev Natalija Viacheslavna; the local Ternopil District Administrative Court, Martino Oksana Ivanovna; the local Kharkiv District Administrative Court – Kurilo Liana Vladimirovna; the local Hmelnick District Administrative Court, Laban Galina Vasilovna; the local district administrative court of Kyiv – Arsiriy Ruslan Alexanderovich, Philippeenko Olen Yevgenovna; Local Economic Court of the Donetsk Region - Lomovtsov Natalija Viktorovna; the local court of the Kirovograd district – the Collody of Svetlana Borisovna; Local Economic Court of the Cherkas region – Gračov Viktor Mikhajlovich; The local court of the Czernovets region is Kowalczuk Tetjan Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u79	Adam Ivanovich, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u80	Now, now, wait. First Kiwalov will say, then.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u81	No, no. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u82	All of it. That's the question, the observation to the Oxana Volodymyr. Yes, Matthew? Okay. No other comments? None. Then, with your permission, I will put to the vote a decree number 3706 on the election of judges on an uninterrupted basis, except for the time being, the Oxana Boiler Volodymyr. Please vote, the more on this list is Julia Volodymyrna. Vote. [[12:38:21]] For 254 Decision taken. Please, Matthew's microphone. The cooker please come to the microphone. Matthew Wallery's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the Justice Committee has received a complaint about the wrongful actions of Judge Zvarić Oksana Vladimirovna. If you want, I can read this complaint. The issue of VAT reimbursement is at this stage, and there are some questions for the judge. That's why I'd like to make sure that the committee sends me there or delegate someone accordingly. And then only bring this judge to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u84	Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to move the candidature of Zvaric Oksana Vladimirovna to the next meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u86	And the committee hasn't considered it, is there a serious complaint? Or, as always?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u87	We haven't considered it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u88	If you're serious, we believe you. Then let's not, excuse me, may not be fully parliamentary to the judge, let's let the committee handle the complaint in a calm manner, let's not make any decisions, and then we'll re-apply to the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? Okay. Thank you. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u89	In addition, honourable colleagues, the Committee on Justice, at its meeting on 26 June 2007, considered the appointment of the head of the Supreme Court of Agriculture of Ukraine and the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the election of the judges of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for an indefinite period of time, at number 3706-1. The committee recommends that the judges be appointed on an uninterrupted basis. The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, Bernadski Jean Alexandrovna, Volikak Ivan Mikolaiovich, and the Irpin City Court of Kiev, Rudnichenko Oksana Mikolayovna. Please support these candidatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u90	Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of a total decision under number 3706-1 on the selection of the judges mentioned in this order without delay, please vote. [[12:41:13]] For 257 It's been decided. Dear colleagues! Let's welcome the judges elected today on an untimely basis by the Supreme Council. We want them to do justice on the basis of laws that are passed only by the Supreme Council, not by laws that are established for themselves by the council of judges, or by the assembly of judges, or by some other body, as it pleases. And we wish them no longer to join us in the Supreme Council, but if they do, only for one purpose will they be assigned to senior positions. Good luck to you and to the day of the Constitution. Hold on to it first. Dear colleagues! I would like to request that we now include in the agenda and review the Order No. 3731 on the increase in expenditure on measures to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings in 2007. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. Vote. [[12:42:35]] For 251 Copy that. Dear colleagues! I would like to make only one change to this decree. The point here is that 330 million dollars in last year's budget have not been added to compensate for the loss of citizens' savings. Therefore, it is proposed that, not according to the results of the work in the first half of the year, the Office of Ministers should be invited to return to this issue and make proposals for changes to the state budget. What's more, you and I have the results of the third quarter to decide on the next increase in social benefits. And I think that makes sense. Is there no objection to voting with such an amendment? Not according to the results of the first half of the year because it was almost completed, but by the results of the work of the three quarters of 2007. Please, with such a correctional vote, vote in general. And the author of the legislative initiative, Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, also asks us to do so. Please vote. [[12:43:59]] For 261 It's been decided. Thank you. Once again, we have adopted a recommendation from the Cabinet of Ministers that, with the results of the three-quarters, it is possible to find the sums that 330 million have not been allocated in the past year to compensate for our citizens' lost savings to be included in the 2007 budget. That's the right offer. He stands a wise offer: 360 million who have to be put to the polls -- that would be right. We need to make a decision on the issues under discussion. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on Levels of Rights and Opportunities in Ukraine: Realities and Perspectives. We've been back to them three times. I'm voting on the decision, please vote. [[12:45:14]] For 258. It's been decided. Draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "To intensify Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union within the framework of the Euroregions and the perspective of cross-border cooperation". Please vote, we vote friendlyly. [[12:45:44]] For 241 Decision taken. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Protection of Intellectual Property Rights in Ukraine: Problems of Legislative Security and Law Enforcement". Registration number 3716. Please vote. [[12:46:14]] For 260 Decision taken. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "The National Innovation System of Ukraine: Problems of Formation and Implementation". Registration number 3717. Please be supportive. [[12:46:43]] For 254 A decision has been made. Please turn on the Dmitry Mikitovich microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to include in the agenda of today's session a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the subject “On the state of justice in Ukraine”. I think it will be important, considering that a meeting was held, that we had parliamentary hearings, and we made a unanimous decision on the committee yesterday to ask the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u92	Please, what's the number of the legislative initiative. Name the project number.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u93	Project number 3732.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u94	3732.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u95	Today it's been handed over to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u96	Who is in charge of including and considering Bill No. 3732 the draft decree on recommending parliamentary hearings for the execution of justice in Ukraine? Please vote. [[12:48:01]] For 255 255, decision taken. Yes, please, then I'm putting to the vote a motion for adoption of parliamentary hearing recommendations, bill number 3732. [[12:48:36]] For 261 For 261, the order was passed. Yes, dear colleagues, we would have to put the draft Law on the Health and Recreation of Children into the agenda and make a decision. Registration number 3515. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:49:13]] For 263 A decision has been made. Please, the author of the legislative initiative Hara Vasil Georgievovich. Please. There's no Harry, yeah. Please, from the committee, who? There's a singer. Please, then, Dry Jaroslav, from the Committee of Philindash to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, this bill is the implementation of our repeated efforts with you at the legislative level to address child health and rest. This has been motivated and motivated by many days of government and parliamentary hearing. Remember, here in this session hall, we have repeatedly listened to almost all governments and we have the same conclusion that the recovery and rest of children have no legislative basis, and hence it has no public attention, it's self-inflicted, where there are industrial giant companies that have already preserved their childhood health camps, the parents of these children have the opportunity to recover, and those former pioneer camps that were in the education departments have long since ceased to exist. Just look at the banks of our rivers, even in the Kyiv region or even in the Black Sea. Remember, you and I have recently considered a bill to prohibit companies without memory from alienating this property, where our children should be cured. So this bill is based on a number of child protection laws, on the basics of legislation in Ukraine, on health protection and on enforcement, including we have just adopted the National Action Plan Bill – Bill No. 2570, for which we voted today. The bill is designed to improve the legal mechanism for the health and rest of children. What do we achieve when we adopt this comprehensive and complex document? A material and technical base is being preserved and developed, the infrastructure of child health and rest. The other one. We will provide quality services for the recovery and rest of children under the strict control of the State. There is a government order for the recovery and rest of children of the extended categories. The availability, quality, and effectiveness of child - health services, services, health care, and recreation of children are ensured. Powers are defined, what has not so far been lacking, the authority and responsibility of government authorities, local governments, the public, trade unions, parents, and children’s health and recreation. Organizational personnel, scientific and methodological principles of health, rest in children's health facilities, various forms and directions of child recovery and recreation are being provided, and the domestic system of child recovery and rest, and the promotion of prestige at the international level is being improved. Because we have, according to a large estimate, one Artek, where perhaps someone from abroad wanted to rest without children. And all our health facilities today do not meet the requirements of European times. Dear colleagues! This bill was noted when the committee discussed, received comments from the Ministry of Finance. Because, of course, a matter such as recovery, child rest, will need some funds. But I don't think that we're here with you, in this room, all of us, or parents, or future parents, or already grandparents, we can regret those unfortunate few million dollars so that our children don't polish the sidewalks of Kiev or the Horn of Creature by flying, but that they, children, in the summer, have the opportunity to repair their health and not only from ecologically polluted Zaporozhye, Donetska, Lugansk, Dnipropetrovsk, but from those seemingly normal cities like Kiev, where also children absolutely need to rest in places other than where they now live. So I would ask, at the request of the group, the authors of this bill to support our bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u98	Thank you. Please sit down. He will answer you in detail, Alexander Mikolayovich. Yeah, ask him a question, no, ask him there, there, no microphone. Please, Filindash. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u99	Perhaps we will consider the Tax Code. The Minister's office says he's almost finished. That's a different question. Please, Eugene.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u100	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Family and Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism at its meeting on June 13, this year, discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children, submitted to Parliament by National Deputys Hara, Bondarczuk, Suhim and others. A similar bill was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on January 19, 2006, in the fourth call to Parliament. In the absence of time, this project was not considered in the first reading, despite the fact that the Chief Scientific and Export Authority of the Supreme Council made a positive conclusion on the adoption of the bill as a basis for the first reading. In accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, the draft Law “On the Recovery and Recreation of Children ” was withdrawn as a result of the final cadence of the fourth citation. However, taking into account the urgent need for legislative definition in the area of child health and rest, as well as the appeal of professional organizations, children's health managers, citizens to improve the legislative field in this field, the draft Law on the Recovery and Recreation of Children is being submitted to the National Deputies of Ukraine. The draft law has been drafted according to the laws of Ukraine since 26. 04. 01 “On Childhood Protection”, on the basis of the Ukrainian legislation “On Health Protection and the Implementation of the State Programme for the Rest and Recovery of Children for the period to 2008, approved by the Cabinet of 16 January 2003 and by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 8 September 2004 on the approval of the concept of the Ukrainian bill “On Child Health and Recreation” and taking into account the proposals of trade unions and the public. The adoption of the law will allow for a prerequisite for effective development in the area of child health and rest. The bill is designed to improve the legal framework for child health and rest. The draft Law on Child Health and Recreation defines the main orientations in public policy in the area of child health and rest, ensuring the guarantee and realization of the rights of the child in the field of child health and rest, establishing a system of health care, basic directions for the creation of social, economic and social conditions to ensure the right of children to health and rest, favourable conditions for quality health and rest, the functions of public authorities and local self-government bodies, the law, financial and organizational principles for the establishment and operation of children's health facilities, their rights and responsibilities. It envisions specific measures aimed at improving child health in Ukraine, which will promote international cooperation in the field. The adoption of this bill will require amendments to Ukraine's legislation and the development by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other central authorities of the executive branch of legislation in accordance with the legislation adopted. The adoption of the law will facilitate the creation of a legal and socio-economic basis for ensuring the rights of the child to health and rest, allowing for the identification of the powers of the authorities of the State, local self-government, the public and the professions in the area of child health and rest. The organizational principles of the healing process and the order in which health services are provided The law will ensure the preservation and development of the material and technical base of child health and rest facilities and the infrastructure of child health and rest, the improvement of the domestic system of child health and rest, and the promotion of its prestige at the international level. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted on a basis. That is what the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine said. The committee requests that the draft law be considered in the first reading and accepted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u101	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, the question is clear. Every time June comes along, we take appropriate decisions and commission the Cabinet of Ministers. So let's thank the authors of the legislative initiative, here are representatives of all factions who have decided to legitimize it once and for all. Since this affects budgetary expenditure, since there are 27 articles of the Budget Code, that all costs are introduced only the following year, because there are many and valid observations of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, let us adopt this law in the first reading, we will adopt it in the first reading, and we will ask the committee by September 1 to work to adopt it definitively in September and put it into effect the following year. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 3,515 of the Child’s Health and Recreation Act. Please vote. [[12:59:49]] For 263 Decision taken. For a brief review of the draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine, registration number 2867. [[on responsibility for using a child for begging]] [[Mirasnitzka project]] Please, Yuri Romanovich, two minutes. And prepare Malinowski from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would now like to present to you, in my opinion, an extremely important bill that will deal with amendments to the Ukrainian Criminal Code, and it relates to the problem that the Ukrainian public first poses. It's about the use of beggaring. You know, there are a lot of people on the streets of our cities who ask for money when they hold a baby. And our Criminal Code has 304 articles, and this is about involving children in begging. And I would like to introduce to this code article 150-1, which would provide responsibility for the use of children in begging. It is those children who cannot make their own decisions consciously or participate in begging or not taking. You know, in this business, and this is a big business, kids are being bought, kids are being kidnapped, these kids are getting drunk, including drugs, and they're using it to get rich. There are three cases: when children are used by parents, and this is the least responsible; the second when they are not used by parents, that is, guardians or third parties; and the third when they are used by an organized group, that is to say, in order to obtain a criminal profit by organized groups. I would like to invite you to support this bill, because we have also held public hearings, this is an initiative of Ukrainian citizens, that will prevent us from actually using children in beggaring, maybe contribute to reducing those.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u103	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u104	reduces the number of cases involving the sale of children as such. So I propose, since it's a simple bill, to accept it in the first reading and to take those comments or suggestions that will then be made into account in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u105	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Member of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Malinovski Oleksy Petrovich. Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u106	Honorary colleagues, the committee, after reviewing the bill, find it appropriate and timely. My colleague has already stated the motivation for adopting this bill. I want to say that this bill was also considered by the Committee on Family Affairs and Youths, and it also supported it. Our committee fully supports it and suggests that we accept it as a basis for the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u107	Thank you. Have a seat. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on responsibility for the use of a child for begging. [[Registration number 2867]] Please vote. [[13:04:01]] For 252 Copy that. The draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on strengthening liability for violations of land legislation is being considered, and the First Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection, Kurulenko Svetoslav Sergiyovich, reports. [[Registration number 2875]] I'm gonna have to get my son Sergey ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u108	The President-in-Office, the honourable national deputies, the amendment to the Ukrainian Act on State Control over the Use and Protection of Lands and the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is based on the need to strengthen administrative responsibility for violating the requirements of land legislation. It is proposed to supplement the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences with new articles and to establish administrative responsibility for the use of land without the right to establish a document, to remove and transfer the land cover without special permission for the rehabilitation of damaged land. In the current articles of the Code, which provides for responsibility for violating land laws, it is proposed that fines imposed on citizens and officials be increased. The main aspect of the bill is the identification of a list of public officials in the field of land use control and protection, which, in accordance with Article 238, will be given the right to deal with administrative offences and to impose administrative charges. The bill provides that administrative delinquency proceedings and administrative mergers will have the right of officials of the public authorities to control the use and protection of land. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the rational use and protection of land resources, the creation of a more effective mechanism for halting land-law violations and eliminating their negative consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mr. Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich, head of the committee's committee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u110	Honorary colleagues, the bill is intended to strengthen administrative responsibility for violating land laws by increasing fines and supplementing the code with new warehouses of administrative offences in the field of land law and by agreeing on an administrative code. violations of the Land Code, the laws of Ukraine on land protection and State control over land use and protection. It should be noted that the raw material of the project requires substantial work. In view of this, the Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development in general. However, the committee, after reviewing the draft bill, considers that it can be accepted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading on the basis of further substantive work. The main flaws: Some of the formulations of dispositions of violations of the articles of the law are in the area of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, which must also be respected. Therefore, the wording of the articles should be harmonized. The difference should only be in effect. The committee therefore agrees with the bill and proposes to accept it only on the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u111	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovitch. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? Then I put to the vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to increase the responsibility for violating the requirements of land legislation. Registration number 2875. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[13:08:22]] For 257 Decision taken. We need to put it in the agenda and make a decision: the 130th anniversary resolution of the great Ukrainian composer, the choir conductor, the folklore, the public actor Mikli Dmitrovic Leontovic. Registration number 3501. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:09:05]] For 257 The question is included. Please, Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I am the author of this bill, the representative of Winnitzkin, and I would like to support the draft decree to mark the 130th anniversary of the birth of Mikola Dmitrovitch Leontovich, which is being implemented in December of this year. If Leontovich had written, if he had processed just one piece of Stedric, he would have already entered the history of Ukrainian chorus music. But he has other outstanding works, so I think you'll support me, if we take this decision, we'll give appropriate instructions on how to explain this Jubilee, on how to do the necessary preparatory work, and so on, and thus we'll make a concrete contribution to strengthening the spirituality of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u113	Thank you. Any questions? Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please advise the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u114	Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality considered this decision at its meeting and also recommended that it be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u115	No questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u116	I can talk more, but.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u117	Clearly, the committee is working properly under the direction of the newly appointed head. Please sit down, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. We'll count you in on the asset. I'm voting on a bill number 3501, a decree marking the 40th anniversary of the birth of an outstanding Ukrainian composer, a choir conductor, a folklore, a public actor, Mikli Dmitrovitch Leontovich, registration number 3501. Please vote. [[13:11:59]] For 257 It's been decided. And, dear colleagues, please listen to the announcement. On June 26, 2006, the faction of the "Our Ukraine" bloc in its session cancelled its decision to exclude the faction of Ukrainian national deputies: Gnatenka, Gnatenka, Guvrey, Gureyev, Lešchenka, Mike, Feduna, Scribljak as such, in contravention of paragraph 3.6 of the "Our Ukraine" MP's position in the Fifth Council of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, let's put it in the agenda and consider the bill by number.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u118	Dear National Deputies! In line with the calendar plan today, the plenary work of the third session of the High Council for the Fifth Call is scheduled to be completed. The closing ceremony was attended by government officials, members of the Cabinet of Ministers authorized by human rights, other officials led by Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Please sit down. In this regard, I ask you to give me the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u119	The word is given by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u120	Dear Victor Fedorovich, distinguished national MPs, journalists, invited citizens of Ukraine. In specific circumstances today, the third session of the Fifth Call Parliament is closed. It's about statistics first. It was anticipated that during today’s session, 610 questions would be considered. They were included in the agenda. This plan has been implemented. A decision has been taken regarding 630 draft laws. Approved at the first reading of 97 bills, 330 were rejected and withdrawn, including 197 were considered revoked. Parliament's work is characterized as productive. But it's not just about quantity, it's about quality of project work. More than 80 percent of all drafts in the session hall were adopted with more than 300 and 400 votes. So all the talk about lack of stability, no unity in the branches of power, no stability in the consideration of issues in the sessional room, it's all conjecture, because there was never such a level of harmony in the voting, but very important laws, in the Supreme Council. The political situation today is not simple. The artificial political crisis created, the subjective reason for its creation, does not call anyone from sober politicians into question, and it is all the more surprising that the coalition and its government work effectively, as confirmed by the consequences of management. An additional demonstration of effectiveness is that the New Year's Eve decree has been adopted to step up social guarantees for people, wages and pensions and to ensure the full implementation of this decision, the decisions of the coalition and the government. There is every reason to expect that the coalition government can decide further in August, and at the latest in September, as a result of economic developments, on the issue of wage increases, pensions and social guarantees for Ukrainian citizens. This is fundamentally important, this is proof of the effectiveness of the coalition and its government. What reason, then, is there for those who want to destroy the stable work of authority? I think it's a desire to regain the authority of those who have not received support in the elections who, after having been given power by the President, consider themselves opposition. This applies to virtually all the executive branch in places subordinated to the President. The method of achieving the stated goal is to destabilize the situation, provoke the fundamental violations of the Constitution, interfere with the activities of the branches of power, use for the real and inherent capabilities of the President. Sadly, I have to talk about this, since all that is happening in the country today is related to this situation. We can't ignore her. The deliberate destruction of the judicial system of power, the blocking of the work of the Constitutional Court, is of particular concern. And what is happening with the Constitutional Court and the Central Electoral Commission is not just nonsense but abuse of the law and laws of Ukraine. We signed a joint statement with the President and the Prime Minister. Today, many begin to comment on how this statement is being made. I must say, on the part of the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, this statement is being made literally. In his actions, the President disavowed his statement because, first of all, he did not comply with paragraph 2 of the statement, second of all, paragraph 7 of the statement, which refers to the fact that no one has the right to intervene in the work of law enforcement authorities, courts and other authorities in Ukraine. [[on the procedure for the declaration of elections for the conduct of procedural matters provided for in 82 articles of the Constitution, the Supreme Council Rules and the Supreme Council Regulations]] Unfortunately, this paragraph does not apply to the President, as mentioned earlier. All the history that preceded the signing of the statement, and then, especially the effect on the judicial branch of power, on the Constitutional Court in particular, is evidence that the statement is used as an excuse for the legal acts. This, in my view, is unacceptable. We are not looking beyond the law of agreements with the president, but we are obliged to force him to respect the Constitution, for otherwise it will be much and damage to the state and will cost Ukraine dearly. [[All society, political organizations]] Ukraine will only have the prospect of all the authorities, and the President, first of all by setting an example, acting within the framework of the Constitution and the laws. There is no other way for Ukraine. Today's parliament is legitimate, legitimate, it can only be doubted after the official report by the CLTC that there is no substitute for MPs who do not want to work in parliament. Or they question people in cases that are legally uncomplainable. Many try to explain the nature of the conflict with the shortcomings of the Constitution. I'll be honest with you, it's evil. It's not the Constitution, it's those who deliberately violate it. Of course, the Constitution needs to be improved and the content is the second stage of political reform. We could consider this project today, send it to the Constitutional Court. What is the point of this document, with which all the deputies present are well acquainted, which has been discussed twice at the advisory council, with the participation of a wide range of representatives of local self-government bodies: the heads of cities, district heads, district councils, different levels of deputies? What is this project aimed at? To improve the mechanism of interaction between the higher authorities, including the existing negative experience of relations between the Supreme Council, the President and the Cabinet of Ministers. Directed to improve the mechanism for the State to perform its functions as justice, to ensure effective judicial control. To provide or improve local self - government systems, filling them with real meaning, which is particularly emphasized by local councillors. The provisions of the bill aimed at improving the mechanism for the functioning of state authority should ensure the proper implementation of the constitutional principle of the division of power, the system of deterrence and counter-aggressors inherent in the institutions of power in the parliamentary and presidential republics. This part suggests: - to complete the mechanism to ensure the continuity of the functioning of the Ukrainian Parliament, so that no one will be tempted to explain from which and by which time Parliament can work. - create an effective system of executive power. There is a single-channel formation of the Cabinet of Ministers, because a dual-channel cabinet brings no-necessary tension and contradicts the logic of the parliamentary-presidential form of government. - to clarify the constitutional mechanism of interaction in the power triangle of the President-Parliament-Government. - to prevent the political blocking of the activities of the parliamentary government majority on the part of the President. The procedure for overcoming the President’s veto is consistent with the established constitutional practice of the European States. The President's legal status has been clarified, abstract powers have been excluded, and the powers, the executive powers handed over to the Cabinet of Ministers, have been brought to European standards the extent of guarantees of the President's integrity. In particular, I would like to point out that the draft defines the amount of parliamentary immunity that extends only in cases where punishment is possible in the form of restrictions on the freedom of the MP. ‘ In all other relations, the deputy acts like any citizen of the state. I think that's the answer to all the political speculation that we hear once and for all in this respect. Without a doubt, we should apply this principle to other subjects of authority who enjoy a status of inviolability. This applies both to the judges and to the President himself and to other officials. In order to improve the State's function of justice and the provision of constitutional law, the bill proposes to optimize the system of judicial system and judiciary, to create conditions for Ukraine's integration into the international judicial defence system through the recognition and enforcement of decisions of judicial bodies that are not part of the Ukrainian court system. There are prerequisites for the exercise by the people of Ukraine of the right to exercise judicial authority through a jury institution, and there are increased requirements for candidates for judges. - to strengthen the guarantees of the independence of the judiciary. There is a provision for the appointment of administrative posts in the courts directly by the judicial authorities, the scope of the immunity of judges and the procedure for drawing them to criminal responsibility in appropriate cases. It is envisaged that the competence of the Constitutional Court should be clarified in view of the failure of the Court to ensure that the relevant cases are dealt with, that the powers to interpret the laws are conferred on the Parliament of Ukraine and that the efforts of the Constitutional Court are directed solely at deciding on the constitutionality of the relevant acts and the interpretation of the Constitution. Let me give you an example. During the 11 years of the Constitutional Court, only 83 cases have been dealt with regarding the constitutionality of acts, while more than 40,000 have been accepted. And they often need to be interpreted to fit the Constitution and the content of the acts themselves. Obviously, to simplify this procedure and, in view of the fact that this is practiced in many of the world’s constitutions, an interpretation of its own laws can be made by the body that creates these laws. The task of the Constitutional Court is to analyse the conformity of the laws of the Constitution, the basic law of Ukraine or the interpretation of the Constitution itself. Finally, it is proposed to clarify the powers of the prosecutor's office, taking into account the recommendations of the Council of Europe to optimize the powers of the High Council of Justice. With a view to filling the guarantees of local self - government with real meaning, it is suggested that the issue of the organization of public authority be improved at the local level. This should ensure the organizational, economic, and other autonomy of local self - government. It is proposed that the project will allow district and district boards of their own executive bodies and their respective local budgets, municipal property management, and direct implementation of the decision-making bodies. In order to effectively fill local budgets, it is envisaged that a minimum share of taxes and congregations should be determined by law in order to generate their income. It is proposed that the term of office of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and rural, rural, urban, and people’s, namely, five years should be applied. Next. We need to rule out a non-judicial mechanism to stop acts of local self - government. And finally, create preconditions for optimizing the administrative and territorial system in the country. The project takes into account the consultations we conducted with local authorities. I would like to stress that this is entirely in line with the document, the memorandum we signed in 2003 with the President and the leaders of the faction or political parties of the Socialist, Communist, BUT and Our Ukraine. That's exactly what meets the needs of society, and I'm happy that the government will support these very approaches. However, I think it would be useful for professionals of different levels, the public, and experts of the Venice Commission to express their views on the content of the changes that have been prepared. So that no one will be tempted to put a cat in a bag into a referendum during a possible election and then to accuse others of, you see, the Constitution or changes to the Constitution were written on their knees. [[If that happens]] I think that speculation about how to look at changes to the Constitution is already quite well known and does not give an impression of novelty. But a broad discussion of the draft changes will be absolutely beneficial for society, for power, for parliament, to deal with this issue in the final version. We have to come from what citizens will consider their power if they really see its influence where the community lives: in the village, in the village, in the city. Therefore, the main task for Parliament is to change the Constitution and the laws to move real power to places, to people, and those who oppose that perspective are opposed to people's interests. And that's why we're going to stand up against those who are going to block that change. Parliament and government are ready to respond legislatively to the needs of local self - government today. We are prevented from doing so by an appropriate power institution that does not like the decentralization of power, and there is a desire to concentrate it in our hands as it was before 2004. It would be good for the Venice Commission to also make a statement on this point. To confirm once again her proposals regarding the status of an imperative mandate. We also want the opposition to participate in the debate on the Constitution. Because the coalition was working on the project, and he knows it. And if early elections were to take place, an increase in the composition of the same coalition would take place quickly, it would quickly accept changes to the Constitution. However, the opposition needs to express its opinion on this document. Now a few words about the order of work in the summer months. You know that in early July there will be meetings of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, important issues will be addressed. [[5-9 digits]] This is a great privilege for our nation because we have chosen such a right. If you need Parliament, you can meet at any time for an emergency session, and I would like to stress that while you're resting, you don't forget that situation. The ruling on this last week, you know that, too. To conclude, I sincerely wish that all of you would have productive meetings with the electorate. Go to the people, tell them the truth, tell them all the things you have in your soul, like the impression of working in Parliament during the third session and the entire cadence of today’s vocation. Talk to people, because they are the source of power, the only source of power that no one can possess. I also want to rest so that there is enough strength during the next session, which is scheduled to begin on the calendar of September 4, this year, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Once again, I wish everyone good, success and willingness to work in Parliament during the fourth session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u121	And also in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, I announce the third session of the Supreme Council of V calling. Wait, I'm not announcing it. Victor Fedorovich wants to make a statement. Please. Let's give him the opportunity to speak within the limits of today's session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u122	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! I couldn't help but stand before you. First of all, I would like to thank you all for the cooperation that we have with you more than a year after the 2006 elections. And the government has been working for 11 months, almost without a few days. And today I held a press conference in the first half of this year, because it ends when you take these weekends, the holidays. On these very holidays, I say, the celebration of the Constitution of Ukraine, which is not being carried out, unfortunately. It's a holiday, but you and I, first and foremost, have to sum it up, because it's not only the result of our cooperation with you, it's the result of the work of the whole state, of all the working groups, of the peasants, of the workers. So I would like to say very briefly, but to repeat what I said, I'm pleased to say that you and I were able to do an anti-crisis program that we completed last year, and this has laid the foundation for a stable growth of the economy, i.e. the growth rate of the internal gross product is almost eight percent since August last year. This is more than double the 2006 work of the past government. By the way, our government has been a record player in recent years: we have been working for 11 months, and previous governments have been working for five and seven months. I'm saying this, you know, this kind of humor, as they say, with tears in our eyes, because we have to respond responsibly to the lives of our citizens, to our state. The state can't be in that state when. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, no one knows. This has a very negative effect on our international relationship. You and I know that very well, because a partner who's not supposed to. Unpredictable, the partner that's hard to understand is an unreliable partner. But we've managed to convince our partners over this period of time that we're looking for civilized, they say, world rules of play. We've convinced our investors, and this has given us confidence, and 32 percent of the increase in investment is a great indicator, and that's twice as good as it was in 2006 with the same period. And if you take 2005, that's 5 times more. And that's the basis for economic development. You and I know that if there's no investment, if there's no technological innovation, there's no growth in production, there's no economy. By the way, the increase in production over the six months is going to be 12 percent. That's also a great indicator. You and I have managed to make a series of decisions based on the growth of the economy and the rise in the social standards of our citizens' lives. And one of the main decisions that we've made with you is raising wages and pensions three times a year. I hope that in September I will make such an offer, we will raise the third time a year's wages and pensions for our citizens. And we're going to get the result of a wage and income increase of 20 percent and 25 percent, respectively. We get, for example, a 1.4-fold raise in the salaries of teachers and doctors. These are unprecedented steps in the history of our country. And I want to say that this has been done with you because a mechanism, an effective mechanism for government and parliament cooperation, has been created. It's not an easy job, and you and I know as well as we do in this room, and outside this room, what discussions have been going on under every law, as we have convinced you that we need to count on a government that plans and executes our country's socio-economic development programme. And in many cases we have managed to make a deal with you. Alexander Aleksandrovitch said a lot about it in his speech. You are well aware that the government has begun preparing a strategy for Ukraine’s development for the next five years. And I want to tell you that this strategy is practically prepared. It envisions the beginning of systemic reforms that our country needs very much and that have accumulated over all the years of independence and that have not been possible. Why, because if you start any reform, you have to continue. And when it's over, no one knows, because there's no limit to improvement. But the main thing is not to stand still, the main thing is to move forward. And we were already ready to take serious steps that not only our country but the whole world society is looking forward to. Certainly, civil hearings must be held before making such decisions that are favorable to our country. It is necessary that all political forces, not only those represented in Parliament, but all who are willing to participate in this should participate. We need to work on the expert conclusions of international experts, by the way, which we've already received in part. But this process can only move when there is a stable system of government, when there is a stable situation in the country, when a united authority seeks effective cooperation. This system certainly didn't work with you because there was very little time. And our future with you will depend on how far we can go in the near future. Because without the development of an effective system of government, a country cannot live. And that's what we saw with you during this political crisis, how much we say everything we don't look at is thin. It's where it's thin, it's where it's torn. And since you and I weren't dragging this political situation, it was explosive all the time. And why did we take these steps that we've taken, I mean, to deal with this crisis? We went, first of all, because we are responsible for each of our words and steps. Because we knew, if we didn't, our opponents, the opposition that the President had united and, in fact, led it, they were going, as they say, on the way without rules. And I recently had a conversation with a very well-known man in our country, I don't want to call his name, we've talked to him about it, and he says, "When does any competition take place, in any kind of sport, if one side plays by the rules, and one side doesn't have rules, who has the advantage? The one without rules." And please tell me, in a civilized world, is that possible or not? Impossible. Impossible. And if our country wants to build a civilized democratic country, the slogans of opposition. They say one thing and they do another. We are used to this, but it is certainly impossible to accept it. That's what they say is different. So the country that's at the heart of Europe, why don't you ask any European policy today, say, please, is there a future in that country -- to claim for a European country? None. I had a conversation with many politicians on this subject. The fact that there is silence in relation to Ukraine does not mean that the civilized world agrees. This means that a civilized world has patience, experience. And I think there's no limit to patience, as they say. But something has to be done. What should we do? Of course, we need to change the Constitution, if we're going to talk about the future, we need to create these imbalances between the branches of power that would allow the country to prevent the crisis that we're experiencing right now. And when we talk about future elections, we need to talk about the goal that we are achieving here. If we reach the goal of never again in our country, the authorities will stop the people from living, and the authorities will work for the state and for the people, and they will never repeat themselves like this, I would say, African options. Don't let that offend our friends. [[Applause]] But if we reach that goal, then it is appropriate to do so. Then we'll get out of the election stronger. I told a press conference today that it's impossible to live in a situation like this. If we take our family, as it were, the Ukrainian family, and see what is happening now, something must be done. So I expressed my point of view. I made my point when I signed a joint statement and today I was talking at a press conference, and now I'm saying that it's impossible to live in this situation without holding a presidential election. But it is very important, very important that we keep them exclusively within the framework of the Constitution, the Ukrainian laws, and never again allow this to happen again. There can be no such thing in any civilized country that a minority dictates the majority’s will and power, as long as it fears civil opposition and so forth, to gain power. I think the main word, after all, should be the Ukrainian people. And we can't appeal to anyone today, only the Ukrainian people have to express their point of view, make conclusions, and politicians have to do everything they can to prevent that from happening in the future. So when I finish my short speech, I want to say, dear colleagues, that from the first and last days we have been and will be supporters of the building up of a strong, democratic country. With laws, the Constitution, and the exercise of human rights, it is our principle that we will stand up for and that we will live forever. And today, I would like to thank all of you, dear colleagues, for our cooperation, for being able to build our state with you and improve the lives of our people. Thank you for your attention and for your meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-27-m0.u123	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich, for your good wishes. I'm taking this opportunity, until the meeting is closed, to say a few words about the Constitution. In this room, I now see about one and a half dozen people who were directly involved in the adoption of the Constitution. They can confirm and the work that went on over this project is now the Basic Law, and the practice of its application and analysis, which we also have in Ukraine, lawyers, and abroad, shows that we have adopted one of the best fundamental laws in the world. And it's not the Constitution's fault, I'm going to repeat that today's political situation develops in this way, it's the fault of those subjects for whom the Constitution is nothing for which there is no practice and experience, and understanding the importance of upholding the Constitution. So once again, not arguing with Victor Fedorovich, because he's right in his conclusions, but paying attention to his words about how they play, let's say, rivals or opponents, we need to keep in mind, and in order for the citizens to know, everything is being done today not to make elections, but to ensure that the elections are falsified. And it's a very big danger, because it can all be done under the lynx or under the brand of compliance with the Constitution. Therefore, we need to be very careful. And once again, to ensure that paragraph 2 of the joint statement is implemented, that all powers are exercised by each authority and that all functions are performed by the Constitutional Court, by the courts of general jurisdiction and by the Central Electoral Commission, so that it does not turn out that someone has gone too far to win. Only the Constitution and the source of power, the people, can win. If we provide for all of this, then we will all be honored and grateful. And that's exactly what we're going to be coming out of these conditions, both in the coming months and in the coming days. Once again I wanted to welcome all of you, the whole Ukrainian society with the Day of Constitution, because it is a great, indeed, holiday for the state, for the people who are aware of their dignity and see their prospects. With the feast of you. I declare the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the fifth call closed. Thank you all. Good-bye.
