ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, members of the Cabinet of Journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, radio and television. I remind you that today the first Tuesday of September, and according to the Constitution on this day, the session of the Supreme Council opens. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Please enable the login system. [[10:00:37]] There were 269 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of Parliament is open. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I declare the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the 5th General Assembly open. Please sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, on August 18, this year, 63rd, a Ukrainian national deputy, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, a member of the Party of the Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Prokopenko Viktor Evgenovic. I ask you to honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the speech is given by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, leaders of the department, journalists and guests of the Supreme Council, distinguished fellow countrymen! Opening the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Appeal, he is obliged to address a number of general issues that concern Parliament, its place in the system of government, and the features of the current political situation. Obliged because in recent months we have heard many comments to Parliament from those who do not have the authority to do so. But that would be not true. Various interpreters probably know they're doing evil, but they're manically continuing to twist the Constitution, and laws, other normative acts, trying to destroy the constitutional system in the state, in pursuit of government chaos. In accordance with Ukrainian legislation, such acts are criminalized and provide for the responsibility of specific officials. Such a responsibility will surely come, and I want to emphasize it. It is unfortunate that the campaign against the Constitution and Parliament is led by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, a man who would be in the position to take the opposite position: to be a guarantor of respect for the Constitution and the rule of law. It is a pity that for more than a year, the Ukrainian authorities, instead of working productively, purposefully to protect the interests of the people and the state, are trying to neutralize the influences of the Bank, which is a generator of destructive actions, more simply a nuisance. Many times, this situation has been given a legal assessment, although everyone understands well: such an assessment must have the same consequences, and it requires the conclusions of the only authority empowered to do so, the Constitutional Court. Understanding the content of possible conclusions, fearing such conclusions, the President's Secretariat, so the President is blocking the work of the Constitutional Court, while blackmailing threats, using force structures. The Central Election Commission is subject to similar pressure, although without force, which is precisely why it cannot so far be able to respond to 2 requests from the Supreme Council on whether or not it can, i.e. the Central Election Commission, be recognized as candidates instead of those who don't want to be vice-deputies on the lists of two parties. This is artificially created political situation from which the election is anticipated. That is, the entire nation is being drawn into the imposed structures of adventure. He, the people, apparently already realized that distortions, shifts of accents, ordinary deceptions are tools from adventurers' arsenals. This adventure, in turn, has a specific price. And it's measured, not by millions, but by billions of dollars of national money, by the loss of stability, by the mistrust of foreign partners and investors. Most often, they use the argument of bribery of deputies, so-called political corruption. It would seem that if a group of deputies came out of our Ukraine and BUT, who is to blame? Guys? Coalition? The government? Obviously, those who failed to ensure the unity of the faction are to blame. Why, then, do they hypocritically translate their sin into others, including voters? Is this how they want to change the results of last year's elections? It won't work. I understand that the opening statement would not have to be so attached to the nuances of political events, but they do have to do so to explain the legal nature of certain things. One of them is the rightfulness of a Parliamentary sitting, its legitimacy. I have to remind some that Ukraine is a European state based on European values, the content of the Constitution as well. Articles 1st, 3rd, 5th, 6th, 8th, 15th, 19th and others reflect the European approach to the role and place of state in a society where principles such as the rule of law, democracy, the division of power into legislative, enforcement and court, parliamentaryism, the continuity of power, people as the source of power. The Constitution provides for the interaction of branches of power and prevents the usurpation of power of any branch. Therefore, I am just reminding you that the powers of certain institutions of authority can only be exercised in the manner and within the limits defined by the Basic Law, and it directly indicates that Parliament's mandate is terminated only from the opening of the first Parliamentary Assembly of a new convening. Just so, regardless of what Parliament has created through the next or the next election. And only with the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council do they suspend the powers of deputies. That's what the 81st article of the Constitution says. This is what the Basic Law dictates, and it should be governed, not by chimers such as: There is no Supreme Council, and deputies are still allowed to exercise their powers. Who's allowed? Because the deputy has the only representative mandate from the people, not from the officials, let them have the highest rank. With regard to Parliament's non-authority on the basis of the 82nd article of the Constitution, it is only temporary until it is restored on the basis of article 101 of the Electoral Act. This is confirmed by the Constitutional Court five years ago. And trying to leave the state without Parliament at any time is a violation of article 5 of the Constitution, that is, by usurping power, as well as by preventing MPs from exercising their powers -- 77. Article 76 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In this way, I want to calm some of the hot heads and doubts of others: the next session and our meetings are fully justified and are in line with the constitutional principles that are confirmed in the first article 83 and in part in the second and third articles of article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The holding of this sitting is the responsibility of the deputies. It is also important because, as evidenced by the analysis of political developments, we cannot ignore the danger of planned chaos when, as a result, the newly elected Supreme Council will not be able to gain full importance as a result of the undesirable result for any of the electorate. So that no one will be tempted to play with this situation by referring to the 30-day break in the work of Parliament mentioned in article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine. None of this is gonna work. If the mandate of the new parliament is not vested after the elections, then the Parliament elected on 26 March 2006 will act in full compliance with the Basic Law and will guarantee our current meeting and others, including plenary forms of work, depending on how we determine how we respond to the needs of society and the state. I would like to remind him that our meetings are a kind of protection for the President, and at a time when, after the election of his environment, he will be subjected to the tempting formula of presidential rule, the pseudo of government, I will repeat some of yesterday’s phrase used in the address of the head of state. Such a government will not be like a pseudonym for a new Constitution designed in contravention of the requirements of the Basic Law. I say this calmly and with conviction, because the legal basis behind this is our Constitution and the legislation of Ukraine. We have prepared a detailed plan for the fourth session on the basis of a forward-looking legislative work plan, as well as proposals by parliament committees. It may have to be implemented after September, but some issues need to be identified earlier, particularly with regard to next year’s budget. The presentation of this project should be made in Parliament within the time frame defined by the Constitution and the Budget Code in order not to delay the government's work in this direction. Similarly, draft amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine should be considered in part, even if the inviolability of deputies and other officials should be reversed. I would not want to go into battle with windmills for this reason, so I will say that these proposals have been registered in Parliament for a long time, not for political conjuncture, but exclusively for European practice. I do not hide that it will be beneficial for people to hear the obvious things on the part of the so - called opposition imposed as an invention and an initiative that has never been made. In fact, this initiative could have been implemented long ago if it had been sincere and well-founded. It seems that some of the electoral subjects have great appetites in the face of the poverty of ideas. I call on everyone to be weighed down, to be responsible for the exercise of the powers of the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! Deputies! Prior to the third session, the Supreme Council approved the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. In line with the calendar plan for the fourth session today, we are working in plenary mode, and the next days of the week the Supreme Council is working on committees and factions, and we will also be set apart from the calendar work plan. In accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Council today, we have 25 minutes for statements by authorized factions of five minutes each with proposals for announcements, statements and messages, and 15 minutes for speeches by members of the People's Parliament, the Conciliation Council of yesterday at its meeting. I'm asking the factions to sign up for the National Deputies. And from the deputies, please. Please, Stoyan. From the faction of “Regions”, I understand. Acid? Makeenka, please. He's being followed by Zamkovenko from the BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u5	Dear Alexander Alexander, Reverend Mikola Janovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, honourable voters! In agreement with Ukraine's successive parliamentary elections, the Party of Regions took a significant step towards meeting its opponents and, above all, the President of Ukraine. Against the backdrop of economic stability and sustained economic development, the country was artificially confronted with the need to hold successive parliamentary elections. Despite the unprecedented and absurdity of the situation, the Party of Regions agreed to an election. The number one priority for us has always been stability and peace in the state. We agreed to the election by relying on the sober reasoning of our opponents, coming out of the desire to preserve the face of Ukraine in the world and sincerely wanting Ukraine to come out of the political crisis. A party of regions has repeatedly stressed our priority -- allowing people to make their own choices honestly and forcefully. Sadly, today’s political practice has led to a reversal. It has to be noted that our opponents ignore both democratic society and political agreements. First. Never before has the vertical of public administrations been involved in active election work been involved in such a large, unconcealed and cynical way. The other one. Political arrangements between the leaders of the state envisioned the creation of a single voter register, since there is no objective data on voters in Ukraine. By order of the President of Ukraine, the government’s decision on certain measures to improve the citizens’ accounting system used to enforce Ukraine’s laws violates these agreements on the integrity and transparency of the electoral campaign and paves the way for large-scale falsifications. Third. The President of Ukraine appealed to the Constitutional Court to submit some of the provisions of the Law on the Election of Deputies on the non-compliance of the Constitution of Ukraine. And this is despite the fact that the law was voted in the Supreme Council by the constitutional composition of the national deputies. Why, what is the purpose of all of this? Our opponents don't need fair elections, they need power. So now the 2004 election scenario is being resuscitated, when society literally bombed with the thesis that if we don't win, the elections are faked. Today, the president’s team is preparing so - called legal technologies to vote for its own benefit. First time. These are the voices of people working in the west who do not live in Ukraine but who are voted in Ukraine. It is not a secret that the largest percentage of such voters in Western Ukraine. The second is the attempt to revoke the House Voting Court through the Constitutional Court. Today we have a situation where the polling stations in eastern Ukraine are nearly twice as many as in western Ukraine. Therefore, people of old age, people with special needs in the East, will have much more difficulty in making use of their constitutional rights. Dear voters, we are now ready to vote in favour of removing the MP's in touch with all the benefits and putting a dot on this whole ridiculous campaign. We believe that our vote should be a name. And this list should be published in the parliamentary press. Let our opponents explain to their constituents what they spoke of for three months from the rostrums of political estration. Let them demonstrate that, besides primitive populism, they have at least one soul. Under the harsh political competition and the criticism of the opposition, the Janukovich government acted in a balanced and effective manner. In particular, Ukraine has managed to maintain macroeconomic and financial stability, industry and industrial infrastructure work confidently, and there is a planned preparation of life-saving systems for winter work. Despite the political disorganization of the Party of Regions and the government of Yanukovic, a new social package aimed at improving the quality of life of Ukrainian citizens has been developed to introduce European social protection standards. Among the commitments, development and provision of a socially oriented budget for 2008, which, according to the Constitution of Article 96, will be submitted by the Government to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by September 15. Elections should not be a natural disaster for the country, not a war of compromises or a time of mutual resentment. This is first of all an honest, open contest for voters' votes, it's a fight for programs and ideas, not a fight without rules. We urge all responsible political forces to sign a code of conduct that will begin with new traditions of fair political struggle. The party of regions has made a difficult decision: to go to elections so as not to lose the state. But today, from this rostrum, we claim with all responsibility that there was no legal, no socio-economic basis for ending the powers of an active parliament. History will put everything in its place. Our party will not allow anyone to bribe Parliamentarianism and Parliament. We believe that the principle of continuity in the work of power must work independently of the legal nihilism of our opponents. The Supreme Council of the Fifth Call is valid, legitimate, and will act in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u6	Thank you. The word is given by Mikola Ivanovich of the BUT faction, please. Behind him is Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u7	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, voters, guests, invitees. I wouldn't have come out to this rostrum if I hadn't heard the statements that the President said, my colleagues in Parliament of the Fifth Call, which brutally, violating the Constitution of Ukraine, hadn't entered the session hall, and only then came out to this rostrum, and I want to make a statement that my colleagues, the electors, that I was never a traitor, like my comrades, who were glued to me. Today the political situation that is in our country and the oppression around the extraneous elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine forces me as a lawyer, as a prominent lawyer, to say to the judge that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine is full and valid. And if any of us senior officials think it's an adventure, that it's a show, then first of all, these colleagues and these politicians did their own show in Ukraine. The show that's in conflict with the Constitution. I was too sad to hear yesterday's statement by the President of Ukraine, where he called the meeting an adventure for a session of the queue, which is provided by the Constitution of the Ukrainian People's Deputies. The statement also said that we, the national deputies of Ukraine today, are threatening to have legal consequences. Obviously, Mr. President, who is the guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine, should know that the authority of the Supreme Council and the authority of the national MP are terminated in accordance with the Constitution. When is the first session of the newly elected parliament. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Frost, has just said that. And I would like to tell you that the Constitution of Ukraine, which was adopted in 1996, clearly foresees a mechanism when the powers of the Supreme Council and of the National Deputy of Ukraine are formed. Obviously, it would be necessary for these people to think about what they are doing, and these elections are out of order, because the joint statement of the three officials of the State made it clear and clear that the basis for the successive elections is the invalidity of the Supreme Council in accordance with article 82 of the Constitution. I would like to ask politicians, my colleagues: “Please tell me where are the legal grounds and the legal grounds for the fact that the Supreme Council has virtually ceased its mandate, and is it incomplete?” I would also like to ask another question in this regard: “And please tell me why no one, no President, or any other politicians who are calling for out-of-court elections and calling the Supreme Council a ‘show’, why they will not say anywhere about the brutal violation of article 38 of the Constitution. Those candidates of the national MPs who were elected by the people, who had been expelled from the lists on their own, and they had no right to charge this decision in court, they had no right to defend their rights. This is wrong. This is evidence of what is in Ukraine, a brutal violation of the Constitution. We're talking about our kind of session, the meeting of the national MPs being carried by the pianist West. But let's see if you're pianists. We have really come together to improve our conditions. The laws are passed in the Supreme Council, and the President doesn't sign them. Instead, they shout out about what they want to do to make our people live better. Yeah, why didn't you do that? You've been in power for two years. Why didn't you put together your MPs and your mandates and your integrity and talk about when you were in power? The election's just starting, you start talking about it right now. I'd like to say. When you're on the road, you can always see a poster with an ad that says, "Ukrainian breakthrough, you want to make your own proposals." I want to make an offer today because I'm on the phone, no one's picking up that phone until the "Ukrainen breakthrough". Gentlemen, let's take all these posters off, let's get that commercial you have, and give it to those childless kids that we need. We're giving that money to the pensioners. And then everything will be fine in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u8	Thank you. Instead of Bondarczuk, Boki Ivan Sidorovich has the word of a faction of socialists. Simonenko will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u9	John Boki, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear voters, dear colleagues, today we have a historic decision to make -- a decision to remove the intrusiveness of the President of Ukraine and of the national deputies of Ukraine, as well as to approve amendments to the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies on the voluntary waiver of privileges. We are doing this calmly, fully aware that this radical step must be taken to stop speculation around the clear and far-reaching issues. Yesterday, we witnessed too much of the nervous reaction of some masters, such as Yushchenka, Lucenka, to our meetings with you and to the decisions we need to make. Yushchenko, apparently afraid that the intrepidness is being removed, does not recognize us at all that there is no Supreme Council. But it's a problem of his legal illiteracy and culture, and here all we have to do is pay tribute to the President's Institute and advise him to read the Constitution to the media and then go out to the people so that he doesn't feel ashamed. Something like that last night and Lucenko. Both him and Yushchenka and Timoshenko can be understood: to set up such hooks throughout the country with oaths, oaths, theatre exits, clowns, and here the Supreme Council with one change to the Constitution and laws without any fuss solves this vicious, desolate problem. And they stand before the electorate like ordinary, banal political nudists. All they have to do is scream, how smart and beautiful they are. What are they really like? Well, you can't talk about Yushchenka. He speaks with an aplomb of someone's violation of agreements, promises and laws, while he himself is a classic, a true, questionable reputation as a classic, and a breach of agreements, and ignoring the Constitution, and any respect for his own promises. I remind you: Yushchenko has not fulfilled any of his promises in Maidan, he has made his draft decrees a mockery, he has not separated the business from the authorities, he has not put the bandits in prison, the rich have not helped the poor, he has trampled the deal with Frost since November 6, 2004. All of this in the nation is called treachery, idolatry, and homosexuality. Well, as for the morality and loyalty of Yushchenko, for some reason this subject is not for him. And here's about his company, honestly, I'm not going to understand the reason why our President loves Lucenk for making him the first issue of his list. Well, what he saw and found in him was his own. But to remain silent after it became known that Lucenko was deceiving compensation in the Supreme Council for the sum of 277,000,300 dollars, as if a homeless deputy, living in a perfectly decent government apartment, is the same thing, Mr. President, to tell you that this is your most trusted partner in the fight against the benefits of a common fraud. Everyone knows that Lucenka’s fault in his work at the Ministry of State budget lost one billion 600 million dollars. And this is not what the President thinks is a sin, and he pushes his favorite into big politics. What are these moral criteria of the President? What kind of “loving friends ” surround him? You see, in London, Boris Berezowski is suing Tretyakov and Zwania for $22 million. And for Yushchenk and Lucenka, it's almost ideal. There are passions around the Stick, and Lucenko protects it. However, knowing that he is a bird, Lucenka, you are no longer surprised. And their allies are in the same order. Take the well-known authors of the Pinzenic and Teryochin trust decree, where they are now the most respected people. The thief Lazko is almost the voice of the BUT faction. Even though it is surprising that Timoshenko herself, led by Lazarenko through her EESU, a three - way gas pipe, sucked out and put the entire Ukrainian economy on the blades. And now it is filled with “crocodilian ” tears. It is evident that for Yashchenka, this is the most kind of company he has by spirit and perhaps by the formula of blood. Today, at all intersections, these people are fooling the people and taking them to elections. Yet, we are gathered to put an end to their speculation. I don't want to remind you that Yushchenko is actually continuing the work that Mussolini, Hitler, Boris Yeltsin did. But he may not be shocked by such historical events outside the historical neighborhood. Let's put an end to this, and today let's make the beginning of this great thing to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u10	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u11	Respected colleagues, TVs, radios, our voters, electoral campaigns, which are essentially illegal, anti-constitutional, have not only identified the parties to the electoral process, but have already identified the main violator of the law and the Constitution. Every day, we are faced with new threats and new mechanisms for falsifying elections. We are faced with the fact that today public money, budgetary money is not used on appointment. And I now wish to address the Office of the Prosecutor-General and the Court of Auditors: to immediately investigate why budget money is being used for the purpose of one political force, “Our Ukraine”? As the head of the President's Secretariat, he is also the head of our defence headquarters, as well as the heads of the district administrations are headed by the district headquarters. I believe that today the President has shown his true identity by addressing the same Constitutional Court that he has discredited, demanding the breach of an agreement and compromise that has been reached with regard to those citizens who have left Ukraine and have not returned to the polls. The President has already stated today that he is not interested in the future parliament, because he has decided to adopt the dictatorship for himself at a constitutional assembly. Administrative courts have also been used to deprive our veterans of their right to vote at home. I would like to inform you, distinguished voters, that on August 6th, a “secret dinner” was held in the face of Yushchenko, 1997aichenko and Balogi, where there was a detailed discussion and discussion on how to destroy the National Unity Coalition today by preventing the Communist Party from voting in Parliament. It is for this purpose that the relevant means of information are mandated to organize complete, in fact, information on the company's discreditation, to develop a system of non-competitiveness, to train a special 40 people to set up provocations, to organize “carousels”. In the Crimea, a special representative of the Security Service was assigned to the Crimea, and we know the name of the organization of the illegal elections in the Crimea. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this perverse practice has once again demonstrated that the President is leading the electoral falsification structure today, and the main task is, of course, to prevent honest and dignified elections. I believe that we must take a decision today on the National Security Council. The point is that these “love friends” must have the right and continue to rob the country, and the State must stand “on the shuere” is the model offered by Yushchenko as a result of the elections. What do we suggest, Communists? We believe that the time has come to speak frankly today and to make a decision to eliminate the incubator of authoritarian leaders, and we must decide on the abolition of the institution of the Presidency. This is not only the Company's wish, but our proposal has supported more than five million voters. This is already the will of the people of Ukraine. Furthermore, we propose to strengthen the authority of local self-government through the elimination of heads of district and district administrations and allegations of execution. We propose to eliminate the inviolability of the President, the people's deputies and the judges. We propose to resolve the issue of benefits as well, and we suggest that the people's deputies work after the adoption of the oath, that is to say, to join the people's deputies where they worked before the election and receive salaries in the same register as those who elected them. We propose to establish popular control, which, on the basis of law on behalf of voters and social organizations, parties, trade unions will monitor the implementation of promises, including those made prior to the elections, and this is the people's control that must be right to go to trial and criminalize those who have deceived voters. We propose today to wage a decisive fight against corruption by direct judicial reform, which should begin with the election of judges by the people, and this is precisely the main task of today's struggle for the judiciary to work for the law. Thus, the Company's faction proposes that we eliminate the excess connections of power that we have already discussed and save a billion grivens for our people. I would just like to say to the voters: The Kuchma in 2004 cost the people 524 million grevens, and this year Yushchenko will or will cost us 860 million grivens. Therefore, we propose to eliminate this institution of power, to establish the equal responsibility of all officials before the law and to establish the strictest control over all authorities and all officials through popular control by our constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u12	Thank you. The MPs signed up for the performance. Baranowski, please. After him, he's a chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u13	The Socialist faction of Alexander Baranowski. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, distinguished members of the government, distinguished press, present, distinguished voters! I was forced to go to the rostrum by events that are now unfolding in connection with early, nonconstitutional elections to the Supreme Council scheduled for September 30, this year. The fact is that different political powers have started to use as their fiche, but above all, they are opposition to their activities in support of children of war. I am the head of the All-Ukrainian Society for the Protection of Children of War, and I would like to state from this rostrum that neither the BUT faction nor the "Our Ukraine" faction has anything to do with the law that was passed in support of children of war, and more so with the introduction of aids that are already granted to children of war in part this year, in 2007. For days on television, they showed the address of the director of the Yulia Timoshenko Faction, which is handed over to colleagues in places that claim to be the BUT faction, and especially Timoshenko is the author of this law, when this law was written by the Socialist Party, which I am the author of, Alexander Baranowski and Mikola Rudzkowski, and that is well known to all. But the bigger the lie, according to Goebbels, the more she hopes people will believe it. Then I ask, why didn't these two factions vote twice for this law? But he was difficult to accept from the third demand. I'm asking why last year, when we took the budget, when we were allocating money to fund the children of war law, why didn't the BUT faction give a vote, why didn't the faction "our Ukraine" give a vote? And today, in an effort to involve the voices of children of war, a generation of children of war, they shed crocodile tears as they love this category of our population. Today I have a postcard that is issued by BUT, by the way, without any output that is a violation of the law, and that there is now a basis for removing them from the election races, where they write, how they love children of war, and what they have done for children of war. That's what we have to do before: don't give anything, freeze the law on children of war in 2005 and 2006, and today say they've done something about this category. So today I am addressing the entire generation of children of war, regardless of your political orientation, vote in favour of those who have passed laws today and who voted in favour of this law. Neither the BUT faction nor “Our Ukraine” as opposed to the children of war. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u14	I'm asking the MPs not to conduct direct agitation during the Supreme Council meeting, but to touch the essentials of the state's life first and foremost. Kurenya, deputy of the militia block, Timoshenko, please. Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich, please. He is replaced by Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich, after which Popescu gives the word Herman and asks that she unite her right and his right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u15	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, President Yushchenko will go into history with two facts, his name was used as a symbol of the orange revolution and his authority is used to comfort the meaning of what is called the orange revolution. Yushchenko came to power thanks to legal procedures and court decisions, but now he has virtually destroyed the judicial branch of power by single-handedly appointing and releasing the judges. In 2005, Yushchenko resigned some 18,000 government officials of all levels, as was said, to combat corruption. But as a result, bribes have grown only many times. Yushchenko called his main achievement freedom of speech. It was the only undeniable achievement of Ukrainian society that could not be disputed. But what do we see now? This is the main achievement of Yushchenko’s field with all its efforts to destroy. Journalist “New Channel” was released from work only for a professional and correct story about the daughter of Yushchenk at the request of the Secretary of the President. A new scandal broke out for days. The President's secretariat demanded the release of a journalist “5 channel” through the story of September 1st and the cost of teaching children “the strong world of this”. Earlier, the President’s Secretariat had demanded that all television channels should be placed free of charge for the sake of his political power. Under the pressure of the television channels, they were forced to make purchases, realizing that they were in violation of the Advertising Law. Interestingly, if journalists of the “New Channel”, the “Fifth Channel”, could imagine other media in November 2004, how will the Honorary Head of the “Our Ukraine” Party against journalists act cynically and unforgivably? Would they go hungry? Would you write protest letters? Because it was the support of journalists that started the protest movement in favor of Yushchenka in the country. The election ended with Victor Yushchenk’s mask as a democratic and European politician. The numerous violations of the Constitution and laws, the nearness of the Carpathian smugglers and mobsters, the corruption scandals, the personal involvement in the affair with RosUkre Energo, the use of administrative resources against the judicial system, journalists, the media -- this is the price at which he exchanged the trust of millions of Ukrainians, Victor Andryovich. And the obvious result is that the Yushchenka party in the election can only count on administrative resources and falsification. And the subject of Yuschenk's responsibility for anti.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u16	Give me five seconds to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u17	And the subject of Yashchenka's responsibility for the anti-constitutional coup is more relevant than ever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u18	I've been announcing Kurenno, and he hasn't heard. That's why I'm, he's asking me to give the word to Pupkov, and then I'll take the word of Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, the classic says: “Scaredness is a sister of talent”. Parliament will enter Ukraine's history as the most talented parliament because of its briefness. I'll be brief too. It's a crisis in the country, but it's an elite crisis, not a social crisis. We're going through a period of post-coochism. The distribution of power continues, and so does the money. And that's the problem. But society is healthier than its elite. The division between orange and blue and white becomes anachronism. We're pushing society again the other day. Today, it is necessary not to tear the country apart, but to unite it, to bring together political figures who would consolidate society rather than inflict selective wounds on it cruelly, shamelessly and prematurely. I represent the Free Democrats party. We are in a difficult situation, we have not joined the coalition, we have been excluded from the BUT faction because we have had the courage to disagree, to argue, to have an opinion, not to become a newsstand. We are not in power, we are not in opposition from BUTtoba, we are not in the presence of the President, who is, indeed, engaged in personal self-defence with self-defence today. We are realists and we value our strength. We are ready for the role of true opposition and, as this does not sound pofous, not only for the role of the opposition but also for the life of the opposition. And finally. Unfortunately, we have a very difficult time ahead of us, but I believe that there will be real democracy in Ukraine, there will be real opposition, and the main thing in Ukraine will be real Ukraine, not butaphoria. I'm using our President's vocabulary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u20	Thank you. Hannah Hermann has the word and Popescu gives her her right. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u21	Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies! I do not know what position Ukraine will take today’s convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the new history, but I am convinced that when analysts speak of us at one time, they will certainly use the designations they have fought with dignity for Ukrainian parliamentaryism. And whoever comes to our place, who doesn't form a parliamentary majority in the next Parliament, they'll never be able to deny that you and I have not stood up for our privileges here and not for our own integrity, we have defended the interests of the people. Today, Ukrainian society will be able to make sure that all this orange hysteria with the seemingly unwillingness of the ruling coalition to vote for inviolability was just a sublime provocation, because whoever, as we are willing to compare their rights to the rights of all citizens today, could join us, at least to demonstrate to people today that we are ready to give up all the benefits and deputation. Yet you can see that the orange and warm fighters for social justice are not in this room because they have already hanged Ukraine as a Christmas tree, with their electoral shields, paying big money for it. But not only that, it's important that people know that an attempt is being made to minimize Parliament's power of attorney so as to maximize the power of the President. I still understand that if there was a strong president in Ukraine, is Victor Yushchenko a politician capable of uniting Ukraine? Look what he's doing around here. Ukraine is moving in the direction of unbiasedness, because the adventure with the early elections was designed as a way to weaken our state. Unrestricted powers want to pass on to the President as a person who can turn Ukraine into a weak statistician, not a single player on an international geopolitical stage, because powerful presidents don't hit politicians in their country because strong presidents don't threaten one part of Ukraine just because this part of Ukraine doesn't have a tradition of wearing embroidery. Unlike his friend Michael Saakashvili, who is trying to look like King David the builder, our President does not care about the gathering of Ukraine, and if so goes on, Ukraine will have the chance to get not even a king, and not even a queen with a bunch of fights in times of sadness, but a concubine with ambition to be called a Cossack elder. History knew the events when revolution-fed emperors pushed Parliament apart. But where will one in Ukraine turn our nation into at least one country with which Europe and the world can count? That's a rhetorical question. But we're with you. we are with you, who is called the “Ukrainen Parliament”. And today I am proud to be in that room with you in Parliament, where Ukrainian independence began. I am proud to be able to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council, where our state was formed, and I know that the false slogan of the “superintendent betrayal” that their polytechnologists have forged will not be enjoyed in the people. The Ukrainian Parliament has been and will be the seat of democracy in Ukraine. Today, from this high rostrum, we reiterate that the deputies of the Ukrainian Parliament have been and remain with the people. Any privileges for them will now be abolished. We cancel all privileges for the President and his many services today because. Because the laws are created here, in this high representation that the people choose, because Ukraine will not be transformed into an area where the law can be replaced by an edict, because the historical choice was made not today and not yesterday, and not by officials with banks. From the Bank and not those with the “heart of Bonour”, the choice was made by the people. In the Holy Scriptures, the Lord speaks to the apostle Peter and says: “Be refreshed, for in Jerusalem you have borne witness about me, so you must also bear witness in Rome.” Let us be encouraging, national deputies, and bear witness to the truth and the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u22	Thank you. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich has the floor. He conveys the word to Vasil Alexiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u23	Dear fellow countrymen, first of all, a few words about yesterday's address of the President of Ukraine to the people. It is very unconvincing to ask the President of the country, whose trust in society is less than 15 percent. And it is very sad that the person who came to power on the basis of the struggle, as his supporters thought, against the dictatorial powers of the previous President, on the second day forgot about it and began a fierce struggle for unlimited power for the President and his "loving friends". You, Mr. Yushchenko, are afraid of today's meeting of the Supreme Council, because you know very well that until they take an oath to deputy the Sixth Call, the acting Supreme Council of Ukraine is legitimate. And that's why you didn't allow the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to rule on decrees to suspend the powers of the current Supreme Council, because you know that there is no legal basis for the dissolution of Parliament. They could have appeared if we had not opened the next session today. But we, unlike you, Mr. President, are responsible civil servants, and we know that the country cannot live without the State Budget, whose 2008 project is to be introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers to the Supreme Council no later than September 15th. Moreover, we do not reject, but we support the initiative that the law is one for all. Recently at the press conference you held, you admitted that the country was at the border of civil conflict. And if, God forbid, he started, it would be you, the President, who should be responsible by law, if he was for all of us, not to hide behind the Presidential inviolability. And we're also set to cancel the benefits to the national MPs, and we're ready to do it today, not to fool the people that you're going to do it tomorrow when you're elected to the Supreme Council as well. I would also like to explain why the faction of the Party of the Regions did not support the vote of the Timoshenko, Turkinov project, because we then introduced our bill, which unfortunately failed to pass the procedure. And we didn't vote, and we couldn't vote in favour of the political shulers project, which, two years ago, were the authors of the law on benefits to MPs, and when it became politically appropriate, they were asking questions about their abolition. To those who have forgotten, I would like to remind you that it was Mr. Turkinov who was the author of the law on the free allocation to housing deputies, or the monetary compensation for the acquisition of housing. And Deputy Kulczynski of "Our Ukraine" is the author of the pension benefits of the National Deputies. I would like to remind you that the law on the benefits of the people's deputies was personally voted by Timoshenko, members of her faction, as were members of the faction "Our Ukraine". I want the citizens of Ukraine to know about this and to draw their own conclusions. And I'm going to say, "Dear fellow countrymen, you won't be able to live properly with your children and treat your parents until you believe those who chose you yesterday, speculating on the gas they took in Russia.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u24	Let me finish, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u25	Speculating on a gas that was taken 19 dollars in Russia and sold to you, we were sold for $94. Today, this “white brotherhood ” makes it appear to be hurting for the people. That is why, Mr President, if you sincerely want to undo the benefits and the intrusiveness, I suggest you do as you did at the time, when you had to adopt the law, the amendments to the Elections Act. Stop your command today and let the opposition you are leading come to the hall, as it was then, and vote with us on the cancellation of the benefits and the inviolability. You have no reason to reject this offer. And if you don't support it, the Ukrainians will realize that you're repeatedly teasing and insulting them. So when I finish my speech, I want to address you, Victor Andryovich, with the words that you said in your address yesterday: “Do not abuse the patience of the people! ” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the exercise of the right to speak, statements, proposals and so forth. They all focus on the need to consider the questions that are offered to you on the one hand. On the other hand, MPs have commented on the political situation surrounding the elections. You can understand them, even though I didn't in vain ask them not to use time to conduct some kind of direct political agitation, it was rather an assessment of what was happening in the state today. It's too bad the campaign's going pretty dirty and one of the proofs is that I just got a handover from Mikola Illich Sadowy. Our newspaper, Plus, which seems to come out of the SDPU, which I doubt is the original of the newspaper, is probably a fake, but nevertheless. But this is kind of my address to the President, which says, "I am addressing you as a true patriot capable of rejecting any personal ambitions for Ukraine's sake." First of all, I would never insult the President with such compliments, and that's why I didn't address him like that. Or: “to ask you for an urgent personal meeting behind closed doors.” I've always asked the President to hold open dialogues in the presence of journalists, other representatives and media space and so forth, never once did the President go to the meeting after the discussion, you know, the Universal has been talking about round tables all along and they've never really been there. Or at the end of my approach to you, if I continue to work in Parliament on the fifth call and continuation of my speakership, I promise to fully support your initiatives, to hold the All-U.S. referendum on constitutional reform, to remove parliamentary integrity, and so on. I think the absurdity of this appeal is so obvious that there is no need to continue to comment. We're going to look in the right order at this fake, but I'd like you to know that it's a routine that's used by those who have nothing to say to people in fact. And obviously that'll be enough. Take into account your statements, referrals, proposals while we are in the agenda of the day, the question that I have already announced about the order of the day of the fourth session here is the draft ruling it is handed down to you and it consists, in fact, in two paragraphs, of order of the day to approve and establish that the bills are prepared for consideration and in accordance with the prospective legislative plan of the Supreme Council's Fifth Call, approved by the Supreme Council Order of 30 November, do not require any further vote on their inclusion in the agenda of the day session. [[it's added]] I would like to be guided by a tradition that we have applied all the previous times so that we do not take the decision now, but allow the committees and factions, especially the factions, to process this document separately and then at the next plenary meeting to approve this draft regulation, this regulation. Is there no objection? Then I don't put this document to the vote. Regarding changes to the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. Yesterday, at the Conciliation Council of Deputies, we decided to amend the Order on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Fifth Council. There have been proposals by faction leaders for holding, until September 30, plenary sessions of the Supreme Council solely to address pressing socio-economic and political issues, such as the 2008 State Budget. And basically focus on work on committees and factions and work in the districts. What if you don't object to such an offer? Is there no objection? Then I will put her to the vote as a decision of the Supreme Council. Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. [[11:01:57]] For 264 Decision taken. About the schedule of meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for September 4th, today, you have this document distributed here, yesterday it was discussed on the Conciliation Council, it has not changed anything. This is about the two issues that we have already considered and also about amending the Constitution to eliminate the inviolability of MPs, and of the President, and of judges. Draft Law amending the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies on the Cancellation of Benefits or So-called Benefits and Privileges. And about the Supreme Council's statement on the legislative regulation of the terms and procedures for the purchase of goods, jobs and services. I'm putting this project to a vote for approval. Please, who is in charge of this order of the day today, please vote. [[11:03:11]] For 261 Decision taken. Statements were made from the leaders of the factions of the Party of the Regions and the Socialist Party on the announcement of a recess after consideration of the matter. In fact, there is obviously a need to consult on the voting of the following documents, and although they are prepared by factions and the Conciliation Council, nevertheless, I support this proposal, and I announce a recess until 11:30. By 11:35, please don't be late. Now get up on the third floor, faction leaders.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, please come to the hall. Announce it. The faction leaders’ meeting ended. They were determined as to how the issues involved in the order of the day were dealt with. And as long as the technical side of things is done there, they're going to hand over some of the solutions to one of the questions, so let's look at them in this sequence. First, the draft law amending the Law on the Status of Deputies, which touches the withdrawal of the benefits, then we will consider the application for the purchase of goods and services at a budgetary cost. Then we will consider making changes to the Constitution in part of the inviolability of individual officials. And in this order, when I look at this issue, I propose first a draft law to amend the Act on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine. [[on the cancellation of benefits and privileges]] This document was requested by representatives, more loyally, by the representatives of the faction Vasil Kiselov, John Boki and Valerius Matthew. To whom do you entrust? I announced acid's first. Who's allowed to do that? Acid's report is supposed to do, right? Vasil Alexiyovich, are you making a report on this issue on the amendment of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy? Please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u28	Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! The great resonance in society over the unwarranted public budget expenditure to ensure the work of the people’s deputies violates our first priority in solving the problem. Recognizing that the status of a national MP provides for a number of specific requirements that have been reflected in legislation, and the norms governing social relations in these areas take into account the specific conditions of work associated with the permanent public nature of the lives of such persons, the constitutional requirements for their status, professionalism in decisions, the professional and other qualities of people who have gained confidence in society and have become national deputies, we are confident that the reduction of expenses for the maintenance of national MPs is basically a public mechanism for expressing respect for society and our electorate. With a view to ensuring the implementation of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens guaranteed by articles 21, 24 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council stipulates: Make the following changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Peoples’ Deputies. Chapters 4, 5 two -- and I want you to know what this is about -- it's about guaranteeing the labour rights of the Ukrainian National Deputy for the exercise of their parliamentary powers and after their termination. This is also about the appointment of a deputy after the end of the term of office. We suggest, and most agree with the need to cancel the material aid that was imposed in this law, 50 percent of the salary of the national MP. It is also suggested that the standard be revoked when the deputy on leave received a double, double, salary. It is also proposed to cancel the benefits to deputies in respect of pension insurance and to compare them to the Pension Insurance Act, as is the case with all Ukrainian citizens. The benefits of providing free travel to deputies after retirement should also be abolished. Then it's proposed to cancel. In the event of an early retirement, the national MP has the right to receive financial assistance three times his monthly salary on the day of the end of the parliamentary mandate. This is for chapter four. Chapter five also proposes to abolish the rights of a national transport agent. We and myself have never flown in a business class and I don't think anyone will deny it when we cancel the free transport security of the deputies, and the deputies will travel to the county after a shipping permit signed by the Chief of the Supreme Council. It is also suggested that the free passage of luggage, free parking, be excluded. I am convinced that this has never been used by the MPs, and these standards must be ruled out so that there is not even talk about them. It is further suggested that article 27, which refers to the inviolability of the national MP, be repealed. It is suggested that part eight of article 28 be abolished, which refers to the costs associated with the organization and meetings of national MPs with voters and reports of naphthas, and that they be carried out at the expense of budgetary assignments and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council. It is also suggested that article 30 be repealed as regards the national insurance policy of the Ukrainian national deputy. It is also proposed that article 31 be repealed: “Ensure the National MP of Ukraine conditions to increase professional level”, article 32: “Financing expenses related to parliamentary activity”. This includes the salary to be set up by the Cabinet of Ministers. And it was probably incorrect to note that MPs set their own wages. Also in the article 31: “Financial and medical welfare of nardep”, it is proposed to cancel. And Articles 35 and 38. Article 35: “Encouragement of Ukrainian national deputies with living quarters. Money compensation, written here, is paid once. Similarly, it is suggested that the benefits of financial compensation and the provision of free housing be abolished. And I conclude my report by stating that by law, article 28: “The responsibility for breaching the guarantees regarding the provision of the activities of the national deputy is also proposed to withdraw this article. So, in addition, I would like you to focus on what is proposed for less talk, in part 1 of article 34, replace the words “up to 31 assistant consultants” with the words “up to 10 assistant consultants” so that there is less talk in the people. So in part 3, paragraph 3, the word “four” replaces “two” consultants who work on a permanent basis. And the end of the line. This law--I'm asking for everyone's attention! – I'll read it all over this paragraph. “This law takes effect from the day it was published. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in a three-month period from the date of entry into force of this law: First. Decisions should be taken on the establishment of a single authority for the administration of public property and the approval of the list of facilities required to ensure the activities of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and other authorities of the State. The other one. Inventory of medical, medical and preventive facilities, sanatoriums, boarding houses, rest facilities that provide for the activities of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and other authorities of the State, which results in a decision on their transfer to the Ministry of Health for general use by appointment.” And the last. “Review the conditions of work of the material and transport and other means of providing management and government authorities, take steps to organise them, optimize the use of service vehicles and aircraft to ensure the performance of the tasks assigned to the relevant public authorities.” These are all the suggestions that are proposed for consideration. The report is complete. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Questions to Vasil Alexiovich. Please sign up. Before they are recorded, I would like to point out that Vasil Alexiyovich has read several rules that Parliament has never used, such as the establishment of wages for deputies and so forth, worked on the rules of the general law, which These functions take away the Cabinet of Ministers. And, as I recall, since 1992, Parliament has never returned to the question of paying MPs. It's been 15 years. Questions, please. Pomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u30	Ponomarenko, faction of the Compartia of Ukraine. Vasily Alexievich, I think we're watering the baby. See article 20. We rule out that the hour of work of the People's Deputy of the Supreme Council, which has been written down, is part of the general course of work. This is where we turn it off. Thus, two recruitments are performed by the People's Deputy, and this is not taken into account in the general course of his work. I think that's something to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u31	There is a Pension Insurance Act. It's all accounted for. Don't be afraid we're doing something wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u32	Stásov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u33	Please tell me to cancel, reduce the number of people’s deputies to ten. How can a national MP who should engage in activities throughout Ukraine be with ten helpers? It's on public policy. I think it's a completely undervalued offer: to reduce the number of helpers to ten. And such a small comment. We probably don't have to rely on them not to say anything. Every offer should have common sense. Similarly, there should be common sense in the proposal to remove intactness. A few months ago, I brought from prison a young person who had spent eight and a half years in prison for another person’s murder, and a year and a half knew he wasn’t guilty. He didn't know the way out of the situation. It is the parliamentary integrity that gives us the ability and the ability to exercise our parliamentary powers. So I think we need to take a look at your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u34	As for your first question, I want to remind you that we are all chosen, not by majority, but by a party principle. When there was a majority principle, yes, for a deputy to work, he had to have a number of helpers. Today, when you go through a party, you have quite a lot of colleagues who can help you to perform your parliamentary duties in an absolutely calm manner. And you don't need that number of helpers. As far as integrity is concerned, the question is, frankly, the question is. So you and I, when we look at the issue of undoing the inviolability as a change to the Constitution of Ukraine, you'll realize that we're also trying to take into account what you said. Because in this country everything could be, tomorrow they could throw something up and provoke it. Who, though, is insured today by private citizens? I.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u35	Please try to answer in one minute. The chairman asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u36	Dear reporter, all your suggestions, they're basically within the limits of the law, except for one thing. One refers to interference with the Constitution. And that's what my last colleague, Love Stasov, said. Intervention into the Constitution, I think you know the hierarchy of norms. Perhaps we should first address the issue of constitutional law and then propose to remove it from the simple law. Because a simple removal doesn't give anything, there's a constitutional rule left, so maybe we should go anyway. not to put a car in front of a horse, but to consider the essence of the status of the immunity and immunity of the deputy as part of the constitutional changes, and then to propose in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u37	I absolutely agree with you and ask Alexander Alexandrovich to be able to discuss this issue, but not to vote. Then discuss, vote on, and then vote on the issue. Sergei Petrovich is right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u38	All right, we're gonna do it, just keep in mind, Jaroslav. ‘ Sergei Petrovich spoke of another. You can write that down, while it's already in force, like an adopted law. It's a slightly different sequence, which is to remove the rule that interferes with the Constitution. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u39	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Ukraine’s Regions Dear Vassil Alexiyovich, I'd like to address the deputies of the fourth call. In April 2006, we changed the Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, what we now have to cancel, for the only purpose, because after the orange political repression that fell on the heads of the Ukrainian people's deputies, the civil servants, we were looking for a way out, how to protect our people from everything that fell on them and that we are now being prepared by new, sort of, winners. That's why I want to ask you: now 16 laws in Ukraine regulate the size of pensions: the Customs Service Act -- separately, the State Service -- separately, veterinary medicine -- separately, and the status of the Ukrainian National Deputy. We just take our pension insurance off, we transfer it somewhere else, or do we do it in a complex, bring it all to the same denominator? Only a law on compulsory government pension insurance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u40	We suggest that we do this only with regard to the national MPs. Make suggestions in the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u41	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u42	National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Well, first of all, I'm going to say that our faction is going to vote in favour of this bill, just like it did in October, when this issue has already been discussed, because it's in principle for us. But I think we need to look at some more articles so that we and the water don’t get the baby out. Well, for example, article 35, it is suggested that it be completely excluded, but where will the national deputies then live? You probably have to write down either the service room or the hotel space, because if the article is completely excluded, it provides for both the service home and the apartment, and so on, and so on, and left nothing behind, then it's not clear where this national deputy is going to live.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u43	That's an absolutely correct question. He'll probably have to be clarified. And the hotel probably needs deputies to be provided. But I want to give you one piece of help, dear colleagues. The hotel’s people’s MP is 150,000 dollars per year. And compensation to the people's deputies for a one-room or two-room apartment, even about 300,000 bracelets, you see, arithmetic is very simple. In five years, 600,000 per hotel and his apartment. So I propose to support Alexander Alexandrovich, who offered to create a town for the deputies, to come as a deputy, to serve for five years, to give up his residence, and to go home. And that's the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u44	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u45	Thank you, Stepan Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I am convinced that the Socialists are voting in favour of this bill, although I would like to point out that we do not, after all, resemble a "young drummer" when we are looking at such serious problems. Because let's say there are valid and correct things in the law. Consider, for example, the fifth paragraph of article 33 in days in which a national MP does not exercise his or her parliamentary powers for good reason, provided for by law for a committee with jurisdiction over questions of parliamentary ethics, and the national deputies are not paid for the exercise of parliamentary powers. And there are other things. The so-called opposition ignored this norm and got paid, but we shouldn't leave this norm, we have to leave this standard unchanged because that's what we need.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u46	Thank you, I fully agree with you, Mr. Stepanovich, and ask your colleague and you, Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u47	Okay. Savocin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u48	Dear National Deputies! Savocin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I think, first of all, we need to go back to the problem of assistant counsellors of the People's Deputies. Here I heard an explanation by the reporter, in my opinion, 31 assistant counsellor of the National MP is not a very large figure because those people are working on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u49	Public policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u50	It's on public grounds. And these are the people who are authorized representatives in each area, the area behind which the national deputy is established. And then I think we should leave that number. And one more thing we're looking at today is parliamentary immunity, that's understandable. But the time has come to consider, perhaps, the touchiness of the President of Ukraine, because today the President is in our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u51	I'm asking for the integrity and maintenance of the President, that's different things. And what it costs more is true, says Hennadi Savosin, but it's a slightly different norm of another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u52	Thank you for asking. What I'm trying to say is that my argument about assistant counsellors of the National MP is that I would like you to agree with her. And once again, I want to say that we're not used to working in a completely different mode today, because we've come not to the majority district, but to the party list. And when the whole party is working, putting up a deputy, and supporting it, you can organize a job so that the party will support the MP in its work in the district. As for the inviolability and cancellation of the benefits of the President of Ukraine, you are absolutely right to ask. If the law is for all of us, the President must likewise be deprived of the inviolability and benefits that he uses today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u53	Yes, the questions are complete and the answers are answered, please sit down. Who would like to comment on the content of this law, please write down from factions first, then in individual order. So, Popescu from the Party of Regions, so I understand is that in an individual order? Then Stasov comes from the “Timoshenko Block”, I understand. Please, Stasov, you can go to the rostrum. Do you want to tell someone? Turn on the Stas microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the Party of Free Democrats. I strongly object to the removal of parliamentary immunity, which is actually what I've been giving you. And in general, I think that today's bill that we're preparing, we, the national electorate, should not, today, please the general politicians, please individuals who are just doing populism today to adopt bills in a hurry. Here many comments were made on the fact that a great deal of things do not satisfy national MPs, and tomorrow they will harm our electorate. We're counting on national MPs to be completely self-sufficient people, working people. We, each of us, would like to embrace the whole of Ukraine with our activities, and as far as this is concerned, 25 or 31 helpers are absolutely appropriate and proper for the working, active national deputy, as well as many other comments that have been made today, and even those that have not yet been said need further work. I'm sure we need to review this bill again, but you know, false democracy, false freedom of speech can only harm Ukraine. And so I propose to postpone the consideration of this bill today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u55	Thank you. Chechetov has the word. Behind him is Mandus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u56	Mikhail Chechetov, faction of Party regions. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Respectable voters, radios! You know, we want to live by Western standards, but unfortunately, the policies of the highest echelons of power do not manifest the principles of democracy that are inherent in Western countries. I'll give you an example. The United States of America is the Presidential State, the Presidential Government. In the United States, perhaps even in the most insane head, there will be no foolish idea that there may be some thirty minutes or five minutes in America when there is no Parliament or Congress. Every American knows that there is a Parliament, there is a State, there is no Parliament, there is no State. Unfortunately, we have some of the highest political elite, including the President, who profess another ideology, which, if there is a President, then there may be a State, if there is no Parliament, the State will be. With that ideology, we certainly won't have a state. Now, here's to a specific subject. You know, it hasn't been possible to turn on either TV or radio lately. You turn on the TV, you turn on the radio, it's already happened that you turn on the bricks in the morning -- and then again, President, Kirilenko, Timoshenko, Lucenko -- let's take our privileges off, let's make sure we're inviolable, and so on. I'm tired of everyone. The leader of the Party of the Regions, the Prime Minister, proposed that, he said, let's gather together in the hall with one mach, one which was said to push the button to eliminate the integrity of the President, the MP, eliminate the benefits of the President, his services, the people's deputies. Let's go to the hall. The coalition supported us, we're in the hall today. The question is, Where does the crowd who used to talk about the need to come back have to cancel the benefits? Where? Yesterday, they were painted on screens in the fives of our Ukraine. Talk about it, how did it get there, so what? The cat's thin? I want the voters to know. Here's the position of double standards. To say the same, and to break up with their benefits neither the President nor the opposition. That is why, I think, today we will take this decision, make it to the Constitutional Court for signature, and then we will look at it further. Because posters were strung all over the country with orange-brown posters written "Our Self-Defense" and written, and "Our Ukraine" and drilled. This comes up on our proposal to abolish the benefits, they have scattered the blows all over the country, pushed the people from Our Ukraine and from the self-defence to the offer to eliminate the benefits. Let's see if we can make up our minds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u57	Mikhail Vasilovich, I'm making a note of the language regime. Speaking in Russian is not a duo, but a “figa ” in Russian. Please. I think he's the Head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u58	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. I am comfortable with this question because the faction of the Socialist Party has always had a consolidated position, and it has acted in contrast with the parliamentary benefits, and the restrictions on immunity in line with European standards. That's more than that. When such a conversation has taken place, I believe that each person should act to the extent of his morality in a situation where he has benefits, but at the same time he decides whether to use them or not. And once again, I want to point out that I wasn't in charge of sanatorium management, in the fourth administration, I'm not using the transportation tools of the Supreme Council, I'm not resting in the sanatoriums of the Supreme Council, because I think that as every person who appeals to people, appealing to them should first come out of a certain moral comfort. I have a question. What I am taught by the morals of the representative of BUTU and “Our Ukraine”, who with both hands were concerned about what they foresaw in their own legislation. Mr. Klukkowski, who received an apartment in the Supreme Council on the third call, and then compensation in the Supreme Council on the fourth call. Mr. Sass is a great lawyer and expert on the Rules, who received a similar residence in the Supreme Council of the Third Call, and in the Supreme Council of the Fourth Call, compensation. Mr. Lucenko, mentioned here. So I think that everyone in these situations needs to act to the extent of their general culture and morality, and our faction, I repeat, supports the distinction between all parliamentary benefits and privileges. But at the same time, I would like to point out that, of course, the President's initiative and his strength with regard to the parliamentary integrity of pure water is populism. The entire pre-election campaign in an early election affair was built on this populist slogan. And they are now facing a very big dilemma: Parliament is voting these positions, and with what then do we go to people, how do we continue to poke the head of an average citizen? We are consistent supporters of limiting parliamentary immunity, presidential immunity, and judicial immunity in accordance with European standards. And this issue will have to be resolved inevitably, because the size of the President's intrusiveness today goes beyond any limit. Who of us has not seen, for example, when he drinks a drink of vodka after meeting with veterans and then sits behind a car? Well, what an average citizen would then have to use the traffic rules if the President is a guarantor of rights and freedoms, it may not be subject to the laws that are in force in the state. And this is a small example, but their list can be continued. So we vote and then we bring it into line with European tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u59	Chief Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u60	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! I've been calling since May 1990, despite all the laws that exist for the annulment of former Soviet nomenclature privileges, because I went to the March 1990 elections on a democratic platform. Since then, I have neither taken apartments nor land! I've never been on an MP's vacation in Crimea! I have never visited a hospital or hospital in Feofania. Not once! Because I told my voters in March of the 1990s, "I am going as your representative and I am equal to you!" That's why I support ideology. What else do I support? Which literally in the first sentence cancels an article called “Guarantees of Labour Rights of the People’s Deputy”. I am. Sveslav Mikhajlovich Piskun knows that in court, when he was released by Yashchenko, he proved that neither the President nor the judge nor the Attorney General were within labour law. They don't get to work. Lawyers know that there is a difference between public law and private law. [[Literacy Lawyers, Not Presidential Lawyers]] Labour law and labour rights are private law, employment contracts. We're officers. Judges are officers. That's why there can't be any labour rights guarantees here, there are. There's got to be a job, a job reward, not a salary and everything. And that's why I would suggest, Alexander Alexanderovich, in preparing this for the second reading, to involve Minust, because when I was there, we were working on this concept in the Sandstone case. It is a public institution of power, office and office, and judges alike. This needs to be developed and brought into line with European standards again. And the minute is the touchiness, I may be stalling, but there's the conclusion of the 2001 Venice Commission, it's a post-cum referendum, and there was it all: both polls and decisions, and so on. The Venice Commission said that it is concerned that in a country such as Ukraine, which has no tradition of permanent and strong democracy, it is a hoax, especially when the Attorney General's Office has not been reformed, and especially then not even Kuchma has attacked the prosecutor's office, nor has he taken a storm, but only Tushko has not been able to make this coup, what are guaranteed from searches? I went through a search in Borispol, and you remember the Melnicka case. Last January the militia or DAI Lucenka beat me on the asphalt and strangled me by the throat. And only I proved it in court, but I didn't show a certificate specifically to check the minister's activities, as he gave all these commands to do. But in court it was proved that it was a forged protocol. So we're protected from search, arrest, detention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u61	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u62	In this situation, attention should be paid to the conclusion of the Venice Commission. And indeed, there is no parliament without immunity in Europe, there is no institution of parliamentaryism without the MP, like a judge, being protected. But there are volumes. So we need to look at this in the complex. The amount of immunity for the MP, the amount of immunity for the judge, and especially -- we're the only country in Europe where we have the status of the President and his immunity -- is the status of a medieval absolute unlimited monarch, because it's been established for him that if he committed a crime in the office of the President, he can't be brought to criminal responsibility at all. My suggestion is that the immunity should work for all three branches of government in the complex and be considered within the framework of constitutional reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u63	Is anyone going to make a statement? Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please. An oil man. Behind him, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, I am greatly divided by what my colleague Sergey said to the head. And I'll tell you that maybe the reason is to undo the intactness, the benefits, but the reason is much deeper. On Friday, a session was held in the Cherkas District Council. And in this session, the head of the district administration, Chevko, ripped out the video camera from the radio company’s radio company “Antena-plus” just because he recorded it in a hall where the governor held a meeting with his subordinates, heads of the district administrations, and gave direct instructions: to destroy the session because at this session the deputies intended to set up an investigation commission to investigate the fact that the funds were being stolen from the state programme “Golden Underwear”. The Governor has virtually no immunity from immunity, but the head of the government, Chervko, is the godfather of the President and he tells everyone. And I went to the D.A.'s office, and I took a session demanding that both the video and the video camera be returned to the journalist. And this fact is recorded by another video camera, and it's already published in Chercas. So, please tell me, is there only a reason for immunity? It is likely that the deeper the cause, the more he has the money, will be redeemed in the courts. Who today is the godfather of the President must have immunity, which is better called in Russian: "untouchable". You can't touch them because the D.A. is silent, the head of the D.A. is silent, the Security Service isn't responding. Because everyone today is afraid of this power. We've been fighting democracy in the Qukmu language, today we've fallen for democracy in the Kumovo language. And so the reasons here are deeper and deeper. I'm sure we need to reform both the power structures and the judicial system, because we're not going to solve the matter by the very distinction between inviolability. And I demand from this rostrum, Victor Andryovich, if you so declare that your achievement is democracy, this is freedom, then please somehow influence your best man so that he doesn't commit crime there to stop taking property, and in fact this is a robbery. For there must be such a saying: Godfather, and from above fall. That will be the final sign of democracy if the President, first of all, acts with his subjects as he does with ordinary citizens today. And I think we're going to make this decision here, but let the President show his will and sign it, and he'll have to deal with his best men.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u65	Vladimir Mikolaiovich, you know very well that best man is not affected by best man. The best man is affected by the best man. So please draw conclusions from your suggestions. Please, Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u66	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We're looking at two problems today. One problem is the benefits of national MPs, presidential benefits, other branches of government, and the other is the problem of inviolability. Of course, the problem of intrusiveness cannot be solved without constitutional changes. But we should consider it today and accept the documents, to an extreme extent, in the first reading. As for the benefits, we need to finally resolve these issues so that there is no speculation about it. I'm reminding you that it takes 1 billion dollars a year to keep the President of our country. A billion dollars is 20 times more than the costs associated with the previous President Leonid Kuchma. There are 20 times as many today. That's much more than keeping all the MPs, the national MPs. These are the numbers. And when we compare the benefits and talk about them, the voters, the entire Ukrainian people, they need to know what the costs are for whom. As far as the faction of the Social Party is concerned, we are in favour of removing all the privileges of the people's deputies, of the President, of the judges, and of the other responsible employees who use them. I suggest we create a special committee of deputies and analyze the phenomenon that has already been discussed today when someone gets an apartment or two gets an apartment and compensation for money, and hear it at a separate meeting of the Supreme Council so that it can be talked about not just one or two persons of the MPs, but about everyone, including the Presidential Council, and about others who abuse the phenomenon. And I also remind all the voters that we are in this room not the first time we are considering this issue, but we are looking at the third time, and we have not voted in favour of the opposite of the benefits, for the removal of the immunity of the MPs, who are not in the room today, is the Faction of BUTU and our Ukraine. But all over the country, there are signatures to remove the intactness. They will not come today, they will not come, of course, and tomorrow, if the elections are held early, and they will probably not have the proper operational meaning, they will not vote for the removal of the intrusiveness, for they especially need this intrusiveness. So the faction of socialists for the benefits of taking care of and living for everyone is the same, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u67	Thank you. Popescu is Ivan Vasilovich, then Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u68	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Alexander Alexander, great colleagues! The norms of the Constitution are the rules of direct action and by fulfilling the requirements of our Basic Law, we, as responsible politicians on the first Tuesday of September, came to the opening of another session because we are supporters of the rule of law. Despite the election campaign, we came to the hall to set up a real, but declarative basis for the adoption of the State Budget, to remove unlimited integrity and the privilege not only of the people's deputies, but also of the President. For everyone to know that another term may come after a term of office, or presidential office, for violating the Constitution and laws. The agony of the orange adventure leads to further turns and action, but none of them are really going to keep their promises. If they're for taking off the touch, why aren't they in the hall today? Why they weren't there and didn't vote, so they had the opportunity in October of that year, they could vote peacefully for it, but no, they only need slogans. Dear colleagues! You know, when we come out of this rostrum, we speak on behalf of our constituents, and that's what we need immunity for. Because we're talking from this rostrum about the pain that our people are trusting us to go to. And when someone violates the law and the Constitution, no matter what position he holds, he must know that sooner or later he must sit on the bench of the defendants and get the term that actually belongs to him. We, the faction of the Party of the Regions, support this bill on the basis. But I'd like to offer you one more. Since there have been various examples here, I would like to propose such a rule that the Ukrainian National Deputies, who have voluntarily drawn up their mandates and have not chosen to serve the people of Ukraine, who have given them a mandate, but have exercised the right to compensation for housing, health and so on, should be able to compensate the budget for these costs. I propose that we accept this as a proposal and then vote. And last of all, one moment. That week I was in the region of Cherniewec, explaining the question of where the money was divided into gas, why they wouldn't let it go. And in the office of the head of state administration, Mr. Keesin, I saw the orange flag "Yes Yushchenko" and so on. I asked him: is this your own office, or is this the office of the head of administration? He said the heads of administration, but I'm not taking this flag out, because that's what the president told me, and I was with him in Maidan. Here's another example of when, in an election campaign, using an administrative resource, they spit on both the inviolability, and all the other rules have to be removed and placed before the law in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u69	Thank you. It's weak. After him, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u70	Vitaly Shibko. A socialist faction. Dear colleagues, Alexander Alexandrovich! I would like to say first that there have been reports that our session is not broadcast on television. I would therefore like to begin the discussion of this topic, which we are currently considering, by making a formal statement to the Prudnik, as to the Head of the State Committee, to explain why it has happened that only radio channels and television stations do not broadcast the session directly. I think that this is also one of the proofs of how much we must use today to give a proper and objective assessment of what is happening in the hall and what is happening in the session. Let's move on. I think I will fully support my colleagues, our faction, which says that we must remove all these immunities, remove all the benefits we have. Although I would like to remind my colleagues that we are currently discussing the topic of benefits and that there has been no communication and no report on immunity, to which I know our colleague Ivan Sidorovich Boki. And here I would like to draw your attention to what is being done on this topic if I touch on it, because today we are looking at it, it is generally understandable that pure populism, because let's listen to the main advertisers, those who speak on behalf of both the Self-Defense and the People's Ukraine, our Ukraine, will not bring back any economic themes. That is, it is either criticism of what is being done, or it is simply what is being exerted in society and says yes, to date we must refuse and not take any other steps. Of course, we should think about it, and if they come to the elections, if these elections are held, they will come to the hall, and, of course, when they are in opposition, how will they behave? They understand that this is a serious subject without economic knowledge or offer. On the other hand, when they are in opposition, they will probably make a stop, back with their proposals and immunity and their benefits. Let's do it today, let's listen to our constituents, I feel so that people are in a mood to avoid these benefits and to avoid being inviolable. Let us vote, although we can listen to what Sergey the Chief has said. He said it was through the Constitution to solve it. Okay, right, we're going through the law, but we're going to go back to the Constitution, and we're going to have some possibilities for retreating or discussing again to our opponents, who are going to say that we didn't bring this up. Let us vote in our first reading on the issues relating to the Constitution and send it to the Constitutional Court and then let it decide and at the next session, we will resolve it constitutionally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u71	Thank you. It's written down, I'm sorry, it is. Yuri Romanovich, please. He's being followed by Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u72	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. First of all, I'd like to testify to my position. It is that, indeed, the benefits and privileges enjoyed by the members of the Supreme Council as well as senior officials, as well as by the President of Ukraine, should be abolished. And that bill that our colleague proposed, I'm sure we should support it. At the same time, I would like to continue with Sergio's opinion as my colleague on the Justice Committee, where there is parliamentary immunity. Parliamentary immunity is regulated not only by the law on the status of the national MP but also by the Constitution of Ukraine. Article eighty - two provides for two conditions in which this inviolability is realized. It is freedom to speak and vote in the Supreme Council, except for insult and slander. And the second circumstance is the special order of arrest and detention of national deputies. First of all, I'm paying attention to our citizens. When he was President of Kuchma and today's opposition carried out its actions and wrote on its tents: “Ownings of the People's Deputy”, he was able to carry out actions of civil disobedience. When, in 2005, the Party of Regions, our party, suffered total persecution for the new orange power, when tens of thousands of people were dismissed from their posts when dozens of criminal cases were instituted without ground, the issue of integrity was relevant. Today, opposition does not fear political persecution. Today, they themselves recognize that there is no need for in touch. And I'm pretty sure that's what our coalition deserves. This is a credit to you, gentlemen. And I am convinced that if society and even opposition are saying that there is no danger of democracy and opposition in our country, then we should support this bill, vote it not on a basis, but in general change the Constitution of Ukraine, so that our citizens feel that the MPs are equal to every ordinary citizen of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u73	Stepan Bulba. If you want to shorten your speech. You can quote classics, but briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u74	Alexander Aleksandrovitch gave me a clue as to where to start. We ask, ‘ Why couldn’t this problem be resolved? ’ Why not vote when it was possible? Now that we're ready to consider this issue in the sessions of the Supreme Council, please come, as we did a few weeks ago, come vote and let's take this question down. But I remember the day, more faithfully, the night that Alexander Alexandrovich was elected Head of the Supreme Council and the first to come to greet him then, and so sincerely, and so convincingly said that it was a great, great credit to all of Ukraine, all of democracy and so on, it was very good for Ukraine. Was there anyone you thought? Then Minister of Internal Affairs Yuri Vitaliovich Lucenko. And looking at that face then, I couldn't help but quote Huberman. And I said, When the pain is taken to the heart, When it is heavy and breathed and breathed, Then the loathsome ones start to look. Clever. Well, clever faces passed. You understand that Lucenko was editing the speech yesterday's president. He called it, the President called some clever here. No, we are not clever because we respond to problems and needs. You want to decide them, come and decide. Let us vote in favour of this law, vote and prove to them that we are willing to deal with such issues in contrast with those who declare their solution necessary, but do not take any steps to eliminate these problems. I call on everyone, I know that socialists vote for this law, and let's take this off, and let's not let them go to people and lie again, as this very often does in a clever young drummer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u75	Thank you. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. And from the bottom of this discussion, I would like to make you this proposal. Here Sergey the Headate spoke quite correctly about the 27th article of this law. It details the constitutional requirement to ensure integrity, because such security has specific forms, specific manifestations. And if after that we're going to consider the Act of Amendments to the Constitution, and here's the other order of consideration and implementation of this issue, then this article is automatically taken out of this law, just in accordance with the rules of the Constitution. There's just no need to write it down separately. So I would ask the 27th article to remove the 27th article as a proposal for this law. And with regard to assistant deputies. There was a proposal for the Stasov MP not to take this position because it does not affect the financial security of the MPs, because it works as public servants. Mikhail Vasilovich, I'm paying attention. They're helpers who work on community principles, and they're not burdensome for the budget. Yuri Alexiyovich, please listen to what I have to say. Aunt Dmitry, Yuri Alexiyovich, please, I can't hear myself, you're having such a loud discussion. So I would ask this article not to touch article 27. In the end, vote as all speakers have suggested. And so I have a reason, if you don't mind, with these remarks on the first reading, I'm now putting this proposal to the vote. Please. [[12:55:13]] For 255 Decision taken. It was suggested that this document should finally be voted on, bearing in mind that, here, legal remedies or legal drafting in accordance with the Rules, the Legal Authority could make the amendments that we have now made. No objections? Then I put to the vote the adoption of this law as a whole. [[12:55:50]] For 261 Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 179 Socialists – 30, Block Timoshenko – 15, Communists – 21, “Our Ukraine” – 4, non-fractional – 12. A draft Law is being considered. More faithfully, the statement, as announced by the Supreme Council on the legislative regulation of conditions and procedures, purchased goods, jobs and services for state funds in Ukraine. I've got two words for this, just like on the Conciliation Board, I'll say. This is about a very important direction in the use of budgetary resources in the state. You remember how hot this topic was at the beginning of the year, how the correspondence was with the President and so forth; how he agreed that the adopted law was progressive, but it needed to be worked out; how we worked on it and so forth. But today we see an attempt to bypass the law and the government's activities and legislative activities through the President's quasi-crazy. How? Let's go to the Security Council and look at this issue, and then we'll all kind of have to agree that the President's decree and the purchases are going to be done another way. I mean, someone's going to break the law, and they're going to jail on the basis of the law. So I'd like it not to be in a state that respects itself, and where they're guided by the principle of power distribution, that's not what's done, sorry, stupid. That is why we would obviously have to make a decision that calls on the President to carry out his constitutional duty -- and not to do any violations today that would have far-reaching consequences. The content of the statement is: “In December 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act “On Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on the Procurement of Goods, Work and Services at State Costs”. This law was signed and officially promulgated by the President of Ukraine. At the same time, a letter dated January 5, 2007, addressed to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, stating, inter alia, that the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 1, 2006, aimed at improving and simplifying the procurement mechanism and bringing it into line with the WTO requirements, allowed for increased control over the use of state funds and a measure of normalization of the situation in this area. At the same time, the President's letter notes that certain provisions of the law give rise to some warnings because of imperfection, and the mechanism for purchasing goods, jobs and services for public funds needs further changes, including with a view to introducing positive international experience. In this connection, the President invited the Supreme Council to continue its work on improving the purchasing mechanism in order to prepare a new edition of the Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds and to ensure the adoption and official publication of the relevant law, I stress, by 15 August 2007. In view of this, a working group was set up in the Supreme Council, which, on the basis of the bills that were registered, prepared the only project that was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a law on 19 June, that is, two months before the deadline requested by the President. The specificities of this law are not only the introduction of more favourable conditions for public procurement procedures, but also the balancing of the public control system in the field in question, which is very important in terms of the European Union’s requirements for Ukraine in the context of the construction of civil society. In accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the official text of the adopted law was sent to the President of Ukraine, but the Secretariat of the President unlawfully refused to receive it. It is stated that the situation of legislative regulation has led to the purchase of goods, jobs and services for state resources at the President's Secretariat seeking to take advantage of the political struggle, the ultimate goal of which is the single usurpation of state authority, the introduction of an incontravention against the Constitution of Ukraine, which replaces legislative activity, directionality. In citing the opinion of the absence of a legitimate parliament in Ukraine, the President and his community want to take the following step: to assume the role of legislator rather than the unconditional fulfilment of the requirements of the Constitution, part three of which expressly obliges the President to resolve the issue of the signing and promulgation of the law. In order to inform the public of the actual state of regulation of conditions and procedures for the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds in Ukraine, a photocopy of the text of the Ukrainian law amending the Act on the purchase of goods since 19 June 7th year was placed in the media. Given that in this manner, the President, in accordance with the legislative requirements at the right time, was able to see whether, more faithfully, he had been able to read the text of the law and made no comments, I stress, and in addition, was the President's personal agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers that he would sign this law necessarily, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine addressed the Head of State with a request to carry out all necessary actions, as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine, in order to speed up the validity of the law. To date, however, the President of Ukraine has not fulfilled the requirements of part three of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, according to which the Law mentioned since June 19 is considered to be approved by the President and should be officially published. The Supreme Council of Ukraine urges the President of Ukraine, Yushchenka, to act exclusively in a constitutional manner that makes it impossible for him to issue regulations on the procurement of goods, jobs and services at the expense of public funds, as well as to give orders to any governing government authorities and their supervisors on temporary regulation at the level of a sub-legislative act of matters that require legislative regulation under the Constitution and are already regulated at the legislative level. Accordingly, according to the content of such a statement, it is proposed that this statement and the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be forwarded to the President with the text of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Purchase of Goods, Works and Services at State Costs from 19 June of the seventh year and the text of the statement. Such a brief two - part decision is proposed. If there is no objection, I put this ruling to the vote as a decision of the Supreme Council. Please. [[13:02:44]] Thank you, 257 for it. I have an offer to consider another question, and at that end of the meeting. Is there no objection? However, we later started working in connection with the use of a break, the right to a break. It is proposed to consider the draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the elimination of the inviolability of individual officials and the referral of them to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. First, we're considering the decision to include this project in the agenda, this is the registration number 4058, and the decision to make. I'm voting on the question of including this issue in the agenda. It means both the decrees and the law. [[13:04:00]] For 254 Decision taken. Reports from fellow authors John Boki. Please. Boki, Kiseljov, and Zamkovenko were involved in the project. That's what I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, although, as far as I know, Ukraine is not listening to us, only Kiev. The Constitution of Ukraine contains a series of articles that provide guarantees of inviolability for individual officials of the authorities of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the judges. At the same time, the constitutional regulation of the inviolability of Ukrainian national MPs is too wide compared to other democratic countries. The extent to which the Ukrainian President is not touched by the Constitution in general or by law is not established. In this decision of the Constitutional Court in the case of the integrity and impeachment of the President of Ukraine since 10 December 2003, it is stated that the President of Ukraine does not have criminal responsibility at the time of the execution of his duties, nor can a criminal case be brought against him. Thus, the inviolability of the President of Ukraine, especially given the practical impeachment of the impeachment procedure under the current Constitution of Ukraine, is absolute, he is responsible only in front of the Most High. I am personally convinced that for our President, as a man of deep-rooted Asian-monarchic traditions, not equality among other believers has been perceived as an abuse against him before God and men, and he, as a true European, will gladly rid himself of such injustice and will publicly declare it, if not today, tomorrow. It is not a secret that the constitutional approach that has so far been established often results from the abuse of integrity as a means of avoiding responsibility for breaking the law. In doing so, the level of legal protection of the average citizen is extremely low. As part of the first article 29 of the Constitution guarantees personal integrity for everyone, we feel that the equality before God of Ukraine’s national deputies and the President of Ukraine should be equal before men and before the law, as should other Ukrainian citizens. In connection with this bill, it is proposed that the guarantees of inviolability be revoked for the officials mentioned above. In particular, we are referring to the exclusion of parts of the first, third, article 80, and parts of the first, article 105 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It is proposed that this law take effect on February 20, the following year. For me, personally, this date will be memorable for personal reasons, but it is simply calculated by constitutional order to take into account the validity of changes to the Basic Law during two sessions. The adoption of the bill will increase public confidence in the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine. I think that both you and I, and the President, with an awareness of our equality with other Ukrainian citizens, will throw off the burden of inviolability and will be equal before the law. And the last joy. The bill does not require additional, praise to God, does not require additional spending from the state budget of Ukraine and thus overburdened by billions of expenses on presidential parties, armies, self - advertising, flights of Baloga home, building houses and residences. Our law is about self-cleaning and the President, and we ourselves, and the cost here is exactly not necessary, we just need conscience and lawfulness, and we have it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u77	Is there a question for John Sidorovich? Alexi Yakovich, sign up. That's how I realized there are no questions. There's a question. Ah, there's-there's a Samuel Catherine Seminal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u78	Thank you. Ivan Sidorovich, tell me, please, that we are doing the right thing, that everyone and the national deputies of Ukraine, and the President, and, of course, the judges need not be touched. But please tell me what your opinion is, do we not need to make changes to the Ukrainian Act "On the President of Ukraine" and limit it if we have just made changes to the Ukrainian Law "On the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine" and saved a lot of money -- millions for the state budget, for the people of Ukraine. Should we not do so with regard to the President of Ukraine? Because you know a recently purchased plane for the President is 350 million. All elections cost 350 million! And that's because the President is not outgoing, and he's only accepted in the states where the pro-American regime is established. Isn't it time to make changes to Ukraine's Presidential Act today? Your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u79	I can answer that very briefly. It's a perfectly normal and reasonable offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u80	Okay. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u81	Dear John Sidorovich, I don't have any comments, you've made extremely clear, specific information, and if you haven't even listened to it, it will be printed, I think, and our compatriots will get to know it. Therefore, I propose that we stop the discussion and proceed to the vote, since it is a matter of directing our decision to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u82	Ivan Mikolaiovich, I don't think this is as much a question for me as it is for the chairman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u83	Actually, it's an offer to all deputies. So there was an offer to stop asking questions. We need to talk. Ivan Mikolaiovich, this is clear to you, and it is not clear to all MPs. So please, John Sidorovich, answer Popescu’s questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u84	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend John Sidorovich, you have proposed that these standards enter into force the following year. I would like to ask, after the deletion of article 105, section 1, of the Constitution, when the President of Ukraine does not exercise the right of inviolability, will he be responsible for those crimes when he violated the Constitution during the 2007 events, if that happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u85	Ivan Vasilovich, I think I'm going to answer this question a little bit more easily, but it's also narrow. I believe that our deeply trusted President has already been concerned that he has been untouchable since tomorrow, and we will not wait for February 20th next year. We think that he himself will show a high mind and repent of his sins, and we as humans, well, Christians, may forgive him his sins. But perhaps the question of judicial authority is not how to answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u86	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u87	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. When you walk around the city of Kiev, or any other city, there are appropriate cabins and they collect signatures for immunity. True, when you ask them what it is, those who gather do not know. Whatever the case, those who are in charge of this process will explain what it is. But the question is: Will it be considered in the future, do you think it is necessary to consider whether it is necessary to review the standards of integrity of judges? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u88	I think, personally, that this is a question that we will inevitably approach and must approach. Because there can be no touch and no touch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u89	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u90	Dear reporter, before that, we voted for amendments to the regulations, to the status of the national MP, to the law. And they didn't vote on the twenty-seventh article, where it's about the inviolability of the Ukrainian national deputy. In order for there to be no speculation from our opponents, in order for people to understand why we did not vote in favour of withdrawing the immunity, in favour of amendments to the law on the status of the national MP, we did not vote because we had to first remove this rule from the Constitution, I want you to now confirm that we are now introducing into this law, which you report, article eighty, which cancels total parliamentary immunity. We do it, we vote, because we don't have 300 votes, so we're going to the Constitutional Court for consideration. But we make our position clear that we are taking away the MP's touchiness, removing article eighty. And that's what we tell all the citizens that we're canceling the parliamentary immunity, and that's not why we didn't just make changes to the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, that we have to do it in the Constitution and then put it there. Please confirm that there are no speculations of opponents that we may be afraid of something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u91	Alexander Mikolayovich, you've been very specific. And I reaffirm once again that we are amending the Constitution of Ukraine as the Basic Law of our State. These changes cancel out the intrusiveness of both the President of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine. And the amendments to the Law on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine will be made in accordance with changes to the Constitution of Ukraine as the Basic Law. So here I'm just confirming what you've already said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u92	But we need to be more specific about the fact that we still need to be sent to the Constitutional Court because there is a procedure. Please, Alexander Mikolaiovich may not remember, for he did not often make changes to the Constitution. Matthews, please, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u93	Matvienko's faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Ivan Sidorovich and respected colleagues. I'll tell you now that I'm looking at this whole process, after the vote that took place in the hall, you know, I'm reluctant to remember the historical one, so let's say, a tour when these questions have been asked in the hall on more than one occasion. And how many times have we voted in favour of these bills that have been passed here in this room: both the MP's in touch, and the cancellation of the benefits in question today. And not one of these laws has, unfortunately, come into force at that time. I mean, to date, what's most offensive is that this case is made of pear. This case is made out of something, let's say, the auctions and they remember the case, so to speak, when the elections are coming. We know that the socialist faction has consistently expressed its position clearly. There are no questions, we will vote. But the question is, I'd like to know. If we are talking about justice and honesty in this matter, why are we today creating a caste that is still alive?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u94	Sergey Anatolyovich, Your Honor, I don't think we castes are creating, there are simply certain stages, as they say, in solving this problem and the next stage, I think, will be completely bound by the elimination of the immunity of judges. What you're saying is that this is a question that's used for piar, for, well, I always say that, and to support the pants of certain political forces, it's perfectly understandable. And why it's used in the pre-election period is also understandable. But we're clean people with you, we're conscientious. We take it seriously, we take it seriously. It is our hope that conscientious people and those who will vote in the second will do the same. Well, that's obviously going to be the next call. And we have the same conscience as the President, and he'll back us up, so I'll say it again. He's got all these Asian habits, he's European, and he's definitely gonna take them off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u95	You speak up, Ivan Sidorovich. Cibenko insists on those who have been written down, even though time has passed. Please, Peter Stepanovich, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear John Sidorovich, you know very well how one of the authors of this bill is that there is a bill that my colleagues have drafted by faction that repeats that bill that is, except for one rule concerning judges. There is no doubt that we have to vote, and the faction of Communists will vote in favour of your bill, because this does not only solve the issue of essentially changing the Basic Law of Ukraine, but we remind the President in this way, who of all people is talking about the need to remove the parliamentary immunity, so we remind him that it also has a higher level. We're trying to solve the issue essentially, including reminding the President that he has a much higher level, unlimited, I'd say, level of intrusiveness. And that's why we solve this issue in a complex way. Thank you. It's not really a question of the position of the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u97	I understand. Peter Stepanovich, I am absolutely sympathetic to your bill, and Valentin Grigorovitch is a witness to this, and we discussed this issue yesterday. And I think I'm saying again that it's going to happen. But today we've taken a big step with you, a big step towards the President's lack of the touch you've been talking about, and I think for him today is also a historic and joyful day.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who would like to comment on this? I have an offer from factions. Is there no objection? Because it's a consensus, and the question is about important things about the Constitution. Sergey Headate, please. Further determine who will act from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u99	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to say that let's not be more holy to the Pope of Rome and go to the fairway of the populism that the President and Timoshenko have taken to, and let's not confuse these things and maybe confuse people. To date, three categories of officials have a certain number. Immunity rate. The president has absolute immunity, he can't be held criminally responsible at all. This has to be canceled. There are deputies in second place. They can be held accountable, but they cannot be held accountable without the Supreme Council. Criminal. And the third one is the judge. They did. You can break a criminal case, investigate, go through all the courts. And only when the arraignment comes into effect will the Supreme Council’s consent be required. So in these matters, we need to look at the extent of the MP's immunity. The Venice Commission recommended, after a kuchmian referendum, that parliamentary immunity should be limited to at least a judicial one. What, many criminal cases against judges have been filed today? No, it's not. One or two. One or two. But that's not the point. The point is, why doesn't the D.A. file criminal charges against judges, ministers, deputies? Why? Immunity is not the problem. I will vote in favour of this bill because it goes to the Constitutional Court, but I hope that the Constitutional Court may take account of what we did not take into account, the conclusions of the Venice Commission. What is left in article 80 does not resolve the issue, since the first part cancels out with 80 and the third part ends with the second. National MPs do not have legal responsibility for the result of voting or expressing themselves in Parliament and its organs except for the responsibility of insult or slander. Well, first of all, there's no more slander in Ukrainian legislation. The Constitution was adopted until the Criminal Code was in force. We were one of the first European countries to decriminalize slander and introduce it into private law, civil law, civil liability, so leaving criminal responsibility for slander in the Constitution is no longer a European standard. Next. They have no legal responsibility for the results of the vote. But the Constitution says that if the MPs were expelled and I was expelled from B.U.U. for voting for Prime Minister Yehanurov, if you were expelled from the faction, you would be deprived of the status of deputy. Is that not a legal responsibility? Politically speaking, the party is excluded, and if it is added to the status of a member of parliament, you are already legally responsible. So the remainder of this second part doesn't solve the question. But I think that the Constitutional Court, when it comes to it, will come out of the European standards that are meant to ensure the principle of the distribution of power, and the distribution of power can be when authorities are held back and held back when certain guarantees of their independence are in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u100	To stay out of the discussion, I was even surprised that Sergey Petrovich had made such a legal error. Depriving a member of the faction does not mean depriving him of his status as a deputy. Our Constitution does not allow that to happen. So this argument is not entirely convincing. As far as slander is concerned, this is a matter of legal, for example, improvement in the rules of the Constitution. But he has a word from the Communists, Valérie Grigorovitch Matviev. Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u101	Dear national MPs, our constituents! First of all, I want to say that, unfortunately, our coalition colleagues have not supported today the proposals prepared by the Communist faction on a bill that would comprehensively address this very and very acute problem -- the problem of removing the immunity from national MPs, from the President of Ukraine, as well as from the judges of the General Court and the judges of the Constitutional Court. You know very well that we are being approached today by a very large number of citizens, and I am particularly convinced of this by working with the Justice Committee today. Citizens are referred to the gross violations of human rights, the disregard of the law by the courts of general jurisdiction, which, by using their inviolability, impunity, let us put it plainly, often make decisions in favor of, or more often for, those who are violators of the law, or are generally, and they are all aware of, the criminal. And I'm drawing your attention to the fact that the judicial corps today, the honourable colleagues, is about 12,000 people. Think about it, 12,000 is, by the way, almost 27 times as much as the national deputies of Ukraine. I am not talking about the need to remove the inviolability and the judges of the Constitutional Court. And we've seen this through the interrogations that took place at the beginning of our consideration of our proposals with you on the unconstitutionality of the President's decrees. So a faction of Communists proposed a bill that would solve the problem in a comprehensive way. And we didn't sign the bill that's under consideration today. But given that we are beginning to solve this, as I have already said, very acute problem, it is necessary. And a faction of Communists will vote in favour of this bill. But we have hope. I'm glad we'll be back in the near future and move on. So we get rid of it, we cancel the touch and the judicial corps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u102	Thank you. Vladimir Olijnik of BUTU
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, it is easy enough for me to speak after Sergey the Chief, because we have practically the entire discussion in the language of the law. At the same time, I would like to remind him that there are not three categories, but four categories. Where did I find that fourth category? If you remember when there was a referendum on reducing the number of national parliaments and cancelling the inviolability, Major Melnick's records had such an episode of conversation with the President of a politician, where the President asked, well, let's not touch the MPs, what's it going to be? And he says you're our touch. And today there's a fourth category in the President's environment that's completely intact. A scandal of corruption, where the President acknowledged that he was, took place, unleashed, practically, all of his surroundings. And why the President didn't bring it to trial and why the President didn't go to the prosecutor's office, why the President didn't show in his own position that he was equal to everyone. And that's why we see that today, in the Constitution, there are some really strange things: to bring to justice a criminal, including the President is impossible, and that creates impunity. I mean, the President can do loving, even criminal acts. And we see it when the Constitution is so broken. And he knows that nothing will happen during this period. And then we have some strange tradition from the President to the President that we can't give out, because I can't see what Yushchenko said when he said that all those who committed crimes would be responsible. And for example, that norm, so-called, impeachment, is called. It is not active, and is called “dead norm” in the jurisprudence. And when someone says from this rostrum that we're going to do impeachment, he's not saying it honestly. Because if he knows the Constitution, he knows that it can't be implemented. And that's why we have to do all this not to, you know, eye to eye, but to have mechanisms that would allow the President to do his service duties, the deputies and the judges, but also to have real mechanisms to bring responsibility. And when the first one, one of the Presidents sits on the bench of defendants, then people will believe in democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u104	Thank you. Who else would like to speak from the faction? Kuzmenko? Please. And from the faction. Nothing. Yes. Speak, speak. No, there hasn't been a faction yet. I have to. I'm saying we have to put a dot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! I'm acting on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and on behalf of the faction must say the following. First and foremost, the faction unanimously votes in favour of the project because it considers it necessary, as the first step towards bringing Ukraine closer to the status of a democratic state. The other one. I think that this project, as a first step, is totally acceptable, but at the same time, we can't help but notice Sergey's speech and common sense. Indeed, by adopting this project, by eventually making such changes to the Constitution, we will be the first to pass through Europe in the status of parliamentary deputies. Because we're going to be the first state in Europe where a parliamentarian doesn't have any immunity. This may not be quite right, but we still have the opportunity to work on it. Next thing I'd like to say, here's some Communist colleagues talking about it. I want to say that in all my meetings with the voters, when I asked if I felt any difficulty in my work, in my life from the status of the integrity of the so-called National Deputies, I never heard from any electorate that this was an obstacle to my parliamentary status. But when you ask, Who among those who have been in court for once in their lives have not experienced difficulties in judicial proceedings and in relation to judges? Currently, no one else in court has said that he is satisfied, as the court refers to a citizen. I mean, I want to say that in terms of judges, we're going to need to make a decision as soon as possible about the mitigation, as a minimum, of that regime of invocation to the responsibility of the judges that it is. And if I don't, I want to tell the Communists that socialists always vote for removing the immunity of judges. And the last thing I'd like to say is, we're taking off the touch, we're proposing that we remove the touch from the President of Ukraine. But at the same time, in changing the Constitution, it is necessary to exclude all the norms that apply to impeachment, because by removing the point of inviolability, but by leaving the description of the procedure of being held accountable, we are entering a legal coalition. So, I think about the final consideration of the Supreme Council, all of these issues need to be taken into account. Once again, the Socialists unanimously vote in favour of sending this law to the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u106	Sergey Leonidovich, we support. I support your offer, only you probably weren't exactly accurate when you said it affected impeachment, impeachment procedures. Because even with the President's responsibility -- let's take a theoretical situation like this -- there's got to be a written mechanism for how to do this, because it's still the President. Otherwise it will have to be directed if we make your proposal, implement it, as Kramarov said in one movie: “Whatever you can do with it, it is a monument.” Do you understand? You have to write it down more precisely, and you have to predict all these details. And so that law has to be passed anyway. During the discussion, more faithfully, the proposal struck, mentioning the name Sergey Petrovich the Chief, and asking for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u107	Alexandre Alexandrovich! Did you say where I saw the risk of that in the Constitution? Exclusion. Paragraph 6 of part one of article 81: “Not the entry of a national MP into the faction for which the party is party. I don't know if it takes him out. “ I’m sorry. ” And what is the way out, you know. The MP tolerates timoshenko's dictatorship, tolerates it, and can't, votes differently, goes out and gets out of status. What's more, look at their bill on local MPs, the Butian bill they're interpreting not entry or exit as what? It's like being expelled from the faction. Not in. That's how they interpret it. So freedom of speech here, freedom of vote here can never lead to the depriving of the status of a deputy this is and is a legal responsibility in this I have seen this risk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u108	Thank you. Thank you for your clarification. I think everything has been told convincingly. A replica? Please, Gusak. Gritzak, excuse me, sit two generals together, one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u109	Basil Gretzak, Party of Regions. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, I propose in the second paragraph to write: “This law takes effect after amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-04-m0.u110	You don't have to write that, I'll explain. Because we, this law, should vote and refer it to the Constitutional Court. And there's the order provided for in the 13th chapter of the Constitution, and then he looks at it, he makes conclusions, he comes back to us, and then we're going to look at it definitively. In view of this, I refer in this case to Sergio Petrovich, as he said. There is a comment by the Venice Commission, and I do not rule out that the Constitutional Court will then write these formulas both for the President and for the deputies as it does in Europe. One option was to look at where it was about the substantial limitations of inviolability, the status of inviolability, but ensuring the work of a normal MP, and of the President, and so on. Because there are certain risks here, I think the Constitutional Court is going to be accurate, correct in this respect, because it's ultimately his duty. There were no other suggestions. I propose to vote on the Supreme Council's decision on inclusion. to this bill and to vote on the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine on the guarantee of immunity for individual officials. It's short. Sections 1 and 3 of article 80 and part 1 of article 105 of Ukraine should be deleted. This law takes effect on February 20. This question is questionable, and after the Constitutional Court has reached its conclusion, we take this proposal into account. I'm betting on a vote to support this bill. There was such an offer. [[13:37:21]] For 259. There's a motion to vote on this, it's in your hands. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm voting on this motion for a ruling as a whole. Please. [[13:37:51]] For 260 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions we were going to consider at the meeting today are under consideration. I thank you for your active participation in the work. I'd like to ask the committees and factions to work on the projects that are planned for plenary review, and to work in the districts to wish you success in the work you do there. Good for you. Good-bye. I declare this session closed.
