ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you to prepare for your registration. Take your seats. A roll call is being made. [[16:01:49]] 257 national deputies registered. I announce the adjournment of the morning session, and I announce the evening session. Now I have this offer. We have a lot of work to do today. There is no doubt that we will be able to accept them in two hours. So I'm asking you to continue the sessions until the end of these issues, but, of course, not later than 12 o'clock in the night, that is, not later than 24 hours. I ask you to vote on this decision. Please. And then we exchange views. That's what we have to do. [[16:02:43]] For 214 Don't you get it? I'll bet again. Please. [[16:03:05]] For 217 Who wants to exchange their thoughts, sign up? Baranovsky. Five minutes, please. In a minute, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u2	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Alexander Alexander, I understand so much that I did not understand the need to work until all the laws are considered, and why, by 12 p.m., and why there is such a need, perhaps someone would have made it clear and made it clear that there would be other votes in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u3	I'll explain. I understand. We need to explain more. We know we're dealing with people who don't really respect the laws and the Constitution. If we don't put in the law, for example, about election of specific regulators and time-limiters, in forms and so forth, it means that those who have already taken quite adventurous steps are quite able to announce elections in two months, or after a few other periods in any form, including under the old law. I'd like to take these details into account, which is all that time spent preparing the relevant legislation. On the other hand, we must also adopt laws on budget changes, providing for a time frame in this law for its implementation, under which conditions and so forth, so as not to create preconditions, not to impose the Cabinet of Ministers under the influence of law enforcement authorities, who allegedly do not comply with the President's decree or with the relevant document or with the law. I would also like to see to it that the rule of law is maintained in Ukraine. However, the content of these bills provides for legal restrictions that would prevent volunteerism from interfering with the situation. There are other circumstances. I'd like us to take that into account. It's not about the fact that by 12 o'clock and all the laws that were provided for there in the daytime, but there are key laws that must certainly be passed by other normative acts. Samolik, please. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u4	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I believe that we must take the following into account in this situation. The usefulness of our work depends on how the third paragraph of the joint statement signed by the President, the Prime Minister and the President of the Supreme Council will be implemented, namely, when we see 151 declarations of withdrawal from the BUT faction and our Ukraine deputies, and then we will understand whether or not there will be a decision on early elections. That's a first. Secondly, I would like to inform you once again, distinguished by our voters, that the factions of BUT and our Ukraine are not in the room right now. BUT and our Ukraine have blocked the preparation of laws for fair elections, they have renounced the voter register, and the President has refused to do so. They refused to let us seriously and severely control those who cross the border, and so on, of course, we should not take part in the elections because they left. From how much we have.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u5	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u6	I'm going on. [[Simonenko]] They have refused to make real arrangements through legislation with those who have left Ukraine. We are particularly concerned by the well-respected voters, those who are already of age, our dear pensioners, who today virtually refused to correct what they did during the President's third round of elections in 2004, when 2.5 million Ukrainians of late age were simply thrown out of the vote. It's all being blocked today. The President suddenly and cynically, I am not afraid of that word, today he is trying to induce the Supreme Council to adopt only those laws that benefit him, i.e. the law, the amendments to the Elections and Budget Act, and thus to hold illegal elections. That is, the President is on the road to war with Parliament and his people, and he is trying to do everything to usurp power. I believe that we should not allow such a thing, and especially given that the deadline for its ultimatum, which he proposed, expires at 24.00, by making a decision to suspend.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u7	Thank you. Clearly, the position is clear. Are you not changing your attitude about the extension of the meeting? Not until twelve o’clock in the morning, said Peter Mikolaiovich. I thought we'd continue for an hour, and he said by twelve o'clock at night, so I'm betting he'll please. You have it in your hands. I'm asking for your attention! I'm asking for your attention. You have a draft Supreme Council Regulation on certain measures to ensure the implementation of the provisions of article 81, section two, of the Constitution of Ukraine. This is exactly what Peter Mikolaiovich was just talking about. I'm putting to the vote the inclusion of this order in the agenda of this issue. [[16:10:02]] For 254 Decision taken. Since journalists are interested in the content of our documents, I bet I read this text. In order to implement the provisions of article 81, part two, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall decide: First. The National Deputy of Ukraine, who has indicated his wish to leave the political party's parliamentary faction, the electoral bloc of political parties, whose election list was elected by the Ukrainian national deputy, submits a personal written application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is registered in the correspondence sector of the Service Correspondence Department of the Department of Management of the General Office of Documentary Security. However, according to part three of article 60 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the chairman of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council reports in writing. The other one. A personal written statement by the National Deputy on the withdrawal from the political party’s parliamentary faction, the political party’s electoral bloc, by which he was elected as a national deputy, is submitted to the Secretary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the day of its registration. Third. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in the absence of a chairman at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, announces the text of a personal written statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy on the withdrawal from the membership of the parliamentary faction at the nearest post-registration meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Four. The original written statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy on the withdrawal from the political party's parliamentary faction is added to the minutes of the relevant plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and a copy of the statement is sent to the Central Election Commission no later than the day following the announcement of its text at the plenary session of the Supreme Council. Fifth. The written requirement of the head of the corresponding parliamentary faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine gives him a copy of the recorded personal written statement of the National Deputy on the withdrawal from the deputy faction. Six. The announcement at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the text of a personal written statement by the National Deputy on the withdrawal of a faction or receipt of a copy of such a statement by the Central Electoral Commission for the absence of a decision by the higher governing body of the relevant political party on the early termination of the powers of the Ukrainian People's Deputies is not the basis for recognition by the Central Election Commission of the next election of the candidate for a national deputy in the electoral list of the relevant political party, in accordance with part one of article 101 of the Ukrainian People's Deputies Act. Seven. The national deputy of Ukraine, who filed a personal written application for withdrawal from the MP until the decision of the senior governing body of the relevant political party to terminate the mandate of the national deputy is made in accordance with the established order of the decision of the senior governing body of the relevant political party to terminate the mandate of the national deputy in full. Eight. In the event of a decision by the senior governing body of the relevant political party to terminate the powers of the national deputy on a term basis, the Central Electoral Commission shall decide on the recognition of the next candidate in the national electoral election list of the respective political party, in accordance with Part One of Article 101 of the Law on the Election of National Deputies. This decision takes effect from the day it was published. I point to one point, the most important point here is the right of the MP to take such an initiative, protected until the assembly of the respective party has taken a decision on it. And only after the assembly had decided to revoke his office as a deputy did only the Central Election Commission take that into account. Until such time as the convention has determined, no one has the right to order it, as it were, by status. That's what this draft document is all about. We discussed it earlier on. Just now at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and in principle they agreed to this approach. I would ask you to identify yourself as to its meaning. Anyone who wishes to speak, please. This is the registration number 3592. Note this. If there is a proposal on the basis, then you can correct it. Let's vote on the basis, please. [[16:14:44]] For 244 As a basis, it's been accepted. Who, please, has what thought? Please sign up. From the faction, please. Individually now, please. Please, Matvienkov. From the place or from the place? Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u8	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. The distinguished Alexandrovich, respected colleagues, in fact, to this day in the legal field, we do not have this procedure, and those conversations that have recently been going on about this process are, in fact, more than any specific legal steps. Therefore, in order not to allow for any failure to allow for any moment of violation of the rights of the same MP or of a violation of the procedure of the whole process, I believe that this ruling reflects to some extent the very way and the process of the mechanism of all this execution. The only thing I'd like to do is take a look. It refers to parties, but we still have sample blocks and parties. Therefore, as far as the sample blocks are concerned, a purely technical amendment is concerned, and I therefore have an offer to adopt this regulation as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u9	I'm going to make one point that I read for the first time the "election block and parties" and then I missed for the sake of the economy of time. It's all written all over the place. It takes into account your offer. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u10	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. My comment was announced by Matvienkov, you said, so I will not insist and I will propose to go to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u11	Is there any other way of thinking? That's why I'm putting this order to a vote, 3592 as a whole. [[16:17:18]] For 246 For 246, the decision is made. The factions? Please use fractions: 181 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 9, Our Ukraine – 0, SPI – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. You've got a day-to-day draft decree on the temporary appointment of judges for administrative posts and discharges. [[Registration number 3581-1]] For inclusion in the agenda, I ask your consent to vote on this order. [[16:18:30.]] For 252 Decision taken. Please, Matthew Valerius Valerian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u12	Good afternoon, Honourable Head, distinguished national MPs! According to a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16 May 2007, number 1PP/2007 on the dismissal of a judge from an administrative office is recognized as not in conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine and is unconstitutional, according to which the head of the court, the deputy head of the court is appointed and dismissed from office as President of Ukraine. [[the position of part five of article 20 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudour of Ukraine]] The same decision recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine settle the issue of the appointment of a judge as the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, and his dismissal. In taking a decision in the case in question, the Constitutional Court took into account the principles of the independence of the judiciary produced by the international community, as set out in the Recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe of October 13, 1994. This is the independence, effectiveness and role of judges, where it is indicated that the body empowered to make decisions on the career of judges must be independent of the government and the administrative authorities. The European Charter of the Law on the Status of Judges of July 10, 1998, stipulates that decisions on the service promotion of a judge shall be made by an authority independent of the executive and legislative authorities. The basic principles of the independence of judicial bodies approved by the UN General Assembly Resolution of 29 November 85, which states that removal from office or dismissal of judges should be subject to independent review. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine has also taken into account the position of the Concept for the Improvement of the Judiciary in order to establish a fair trial in Ukraine, in accordance with the European standards approved by Presidential Decree No.361 of 10 May 2006, which provides for the establishment of an order whereby administrative positions in the courts are occupied by judges appointed by the judiciary, but it should be noted that the stated position of the said Concept will not be consistent with article 130, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which agrees with it. The judiciary is self-governance to deal with the internal affairs of the courts, since the powers of the head and the deputy head of the court are not only related to the organization of the activities of the courts, but also to the execution of certain procedural actions, namely the decision on the departure of the judge; the change of composition of the College of Judges, and so on. A constitutionally independent body responsible for the formation of a highly professional judiciary is the High Council of Justice. I suggest that we adopt an order in which, temporarily prior to the legislative arrangement, the appointment of judges for administrative posts and the dismissal of judges. The President of the Court, the Deputy Chief Justice of the Court, apart from the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Deputy Heads of the Supreme Court of Ukraine shall be appointed for a term of five years from the number of judges of the relevant court and shall be dismissed from office by the High Council of Justice on the basis of the recommendations of the Council of Judges of Ukraine and for the specialized courts of the relevant Council of Judges; the Heads of the Supreme Court of Ukraine; and for the specialized courts, the Heads of the relevant Supreme Court of Justice; and the Assembly of Judges, the relevant judges, the member of the Supreme Court of Justice. Item two. The authorization of the heads and alternate heads of the court appointed after the day of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, on the basis of the unconstitutional provisions of part five of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice, is subject to confirmation in the order set out in paragraph one of this decision. This decision takes effect from the date of its adoption and is in force until the law of Ukraine “On the amendment of Ukraine’s laws on the judiciary of Ukraine” and “On the status of judges” enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u13	Thank you. Write down who wants to ask questions. Knazevitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u14	Valeria Valeriyevna, as far as we know, the previous edition of the Law on the Court of Justice in this section contained a rule according to which the President appointed administrative posts, respectively, precisely because the rule of the Constitution states that the President is forming and ousting the courts accordingly. And nothing else was invented at the time than, in fact, the logic of going on constitutionally and re-enacting it in the Law on the Suduce. What you're suggesting may have logic, but I think it's a subject of constitutional regulation, not a legislative one. Don't you think it's important to take it to a different level? Then it could be reproduced in the law. And going the other way around is, I think, the wrong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u15	Yes, Ruslan, I agree with you. But if you see it, it's a temporary order offered by me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u16	Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u17	May I have the floor of the People's Deputy Laishka?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u18	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u19	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The honourable author of the draft ruling, well, it seems that before that you said that the President was trying to rule the judiciary. Today, when you carefully read your draft rulings, you are now trying to take over the administration of the judiciary, since the Supreme Council of Justice, to which you propose to appoint judges, is in the vast majority of your members. Moreover, it is not clear who will still recommend the Supreme Council of Judges, the High Council of Justice, whether the Council of Judges, or the Head of the Supreme Court, or the congregations of judges, that is, where is technology, who from whom is to be handed over in order to prevent pressure on candidates for the heads of courts? And in the future. When they are appointed heads to work for the law, not for those who put them there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u20	Thank you for asking. I'm very glad you asked that very question. As for the Council, come back, the Supreme Council of Justice. If you are well acquainted with the Constitution, you know that the Supreme Council of Justice is a collegiate body in which it is represented as judges, lawyers, prosecutors, representatives of higher law institutions. I therefore believe that, at this stage, it is the most non-politized body. With regard to the second part of your question, the committee did indeed raise such a question, and I would like to make an amendment to the transcript, after the words in the first paragraph of the recommendation, to put a double, and then to the text, after the words “heads of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, assembly of judges and members of the Supreme Council of Justice” with a comma. I answer your second question, any of these entities may be brought to the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u21	Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u22	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. It's a very timely decision. We're going to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, which says that the coalition today shows respect for the highest judicial body, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And we recognize his authority and recognize that a judicial decision of which we are obliged. At the same time, I would like to clarify some questions for myself. The point is: The Council of Judges also applied for the appointment of another candidate. But the president, simply and simply, did not accept, approve, or assign responsibilities. I think with our decision taken, we settle the issue of fulfilling responsibilities. But is there a ruling, let's say that if the Council of Judges recommended a candidate, or, for example, chose a candidate for a recommendation, could the High Council of Justice not approve such a candidate? Is there such a thing as safety, or is it not? Is it not, or what will it look like?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u23	Yes, I understand your question, thank you for asking. If you have noted, here is not only the Council of Judges, but also the Head of the Supreme Court, and the fees of the respective courts, and a member of the Supreme Council of Justice for the same post to submit several nominations. Yeah? This is where the Higher Council of Justice will be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u24	Chevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u25	I have a question for the Chief. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, since your three-way talks were untransparent, unpublished, I have a question: is this a draft decision that we are currently considering, is it part of the list of the legislative acts that you agreed should be considered today? Is this a coalition position that you, using in two days of opposition, just want to be considered and included? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u26	Since the three - form talks were accompanied by the leadership of your faction, ask her this question. It will explain in detail what has been going on all these days. More than two days. Please. In paragraph seven, note that the joint statement states that the parties refrain from interfering with the activities of law enforcement and judicial authorities in any way. We are now seeing a continuation of the intervention of someone who should not be allowed to develop, I think. By no chance does the Supreme Court of Ukraine provide for a separate consideration of the matter in the near future, for it is not possible to act now in violation of the Constitutional Court’s decision. Please, Oneschuk asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u27	Dear Valery Valerian! You know that today the Committee on Justice has considered this bill and, in particular, has made a number of serious observations on this draft decision, and particularly as this draft ruling is not based on or in line with the provisions of article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not include the powers of the Supreme Council of Justice to appoint judges to administrative positions. Moreover, this conclusion, as you already remember, directly contradicts the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the appropriate application of the Supreme Council of Justice concerning the interpretation of this one, namely, 131 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Why is your project, despite the obvious unconstitutionality of these provisions, proposing that the Higher Council of Justice be granted these powers in view of the fact that and in accordance with the relevant decision of the Council of Europe, Ukraine has a number of conventions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u28	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u29	With regard to article 131 of the Constitution, where this rule is not prescribed. I want to tell you that the same Constitution did not provide for the President to appoint judges. Yeah? So, I think, first of all, if you've been paying attention, this is a temporary order, to reconciliation and to the adoption of laws that regulate this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u30	Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please sign in. Factions, please. Individually, who would want to? Please, 10 minutes. Catherinechuk. From the faction “Our Ukraine”. Is that what he's saying? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u31	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, I would like to point out immediately that the ruling that is currently under consideration has not really been included in the list of bills that have been agreed upon by the President, the Prime Minister and you as the Head of the Supreme Council in the list of bills that should be considered today and yesterday. I also have to say with regret that this subject matter and the draft of this decision have unfortunately not been the subject of a consensus decision by a working group of factions and experts. And unfortunately, we have to note that the draft decree that has been tabled strongly contradicts the Constitution of Ukraine on these issues. In particular, my fellow officials, we are aware that the question of the appointment of judges has been decided far beyond the time of the cadence of this Parliament, among other things, and it has to a large extent been inherited today by those exercising state authority, including the President of Ukraine. By no chance, the head of state in those bills that have been tabled to Parliament, I mean, amendments to the Judicial Act, and which, by the way, as discussed in the first reading by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, provided that the appointment of judges should take place by the judiciary, particularly by the councils of judges, on the appropriate submission of the heads of specialized courts and the heads of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. And it seems to me that this structure, which has a consensus and was a consensus of Parliament, the President as the subject of the appropriate submission, in general the judiciary, could have been based on the same temporary order. In general, it is better not to have a temporary order, but rather to have a separate change to the Law on the Sudokus, which could actually be proposed and accepted as a suitable tool for settling this complex and responsible type of social relationship. Instead, today we are going to vote on a ruling that is probably outside the Constitution of Ukraine, because the Constitution of Ukraine does not empower the Higher Council of Justice to appoint judges to administrative positions, among other things, as Parliament does not. So the faction of our Ukraine, and I'm convinced that the faction of Yulia Timoshenko will not vote in favour of this decision. And, dear fellows, you should also know, but you know very well that the legislative acts of Parliament are available for prosecution. So all that remains is to urge you to be conscious of this vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u32	Baranowski, please, follow him, Billorus. Matvienkov instead of Barani.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u33	Regrettably, the credibility of all branches of government has recently been greatly diminished, and this is what we see in the process of exacerbating the crisis. The greater the crisis and the stalemate, the more serious the mistrust of our people towards all branches of government becomes. This lack of confidence is particularly emphasized by the judiciary, which must be an unwavering branch, which must be independent and clear. Unfortunately, the existing system has made it manual. I don't want to give you numbers right now, but think about how many administrative appointments have been made recently and how this has affected the effectiveness of this branch of power, and what we have gained from this effectiveness. To date, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, so far there is a conclusion by the Venice Commission that says that such a system is a bad practice. There can be no judicial authority as a mechanism for servicing one of the successive branches of government. Therefore, the best option, of course, would be for us to adopt the Law on the Court of Justice, which we have before us and to adopt on second reading in order to change this system once and for all. However, we see that, given the compromise decision to hold the elections, a compromise decision on the adoption of the KASU Act has been taken. In this regard, we must, and here we must, provide, so to speak, a system of transparency, clarity and clarity. And if we are to go to elections and these elections should be fair, transparent and open, then the judiciary and the judiciary must be honest, open and independent, open and true. That is why it has been decided in this decision, I believe it is the right way, to do so in a step-by-step manner, to give the Supreme Council of Justice the right to make such decisions so that they can address it, it may be self-proclaimed, it may be the decision of the Council of Judges, it may be the collective itself, it is a perfectly normal approach for a transitional period so that we can provide a clear, normal, transparent system, an independent system of court formation. Thank you. Please support this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u34	It's a Belarus. After him, Kuzmenko passes the word Mendushu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u35	The word of the deputy of Yavorowski Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u36	Yavorowski, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u37	Dear Supreme Council, distinguished voters! Unfortunately, there are literally hours of legitimacy of our work and I would just like to remind you once again, Alexander Alexandrovich, we have shown good will, we have come and see what is happening. I want to remind you once again that I belong to those who believe that giving these powers to the President in the administration of the court is not faithful. He compromised this practice, compromised Medvedchuk, planting his judges all over Ukraine today and, in fact, the Medvedchuk today, wringing with these whiskers to this day. I am absolutely convinced that this norm is not objective, that it is harmful. But what's being proposed today, I want the voters to know what's being proposed. No amendment to the law, there is a ruling today that the President will no longer be able to veto after your vote, because we will not vote for it, and this decision is now in effect. If Medvedchuk had done all of this before, this will be done by the noble Mr. Kiwalov. Look for the difference between all the recommendations that will be made. Because of this, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will not vote for this. We're about to amend the Constitution and I'm sure we'll do it before the legislation. It is necessary for judges to choose a nation and then judges among themselves when they are elected, to choose a certain term among themselves, such as the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, and so forth. This will be the truth. For this we will not vote in principle and we want our voters to know about it because it is a mistake. I say again, you will see the consequences of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u38	Yes. Please, Madduz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u39	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! The Socialists have always advocated that the judicial system be free of any political pressure. And we are consistent supporters of the fact that in regulating today's artificially created political conflict as well as any other problems in the state, it is only possible to function on the basis of a democratically organized judicial system. The President's right to appoint judges to administrative positions in the courts of general jurisdiction has been transferred as a staff member from the previous President, who has usurped this right in fact. And democratically elected President Yushchenko, who promised to organize all his work in accordance with European democratic standards, did not abandon this shameful practice. Moreover, he led her, if she could use the word, in this case, to perfection, for the civilized world does not remember that the President of the State, by his decrees, would release the judges or appoint the responsibilities of the judges of the general jurisdiction. Of course, the Constitutional Court’s decision puts an end to this shameful practice and is timely. Unfortunately, however, even the Constitutional Court's decision does not prevent the President from continuing to appoint faithful judges to administrative positions in the courts of general jurisdiction. Therefore, today the Supreme Council is under an obligation to establish an order that will stop ignoring the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Of course, in the Court of Justice Act, we should foresee the most democratically tested system in Europe for the appointment of regional courts in the positions of heads and deputies of the courts of general jurisdiction. Obviously, it would be appropriate for judges to recommend judicial self - government in such positions, if they were unable to perform such a function, it would be obvious that the council of judges would be in a position to deliver such a mission. But today we are forced to respond to the situation. Therefore, the proposal for a temporary appointment for these posts for the inclusion of the High Council of Justice is justified. I'll remind you, it's not an involved body, where there's representation of various institutions of power that allows the pressure on the judicial system to be minimised. I propose to support the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u40	Thank you. Those who wanted to comment on the matter at a certain time expressed themselves. Please. Look at the list of issues to consider. Then you'll take it, yes. Ladies and gentlemen, please note one detail. Mikola Vasilovich Polishchuk, Onischuk is absolutely right. This is a matter that needs to be regulated by law. And the right Vladimir Alexandrovich Yavorowski, when, which also refers to it. True, it speaks here of another mechanism for implementing the law through the election of judges and so forth. Well, let's put it this way, a little bit idealistic, maybe a model, especially taking into account the situation and tradition in Ukraine and European practice. But the fact that self - government of judges is necessary does not, for example, give me any doubt. I was hoping that when we voted on the law on the judiciary, where this change was envisaged, we would put a stop to this discussion. However, that did not happen. And for whatever reason you know. In the meantime, the Constitutional Court has adopted an appropriate approval, a decision which has been declared unconstitutional by the appointment of judges to administrative positions through presidential decrees. Especially when it comes to the responsibilities of the head of the courts. We need to do something about it. But I receive the President's decrees of appointment every day, regardless of what the Constitutional Court has determined on this matter. You can't let that go on. We're essentially crossing the legal system of Ukraine. On the other hand, the comments that have been made here regarding the order of court formation and appointment may also be considered controversial. But on the other hand, imagine that we are now going to vote on the draft law that Mikola Vasilovich spoke of, and I was defending it because I think it's more democratic. The law will be signed or not signed. He's going to get vetoed or he's not going to. When this practice is introduced, it will not be introduced. I think we can't leave this issue unsettled, especially when it comes to preparing for elections. I don't know how political power has its experience in this regard, from experience, I can say that to settle any question in a court of law in an election, if the head of the court is appointed, not defensive, impossible. External claims are rejected. Contrary to the law and logic, a court that forbids, for example, the counting of ballots and the like. I think it's impossible to go to the end of this issue before the elections without the right. I still want to, I'm sorry, give Roman Mikhailovich a word. I think that his opinion with mine doesn't match in part, but in part it probably matches. He takes the floor. Please. This is President Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric's representative.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u41	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. As a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine would ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take into account the following legal positions when deciding on the issue raised in the legal situation arising out of the Constitution of Ukraine. First of all, the President of Ukraine also asks to take into account that in accordance with article 92 of the Ukrainian Constitution, only the laws of Ukraine define the issue in paragraph 14 such as the judiciary, the judiciary, the status of judges. Therefore, the question of determining the order of appointment for an administrator., the administrative office of the judges can be determined solely by the law of Ukraine. Next. According to section 2 of article 19 of the Constitution, authorities and local authorities are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. According to article 131 of the Constitution, there is a clear definition of the powers and duties of the High Council of Justice. They are practically duplicated in the Law on the Higher Council of Justice. These items are divided into three separate positions, three separate categories of authorizations, namely: The Supreme Council of Justice has the authority to apply for the appointment of judges. Please pay attention not to administrative positions or to their dismissal. Second, he decides to violate the requirements of nonconformity by judges and prosecutors. And thirdly, he is disciplining judges as defined in the Constitution of Ukraine in categories. Nowhere in the Constitution of Ukraine, nor in the Law “On the Superior Council of Justice”, this body of state authority is empowered by the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to grant it. The President of Ukraine would ask that these constitutional positions be taken into account in the final decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u42	Thank you. We take that into account, and we have to listen, because, indeed, the right Roman Mikhailovich, this is a matter that needs to be regulated exclusively by laws. And it's a pity that we can't now vote on the law on the judiciary, that he didn't get the support that was needed by those who were just speaking for that need. And he can't be introduced anytime soon. But as soon as it is introduced, the procedure will be definitively adjusted. In the meantime, there are reasons for taking appropriate steps. I'll give you enough arguments on that next question. Anyway, we talked about the project, I'll say, imperfect, but what comes out of the situation is I'm putting it to a vote, registration number 3586-1, based on the base, please. Here comes the vote. [[16:50:24]] For the 250. What will be the comments, the additions? Katerinczuk has it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u43	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, I would like to characterize a decree that has been voted upon, once again, to try to usurp power in a part of the control of the judicial branch of power. Because this decree contradicts the Constitution. Eat, 92 articles, where the issue is governed solely by the laws of Ukraine. So today, when it comes to certain political concessions, you can't start with that. You know very well that your agreements with the President and the Prime Minister did not have this item on the system. I think it's a disgraceful thing and I would suggest that you remove your hands from the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u44	You're kind of right, but you have to take your hands off both sides of the court system, or on either side of the court system, you'll probably agree with that, too. Are there any others? Can I have a word with you, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u45	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. This decision cannot be adopted by the Supreme Council, because it is an anti-constitutional decision, and to confirm this statement, I can give a list of the names of the Supreme Council of Justice, here the coalition's representatives described how uninvolved and balanced the body: Renat Kuzmin of the Attorney General's Office, Svoslav Piscun, Kiwalov, Zavalnuk – Kivalov's candidate, Andriyczuk, Kolisnichenko – the former head of the Pecher Court. Of the 19 members of the Supreme Council of Justice 14, 14 are working on the so - called anti-crisis coalition. What kind of unengagement are you talking about? Do you want to put the court of law under you? What a goal this determination pursues! You can't take her. In addition, it is completely illiterate and stylistic and orthographic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u46	Bondarchuk, please. That's right, that's right. Please, Bondarchuk, last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u47	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich! We're not trespassing, we're just setting up a small fuse that makes it impossible for the President of Ukraine to interfere with the activities of the courts. And that's what we have to do. And I propose that the Parliament, resuscitated by the President's will, vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u48	Ivan Mikolaiovich, please! I'm making a serious observation. Parliament is not resuscitated, it is working with the will of the people, which appeared on March 26, 2006, rather than with the will of the President, and that is to be understood, because the people are the source of power -- that is the first. And secondly, I agree with all the indignant words that testify to the concern of the deputies, let's say, not the legal nature of the decision to appoint judges. But you've seen that there's a whole series of steps in the Temporary Situation that predict the very democratic nature of defining people for these positions. And that's a completely different mechanism, not what we see today, when one of the officials defines order, names and gives the President a signature. That's also wrong. And so I urge you once again: let's take a faster adoption of the Sudoku Act, where we'll work out the standard that Mikola Onischuk was talking about. And in the meantime, I'm putting in a full motion the Interim Order of Voting. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm considering. [[16:54:39]] For 253 A decision has been made. By factions, please: 183 – “Regions”, 9 – “Block Timoshenko”, 5 – “Our Ukraine”, 29 – Socialists, 21 – Communists, 6 – non-fractional. Ladies and gentlemen, I report that I am signing an announcement signed by the head of the Viacheslav Anatoliovich Kirilenko faction. “We report exclusions from the membership of the "Our Ukraine" National Deputies of Ukraine: Head, Gnatenka, Guriievka, Leshchenka, Mike, Skribljaka”. I'm letting you know about this. Now a small argument about the previous situation. When there was a recess, there was a break in the meetings, I got to know some documents that, in my opinion, could not leave none of the deputies indifferent. I'll read you a document. Give him an estimate. U.S. Attorney General's Office. Order number four. To be recognized as having lost the command. the validity of the order of the Attorney General of Ukraine. [[I read it like it's written]] In order to bring the legal acts of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine into line with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, Pro Prosecutor's Office and On Operational Search Activities, I hereby order: First. U.S. Attorney General’s Order No. 6 of 10.02 2007 "On the mandate of prosecutors to supervise compliance with the laws by the operational units of the Ukrainian Security Service in the course of the search and search activities", acknowledge that they have become invalid. The other one. Orders that prosecutors of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, districts, cities of Kiev and Sevastopol be brought to the attention of prosecutors in the area concerned. As far as I'm concerned, it's not clear. Listen carefully. Attorney General of Ukraine, Third Class Justice Counsellor Shemchuk [[B in m in s a l in]] That's why I think it's necessary to read this so that you can understand what's going on. We have three attorney generals in Ukraine today. Today, competition among prosecutors has begun, and today the same is happening in the courts. This is a deliberate destruction of the public authority system in Ukraine. As the Parliament of Ukraine, the legitimate Parliament, we have no right to stand outside of this work. I urge you to respond to this situation with conviction. That can't be right. You realize that if conflicts start and every General in his own way draws people to the responsibility of others, to block the work of power structures, and so on, we'll go a long way. I would like to ask you that we can respond to this situation in a way that allows us not to interfere with the work of law enforcement agencies in any other way than in the Constitution of Ukraine. And the Constitution of Ukraine clearly states that the Attorney-General is appointed and relieved of office as President of Ukraine under the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. There's nothing else. We're seeing this effect today. That's why I think we should take this decision of the Supreme Council of this kind, I suggest only, and look at you. ‘First. Refuse to grant permission to release Piscoslav Mikhailovich from office as Attorney General. Second: to recognize the discharge of the duties of the Attorney General of Ukraine as the Deputy Attorney General, Prosecutor of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea-Schemchuk Viktorovich in a manner contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Procuratorial Act. And this decision takes effect from the day it is adopted." [[B in m in s a l in]] I'd like to take this up. 3591 is the registration number of this document. For inclusion in the agenda, please vote. [[16:59:46]] For the 250. I'll tell you what. Please, who wants to make a statement? Sign up. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please sign in. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u49	You know, I, my esteemed colleagues, my respectable Ukrainian citizens, think that the President made a very big mistake by resuscitating, according to a fellow socialist about this Supreme Council, because it did not at least arrive at the slightest sign of legitimacy, they began with the gravest violations of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. Judges in administrative positions, instead of making appropriate changes to the relevant laws, are appointed by the Supreme Council decrees; they decide on the exit of the deputy from the faction and on the rights it is reserved for them by the Supreme Council decree. When the status and rights of the national deputy are determined only by the laws of Ukraine and you, Alexander Alexandrovich, have to remember that. They are now adopting a new Order concerning the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine. That's the compromise you were talking about, that's the compromise that you're still doing with the impunity you want, that's what you're doing in this room. Do we have to keep our mouths shut? And you use what most of you use, you use it. We do not accept such compromises and most of the citizens of Ukraine who represent the opposition here also disagree with these compromises. What you're doing, Mr. Frost, is “kidally”. You've learned very well. You're going to promise the President one thing, you're coming here instead of adopting a draft law on budget changes to finance elections, instead of adopting other draft laws that make it impossible to vote. First, you decide your own questions about the appointment of judges, the non-fractional deputies, the Attorney General's Office. What do you do? It's unconstitutional! And I urge the President to order the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine immediately! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u50	Please, calm down! Kenzier, please. Give the word to Kendzior. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u51	Jaroslav Kenzior, "The People's Movement of Ukraine", faction "Our Ukraine". Alexandre Alexandrovich! History already knows a hero who, by burning down the temple, has glorified himself in the terrible history of the world. You also belong to such a category of actions that you have already acquired and will forever be followed by the glory of Herostr. You're ruining Ukraine. All the problems in Ukraine began with the initiative of your constitutional reform. Today's problem began with what you, not anyone else, said here that the coalition would soon have 300 votes -- the constitutional majority. You know, a man of great pharisaic character, who seems to be a Ukrainian who supposedly writes Ukrainian poetry, and at the time he hates that state, is ferociously destroying that state. I am convinced that the Ukrainian people have already branded you as Judas, who, not even for 30 pieces of silver, has betrayed this state by much less money. And, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm sure there's still time to think about what you're doing and what glory for you and for your family, for your children to be heard in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u52	Please, don't worry. Kuzmenko, please. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u53	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, representatives of the opposition currently in the Chamber, distinguished by the Bureau. I would like to say that the legitimacy of the Supreme Council is not determined by Mr. Lazko and the company. The people of Ukraine, who came and voted, gave legitimacy to the Supreme Council. And a minority in the Supreme Council or in any other parliament has never before represented or represented the majority of the people of Ukraine. This is as unnatural as the conduct of many opposition representatives. Personal behavior, I mean. I therefore believe that the decision of the Supreme Council, the draft of which is proposed to your attention, is fully timely, is in the constitutional field. As has already been said, neither the appointment nor removal of the Attorney-General without the consent of the Supreme Council is possible. In order to remove all these issues and to clearly define the legal situation, the decision is intended. I believe that we have the right and the duty to support it, and I call on everyone to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u54	I'm a self-sacrifice. Simonenko, please. Last performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u55	Dear colleagues, and to a greater extent, I am addressing you, dear voters! The current question that Parliament is considering is essentially how to protect Ukraine from civil war. The President put Ukraine on the brink of civil war. And, honourable voters, I want to explain to you why I have drawn this conclusion and I warn you, because today this will affect every region of the country. There are three Attorney Generals in the country today. The Attorney-General has the right to order the use of force against individuals, specific entities, the use of force in terms of arrest or other measures. And I would like to warn you, too, that the law enforcement agencies today are simply upset at the initiative of the President among the various authorities. The governors in the western areas of Ukraine have, of course, directly submitted to themselves representatives of the internal forces, representatives of the Ministry of the Interior and various other forces. Thus, one Attorney-General, as we have just heard today, is ordering or ordering criminal prosecution and arresting some persons, others, or third parties. And such as Hellet and others like him, they are ready to carry out such orders today. I therefore call upon all the people's deputies today, my coalition colleagues, to vote in favour of this decision and to put an end to the arbitrary situation in the country. And I am convinced that the President, after having settled the oligarchs today, has in fact put the country on the brink of civil war! We have no right to allow such a thing. And what I want to remind the President of this is that, in advance of Troika, he ordered the introduction of internal forces into the city of Kiev in order to intimidate the unfavorable people's deputies today, and to force them to act outside the Constitution, the laws show once more that the President has become an impostor. The President today, in fact, following the orders of one of the oligarchs without respect for the Constitution, is driving us to civil opposition. I am convinced that we, the coalition, and the members of the coalition will do everything to prevent this arbitrary act from spilling human blood in Ukraine. But the President is blind and deaf today to what we call. I am convinced that we must stand on the letter of the Constitution and the law today and not allow this kind of mockery on the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I can be accused of any deviation from the procedure, from the nuances of the procedure, but in fact you can't deny me in any way. In accordance with article 85 of the Constitution and according to other articles in the Office of the Attorney-General, part of the President’s functions is that the Attorney-General is appointed and dismissed and appointed solely by the President of Ukraine, with the consent of the Supreme Council. This morning, when I met with the President, I proposed because he expressed doubts about the legitimacy of the work of the Supreme Council, even though it was a question of debate, and it was not a question of debate, because in fact the Supreme Council never stopped its status as legitimate. Today there is an opportunity for him to apply for consideration by the Supreme Council of the Attorney General, to decide whether to be released or to be appointed. He didn't go for it. And we see what this is all about. When an accidental person who is not the Attorney General is signed under the document “General Prosecutor”, which is not only a crime, but also a crime, and exempts the activities of the Ukrainian Security Service, which is now known to everyone and intervenes in the activities of other authorities, in particular the Constitutional Court, and so on. Then the question is, why are we the Supreme Council? We observe it only and believe it to be so, should we take any step in this regard? So I'm convinced that we need to do paragraph seven of the joint three literally, without interfering with the other structures of power, and we're only talking about one thing in this decree: run for the Attorney General, we'll agree on this and let the man work. But we cannot do what is done today, let us not assume. And that's why I'm voting on this motion for a ruling, please. [[17:12:25]] For 257 Decision taken. The factions, please. 183 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 11, Our Ukraine – 0, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 12. Richter's statement, please, ask for the floor. At the declaration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexandre Alexandrovich, prominent representatives of the media! All that we discussed yesterday and today has to do with, in my opinion, a moving document that appeared under the signature of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a major political compromise that gave all political forces the chance to stop the escalation of opposition and to get out of the protracted political crisis peacefully. It defined the basic rules that all sides of the political process would follow equally. No one was given any privileges or privileges to interpret it in a special way. It was, as we well understand, an extremely delicate and even fragile political instrument for settling our social conflict. Clearly, there was no way she could replace the Constitution or form a new legal order. The joint decision of the leaders of the state gave us a very great opportunity to deny a strong and extraordinary scenario in Ukraine. I must say that we have made not simple commitments but that we have consistently fulfilled in the session hall, both yesterday and today. But you and I couldn't predict that this statement could only be a decoration where our opponents look like heroes who have good intentions, but they're always chained by the strings of their uncles with evil faces and belligerent faces. I don't want to criticize Secretary Ada's statement of national security and defense of the Ukraine of John Plush, but she's too hard at the time of our search for peace. And it's even more provocative by its tone and its content, because it's designed to undermine the fundamental value of statements of three -- trust. Plush’s statement was the first to strike at this fundamental factor of compromise. Trust, I think, is not lost, but it is seriously blown up today. The second, in principle, is the continuation of the attack on the Constitutional Court, although the two sides in this matter take a diametrically opposite view. Obviously one thing the State’s protection cannot sit in the chair of the judges of the Constitutional Court, and it has done so. It's not just discrediting justice, it's like Pinochet in Ukrainian. It would be easier to place machine-gun towers along the perimeter of the Constitutional Court and pass an electric current through the barbed wire. Events in the Constitutional Court have nothing to do with democracy. There's a lot to talk about retreating to the presidential environment from a tough formula point.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u58	Let me finish. Repeat the three last words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u59	There is much to be said about the withdrawal of the Presidential environment from the rigid formula of paragraph 7 of the joint statement to all politicians, including officials of the President's Secretariat, to leave the judiciary and law enforcement institutions. But it has not yet been possible to dry the ink on the signatures of the guarantee of stability as euphoria has been interpreted too unilaterally. Once again, the state is under personal control. The architecture of authoritarianism is becoming a well - predicted trend towards power. And finally. Today, we do not know the reality of the intent to impose mandates on the opposition. This process should not only be responsible on the part of the opposition itself; it must be fair, transparent, and legally balanced. Instead, we see attempts to undermine the compromise that has been made and not meet our political obligations. Undoubtedly, it is the parliamentary-government coalition that is to blame for the collapse of the agreements. Dear colleagues! In my view, the time has come when we must act decisively and protect our common values with you. Constitutionalism, democracy, the rights and freedoms of citizens. Now and only now, we are obliged to take a fair but hard stand that will make it impossible to usurp power and introduce an extraordinary regime of government in the country. In such circumstances, there can be no program of action based on the values of our common political platform with you. There is still time to prevent another escalation of the crisis, which has all the signs of becoming a force of resistance at the hands of the military. We've seen this with you in the last few days. We know that from reports of military formations. This is evident by two parallel Henprocurators on the streets of Vraznicky and Bankowy. I don't want to address the men of war who left this room right now. But I'm sure it's important that we don't undermine citizens' trust in our leaders -- Victor Yanukovic, Alexander Moroz, Peter Simonenko. Nevertheless, we must try to dissuade the President from the opposition. Because the opposition wants to discredit parliamentaryism today and restore its status to the status of the Bank’s branch. I want to address the honourable President. Dear Victor Andryovich, you have a historic chance to be President of all Ukrainians. To that end, you must ensure that all subjects of state life return to the Constitutional field, restore the rule of law in the country, and ensure the real respect for the rights and freedoms of our citizens. One small step is needed to do this. It is completely clear, predictable, and very simple. Cut off the umbilical cord that connects the President to the opposition. The opposition today does not serve national interests. It provokes steps that undermine the stability of political compromise. I call on the Ukrainian voters to support our very position, and the Party of Regions, and the coalition to restore constitutionality and legitimacy in the actions of the State authorities to ensure our rights and freedoms. I am convinced that political compromise is possible if all parties follow it. For our part, we are ready to fulfill our obligations. We're waiting for a feedback response. I am convinced that you and I will never sacrifice the interests of the Ukrainian voters to transform Ukraine, which we are building today, into a state of power and democratic tradition, democratic power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u60	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to a few moments, a few nuances, so that we can determine our position correctly. Well, first of all. During your consideration of the matter of the Attorney General's Office, the situation in the Attorney-General's Office, you clearly drew attention to the lexical kit used by those who spoke from the opposition's stand. What non-chicken characteristics, which are not dirty according to the content of the phrase. Why? Because the Supreme Council, on a proposal given to you, said that the prosecutor should be appointed by the Supreme Council, or the Constitution, to be quoted. Not anymore. What criticism has been expressed as to how the withdrawal from the faction of MPs is organized, how the Constitution provides for the right to be deprived of its parliamentary powers. It's not about the individual. It's about many deputies, it's about the millions of voters behind them, it's about the MPs who don't write those statements. No, you don't. Why not? The explanation is very simple. We need someone to write some statements that no one has seen and then say that they are, and then say that there are 81 articles of the Constitution 82 Part 2 of the Constitution that gives the President the right to suspend Parliament's mandate. We don't mind, we've written in the statement, we're giving, we're getting out of the possibility of doing so in accordance with 77 articles of the Constitution, let the President use that right, because it's not intended for other structures of power, for Parliament, including, and he's going to make a decree to hold early elections if there's no two-thirds of the deputies in Parliament. That means 151 deputies have to write statements of withdrawal from factions. But in order for the Constitution to come into effect, it is necessary to write a procedure, as it is done, so that there is no machining behind the back of one of the deputies, behind the back of the Supreme Council, and behind the back of the entire society. We made that decision. And we will be guided about it. What was the requirement for two days to complete the work of the Supreme Council, as if to finish the work of the Supreme Council? And so that no one can be asked to go anywhere, even to announce a statement made by a deputy who is in charge of or out of the faction. It's fraud, not law enforcement. That's why I'm here. That's another argument about what I'm talking about. Let's continue today's session, let these statements read to us there, they'll make statements, I'll read them, we'll see how many people have done their bidding. And as to how much it's going to be, it's going to be determined by the Central Election Commission, which is finally only able to make the right decisions. And the meetings are appropriate to the conclusions of such statements. And before that happens, there are no excuses to say that the Supreme Council has ceased to function. And I'm going to point out this on purpose, so that we can understand what the moment we're at, the moment we're at. It's not toys, and it's not some kind of opposition to the will of the President's Institute or the President himself. The point is that we have to work in the legal field. If we get out of this legal field, there will be no good for the state, and it will end tragically. We can't let that happen. We're open to compromise. We are open to cooperation with the President, including. And no one makes him, let's say, disrespect or something. But once again, all the structures of power should work in the direction of the law and the Constitution. Then there will be the hope of resolving all conflicts. I ask you to re-vote the proposal for a continuation of work and then announce a recess so that you can prepare for consideration, including those related to the organization of elections, with appropriate law and other documents. I ask you to put it to the vote. Please, I'll bet you a vote. We'll announce the meeting later. [[17:25:32]] For 252 Decision taken. A break is being announced. You will be notified of the meeting time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, as agreed, after a brief recess, I continue to hold meetings. We've got it. Honourable National Deputies, May 30, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26, 2006, in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Igor Romanović's skin on the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Ukrainian Constitution, Ukrainian national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Skin Igor Romanovich, is invited to make an oath on the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u62	I am. Skin Igor Romanovich. I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u63	Hello. Let's welcome Igor Romanovich. And he wrote two statements. “Please announce my membership in the faction of the Party of Regions.” Authorized by the faction manager. And - “Please announce my membership in the National Unity Coalition”. Hello. [[Applause]] Please. Ladies and gentlemen, this is under consideration. will be considered, if included in the agenda, a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Justice. [[Registration number 3584, 3584-1]] I'm betting on the vote on inclusion. Now. About the turn-on. Wait a minute. Please sign the procedure. Sign up for three minutes. Zybenko. Valentin Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u64	Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you first of all how much abuse can be tolerated against the higher legislative body of the State. The humiliation of each and every one of us, as Ukrainian national deputies, to meet the greedy ambitions of the political and the demands of individual leaders of the political forces: BUT and Our Ukraine, whose own father is Victor Yushchenko, who, as we can see, will probably never be able to trample on the Constitution. Tell me, where else is the world parliamentary practice so that in the north Parliament will consider matters of vital importance to the country? Is there no other time? So I, a faction of Communists, urge you, honourable coalition colleagues, to think about how they want to divorce us today, use us, and therefore we suggest not to consider today those bills that want to go through the night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u65	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u66	Microphone. Please give the floor to the deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u67	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The communist hysteria was completely understood, for there will be no more in the new parliament. Because they betrayed the ideology and their constituents. To you, Alexander Alexander, I would like to make a request. Indeed, the eleventh hour of the night should not delay time, stretch procedures, and resolve all issues, as they say, at the pace of our work. And the last. In order to restore the constitutional work of the Supreme Council, I propose to adopt a Supreme Council decision to repeal the pre-arranged decisions on the provisional appointment of judges 3586-1, the General Prosecutor's Office and 3592 on certain measures to ensure the implementation of article 81 of the Constitution. Let us not act in a constitutional way on the final day of the work of the Fifth Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u68	I didn't know what you were doing the last day, we'd take that into account. Baburin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u69	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Whether they are Communists or not, they will be judged by the people. And you're gone because you've already written your statements there. Time to hand over Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u70	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u71	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexander Alexandrovich! About an hour ago, I was on the air with Andrea Skill, a national deputy. And I was surprised to hear that he stated that they were not yet prepared for statements of authority. There is a decision by the courts that impedes this procedure. I have a question. What happens in the room, what decisions we make when there is no constitutional basis for issuing the relevant decree and making the relevant decision. We do not refuse to work, we do not refuse to make decisions. But let's deal with the statements: we have grounds for early elections or we don't have them at all. What this room is about, I want to know.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u72	Thank you. Here. I'm asking for your attention. And in the end, let's think about the question, you're going to take the line. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. As for the procedure, this is an important question that Alla Alexandrovna is asking, but it is not entirely relevant to this procedure. I want to say that so far no statement has been registered at the Supreme Council Secretariat. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Now. I ask you once again to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the day of the amendment to the Code of Administrative Justice. [[Registration number 3584]] Please, 3584, 3584-1. [[23:01:20]] For 374 Copy that. Timoshenko reports Julia Volodymyrna, please. And then Raisa Vasilovna Richtirovova, please. Is there no one who wants to report? Okay, please, Rajiso Vasilovna, please report. Who's going to report? That's it. Wait, Mikola Vasilovich, or Kirilenko can report, or Timoshenko, they're co-authors of the law. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u73	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, before your consideration, there is a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, which is the result of quite a long discussion during the meeting of the working group. Two bills were introduced: one Timoshenko, Kirilenko of the opposition, the other Mrs. Raisa Bogotyrov of the coalition. As a result, at the last minute, changes were made to the part of the bill's effectiveness. All the other standards in both bills are identical. The language goes in our bill that it takes effect from October 1. Norms of content refer to the way and mechanism for the prosecution of election results, as well as the release from public office of those officials, which is the nomenclature of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine. The case is also raised only in the Supreme Administrative Court regarding decisions to suspend the powers of Ukraine’s national deputies on a permanent basis if such decisions are being accused by the Ukrainian National Deputies themselves, whose powers have been suspended for a period of time. The amendments to the Code of Administrative Justice provide that such an accusation can only be referred to the Supreme Administrative Court. In doing so, it is clear how many members of the court deal with the matter and how long it takes to deal with such charges to the Ukrainian national deputies of the convention’s decision to terminate its terms of office in the due course of the term. In fact, this is reflected in several articles that are new. In particular, in article 171-1. We believe that this bill can be adopted by all the MPs because its standards coincide with the same bill passed by colleagues from the parliamentary coalition. Of course, we need to discuss the expiration date of the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u74	Thank you for the brief report. Is there a question for the author? I won't. There are questions, please, Alexandrovska, ask questions. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u75	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I was surprised to read the rules of your proposed draft law, which are clearly contrary to the Constitution. And I don't think we should even go to the Constitutional Court here. And you'll come back to me, and I understand why you don't want this court to work. For example, I would like to point out that here in the second part of the article, you suggest that the non-representation of the MP is in fact said by “the refusal of leadership in the activities of such a faction”. Please tell us what a normative document reveals the essence of the “action of such a faction”. Explain this rule of law, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u76	So, Communist colleagues, you're teaching everyone your life, and you're confusing the bill that's being considered. Look at the following law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u77	Have a seat, please. I think it's a technical error. First. Technical error at the point in position of MP. Please wait, please, there's a suggestion to listen to two projects, they're alternative and we'll talk about both of them right away. The word is given to Matthew’s coauthor of Bill 3584 with the same name. Please. And you should immediately consider the specificities or differences of the two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u78	Dear colleagues, you will have before you the draft law on the Code of Administrative Justice the main provisions which provide for the amendment of, in principle, the administrative judiciary “the substantive jurisdiction of administrative matters”, the mechanism for the exemption of certain persons who occupy certain positions, so to speak, and if we have heard the report now, what difference will we be talking about, two bills. There is only one difference in principle. It is that this bill, which we have proposed, has a mechanism of appeal against the decision in the appeal plan, the decision of the Assembly on an exceptional basis, after the depriving of a member of his or her parliamentary powers. And what Kirilenko was now saying about what was confused did not confuse the bill. No one's teaching anyone life. This is a completely different matter. There are completely different approaches to the consideration of the bill. Today, the representative of the opposition wants to turn the assembly and the delegation, but let us say so, into a group of people who should be able to decide the assembly on a day-to-day basis and not be able to appeal to their own decisions by any authority. Our proposal is that the person who has received the parliamentary mandate is a representative of the party and not a slave of the party, but a representative of the State. He works for the State and performs public functions. And from now on, he's become a state person. And those actions that are carried out after the removal of his mandate must have the right to defend his powers, since he protects not only himself but how many people he must work for. This is how two laws and two approaches are fundamentally distinguished. And this fundamental difference is going through the red thread through all the laws in practice, which are alternative, both on the one hand and on the other. Therefore, there is a proposal to support the bill so that the number of judges 7 and 11 can still be described as a normal approach in the appeal. A normal system of appeal has been issued. Therefore, there is a proposal to support the bill, as it creates a more or less normal transparent democratic system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u79	Are there any questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u80	Number 3584-1.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u81	Are there any questions? Sergey Anatolovich, Sergey Anatolovich, Sergey Anatolovich. Is there a question? The Baranovsky question. No, there is. Questions in Baranowski. Let me answer that. And Sasa's. Two questions enough?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u82	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Sergey Anatoliyovich, please tell me that you are writing here in the law: the right to charge such a legal act is vested in the person for whom it has been applied. Please tell me, do we no longer consider the electorate as a medium, the only one in power? If the right of the electorate is violated when he voted in favour of one or the other MP, what can he no longer bring to trial? I don't understand why we're the rights of the electorate of our own, who essentially chooses each deputy, why do we have them down here? And one more thing. There's a lot of questions in general. Failure to come to court by persons duly informed about the case does not prevent them from being considered. Please tell me, and the person is sick, and the leg is broken along the way, and the car hasn't arrived, and there may be thousands of reasons. Why are we so hasty to deal with these matters that it is so hot that the court can no longer bear for various reasons, someone who has not appeared, cannot pass this decision on to the court and even to all the parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u83	Thank you. There are two points of principle. With regard to the right of the sample, the right of the electorate is a separate issue, to some extent not a rule of the law. This is one moment. It is in principle here, so to speak, the two approaches that divide, judem speaking, divided us, our group, in preparing these issues into two parts. This part, i.e. part of the opposition considers that the electorate does not vote for the MP, but votes for the party, for its name, for its flag. We believe that the electorate is voting for the individual, for the individuals on the list of the party. And by voting, they may vote. Some regions vote in favour of this party because it has specific names. Some regions do not vote in favour of this party because there are names that will never vote in favour of the region in life. And speaking of people who have been given mandates and who have been tested by parties, that they are slaves, let's say that, purely this party structure, we don't agree with this, the approach is completely wrong. As far as your proposal for dating is concerned and so on and so forth. We've done as much as we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u84	I'm asking for your attention. This is actually the case law of what you said, Alexander Petrovich, and we answer, the case law so, there is no special money. And Sass asked the second question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u85	Thank you. Dear reporter, the point is that the modern electoral system in Ukraine is just saying that they are not voting for personalities, not for physionomy, sorry for programs. The program itself is an element of the status of the national MP to be executed. And that's why I completely disagree with you in your approach. The point of my question will be the next. The Socialists were one of the initiators of changes to the Constitution, the so-called constitutional reform. And that's where there's a rule about an imperative mandate. Why are you now trying in all kinds of ways to completely invalidate the Constitution by turning the people's deputies into a dead end? I think the voters will figure it out and give you an evaluation. So I think when you had double standards -- when you took changes to the Constitution or when you're out of the rostrum right now. Please give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u86	Sergey Anatolyevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u88	Sergey Anatoliyovich, since I have made proposals for changes to the Constitution, I will answer your question with your permission. Okay? What about him? Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u89	May I? I'll answer anyway. First, with regard to the introduction of mines before the Constitution, they were introduced. If you have seen only one imperative mandate in the pre-constitution, it is very bad that you read only this part. This time. Second. Socialists have never stood in the position of a peremptory mandate. That's two. This is the second moment. Third moment. So the system you're talking about right now, what you're trying to get our electoral system to do is the cat principle in a bag. What you're putting the entire electoral system into. To show five people or one of your leaders, to show the flag of the party to vote, and then to drink or to do everything you've done, so to speak, somewhere under a bag, underneath a blanket at the convention, you've moved into your lists. Now you've run out of these lists on bushes, and now you're trying to put the whole country in one pose to get them all together. So if you'll excuse me, you don't have to translate your problems into the entire State of Ukraine. And form your lists so that you don't have people running off the bushes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u90	Have a seat. Please. Here I can't comment on any questions or answers, please wait, but here I have to say because it affects me personally. I've been making changes to the Constitution, working on them. I mean, in our faction, then one of the deputies insisted on an imperative mandate. He's in your faction now. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's one thing. The other one. Sergei Volodymyrovich, when you were in the Socialist faction, you voted correctly. And when something happened in another faction, they stopped voting properly. So let us be patient with the way people stand for an imperative mandate. By the way, there is no imperative mandate, virtually no parliament in the world, I mean, not the world, Europe, except for certain countries with dictatorial regimes. I'd like to take that in mind. I ask you to register who wants to participate in the discussion, from factions sign up and individually who wants to speak. 15 minutes, please. From the faction of socialists, Vladimir Semenovich, or who will act? You? Please, Vladimir Semenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u91	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues, I rarely go to this rostrum. I understand the situation we're in here in this room and that we're doing it all over the country. I would like to recall a few points in my life in 2004 and when I voted in favour of polytreform. I am one, among other things, from the “Regions” faction and the “Regions” faction knows I did not vote for the polytreform for one reason: I never agree. What we've done with the voters' lists, When in the country today, it is almost very difficult to live an honest person. Nobody ever believes, you see how much damage I've got going on, that I'm a billionaire, and that's what's going on. And how much Timoshenko's got me down, too. Come to us at Ilyich's, you'll see a whole other Ukraine. I invited when I was first asked to come here and you know that I was fourth in a faction, in a group called "For One Ukraine!" I have never betrayed anyone, and today I am not going to vote and participate in this misery that is taking place in this country. And I've never betrayed anyone. I'm speaking on this rostrum today. What happened today is a disgrace to all of us. And remember, dear Regions that you are making today's decision. I understand one thing. I was ashamed to sit here and listen and make decisions. Why aren't we in factions, even in a coalition, talking, deciding what to do, and then going out? Where you don't look is one betrayal. Excuse me. You can say what you want to say to me, but you'll excuse me. [[Applause]] Therefore, in principle, today, today, today, we need to pause and talk in faction and figure out and then make some decisions. That'll be fine. And let the people listen to us. I repeat. I've never been afraid or afraid of anyone in my life, because I can honestly look people in the eye. I'll never let you. Look, I'll give you one example. Here comes Mr. Pojinov. He represented our Ukraine. You had a rating in Mariupola somewhere up to seven percent. Once appointed chief of staff, you landed at a rate of one and a half percent. Because this guy's been in jail for a long time, and he's in command, and he's still with Timoshenko. [[Applause]] I could tell you a lot of things. But I live by other principles, not the way some live. For every evil ever.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u92	Thank you. Please. I'm asking everyone to speak. [[Applause]] Please. I'm asking everyone who's speaking to be a good colleague. Whether he is an opponent or not, he is a national MP, he represents Parliament. Take the word for reply, take the word for it. Please. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u93	Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to try, I'd like to try and get our Supreme Council to work in a peaceful, normal, constructive way. We have two bills, they're the same by name. We have the same goal in court, with the third branch of power, with the judicial branch of power, to defend the election process, and to stop that vachanal when the Zacepil County Court can stop, or the President's Order, or the Supreme Council's decision, etc. Therefore, the claim to article 24 and one bill, and another bill, has no claim. Differences, but that's not what I'm trying to say. Dear colleagues, I've already told you in this room, and please don't blame me for any opportunism. Our own people, the dramatic and tragic story of the Ukrainian people, have forced and will be forced to gather here, in such a hall, so that, God forbid, not in the squares and learn to listen to each other and try to understand each other. But believe me, emotions here won't give us anything except that we're going to throw a lot of reasonable or unfounded suspicions at each other. Or we want to build a Ukraine that we've all talked about as powerful, beautiful, where a person will feel independent of nationality and the language in which he communicates well, or we'll turn the lives of our people into a nightmare. Which, in fact, has now happened and there are differences. Differences lie in what? In a different sense, the imperative of the mandate of the Ukrainian national MP, or, if you will, morality. I stand on the side of my colleague Matvienkov: there can be no Ukrainian national MP as a slave to the party, a slave to the faction. Maybe that's because I'm a two-pronged deputy major. And I want to bring you all back, as in 2004, there I, our faction of "Trug Ukraine", voted in favour of political reform because we had to vote and, or vice versa, we voted in favour of the election on the party lists. This bill, coworker Matvienkov and Bogityrová, will enable the Ukrainian people’s deputies to stand up for their honorable name, especially those of the tongues, the hardy ones who have a point of view. That is why I call for a peaceful vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u94	He said 3584-1, Zabzauk, please. Viennese? Please, Winsky. I'm asking for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u95	Dear colleagues, as we are now following the principle: in the city of the mouth and in Kiev my uncle, I am also forced to say a few words. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I want to remind you that the Constitution that we adopted in such a distorted way was first served by you and Simonenko. And there's your signature, and there's an imperative mandate. And our faction with the communists, along with the regions, voted three times in favour. That's why I wasn't the only one for it, but I was the whole Social Security because she knew what an imperative mandate was for our Ukraine. I want to tell you that I know that the first person to lose his status as a national MP when he's introduced will be me. But I agree with you today. You vote on an imperative mandate and I'll give my mandate tomorrow. Because I generally believe that a national MP, a national MP, should serve parties, ideas, not individual people. And he's not supposed to run from faction to faction, and he has no right to buy and sell! Unfortunately, you have created in the Supreme Council a mechanism of total political corruption! And today you have changed the political position of the party in order to leave this political corruption in this country forever. This is a betrayal not only of the party but also of the Ukrainian people. Second position. About my colleague Sasa. I want to remind you again that's a big lie. Sas came to the list of Soccer Blocks and the Selyan Party by quota of the Selyan Party and was a member of the Selyan Party. He saved the Socialist faction when Longan betrayed us and left with a member of the MPs, and he was still in our faction for a year, and thanks to Sasu, we saved the Socialist faction at that time in the High Council. And for that you, members of the Social Party, should be grateful to him, not to give a shit about the person who saved you as a party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u96	Thank you. Thank you for your good reaction to Joseph Vicentiovich’s words. We will not allow you to be out of Parliament. Let's not let that happen. Catherinechuca, please. What's the matter? Please, Onechück. After that, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u97	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. It's time to say something about the bill. Dear colleagues, what do they really decide? First of all, it's very important. I'm asking you to listen. These bills change the order of prosecution of acts of appointment or dismissal if they are taken by the President, by Parliament or by the Cabinet of Ministers. In particular, such acts are envisaged to be considered by the Kyiv Court of Appeal, as a court of first instance collectively composed of seven persons. Short deadlines are set and applications are filed for the prosecution and for the court’s decision. Moreover, it is also essential that such acts in the event of their accusation do not stop them. I mean, if you want to stop the execution, or if you don't get to stop the acts by those courts. Now, about the differences between these two bills. The bill, introduced by opposition factions, provides for the first to take effect from the time it was published. It's a general rule. The bill, introduced by coalition representatives, foresees that the bill takes effect after the election, that is, on the day of the new cadence’s entry into force. And another major difference. It is that a bill introduced by the national deputies, representatives of the coalition, also provides for and establishes a procedure for the prosecution of the assembly’s decision to suspend the powers of the national deputies in a timely manner. By the way, it also provides for a reduced procedure both in terms of consideration and in terms of delivery. In addition, both one and the other bills stipulate that the decisions of the courts, such as the Kyiv Court of Appeal, when it comes to the prosecution of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers, the President or Parliament, are final, are not reviewed in an appeal order, but only by the Supreme Administrative Court of Cassation. Well, that's the end of it. Bill number 35. -1 foresees that the decision of the assemblies to suspend the powers of the national MPs is not brought before the court because the authors consider it to be the position of opposition factions, that they are internal party decisions, cannot be the subject of a court hearing. I thank you for your attention. And I'd like to support Bill 3584. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u98	Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u99	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Honorable National MPs, Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, the press, the electorate. I realized that tomorrow, if not then, we'll probably have an earthquake or maybe it'll start. What tomorrow is going to happen is that we are here tonight, and today we must urgently adopt a law that essentially does not lead us forward. I just can't understand it when some people only saw it for the first time, and today they wanted it out of their shoelace and accepted it. I don't want to talk about the bill that the opposition colleagues filed, the point is that I remember how we adopted the amendments to the Constitution on the imperative mandate. And when we remove a position from there that, if the MP goes his own way, then maybe he loses his mandate. But if he was ruled out by a faction, it was not his will. At the time, this rule was adopted by the Constitution. We're trying to get it into the bill today, and we're still trying to make sure that no one can even press charges. I want to repeat myself in the same way that the electorate has the right to appear before the court when he voted for a party or for a person, because, if not an electorate, a party member can actually file because his rights as a member of the party are violated because a party loses its MP. We cannot agree that an appeal cannot be filed. Alexandre Alexandrovich, you say: court practice. This is exactly what court practice allows a person to appeal to a court, to a higher body, before a higher institution, to find the truth, so to speak. We're not going to do that in this case. I'd like to say something here, about the betrayal of some of the ex-partners of our faction. This is what happens in Parliament: whoever leaves BUT is all traitors; and who in BUT is now in charge of the party, and who is in charge of the faction. One day I don't understand these corresponding double standards, why it's happening like this. And I want to say one more thing. For example, I remember our Chiji going to another party, creating their own parties, and trying to build something. And here he was running the road, preparing everything for himself, then trying to destroy the Socialist Party, growing up in this party, being famous for being in this party, and then spitting in that well. Well, it's just Pavlik Morozov. I'd like us to understand who we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u100	I'm asking for your attention. Please, don't worry. I would like to point out that this bill was discussed most carefully in the working group, and everyone who was concerned about this document got a good look at its contents. So I just want to say one thing, Alexander Petrovich, I was talking about a practice that involves what sometimes is either a prosecutor or a prosecutor. Well, the plaintiff, most likely, can't be in court. Then, under certain circumstances, the matter is considered without his participation. That's what I'm talking about, from the case law, not the fact that a person can't protect his rights. Now it's about the vote. You will receive the replica. Yes, it is. You and Andrew will have the right to a replica. No, it's not. After considering the matter. In the Rules, yes. Here. I put to the vote the first version of draft law 3584, reported by Viacheslav Kirilenko. On the basis of that, please put it on. [[23:34:26]] For 171 It's not a decision to make. I put to the vote the project reported by Matvienkov as a basis. Please vote. [[23:34:51]] For 224 It doesn't work either. The question is out of the question. A draft law amending the Law is under consideration. Oh, I'm sorry. Zhijenov’s replica. I'm sorry, Andrew School, then Zhijenov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u101	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I want to emphasize, of course, I might not have responded because lies have no sex or origin. So I don’t like being told the lie to whoever it is. But I'm going to point out that it's bad when bills get confused, but even worse when they get confused, someone else's words change. Desired to make it real, it was always as if it were the prerogative of this political force from which this report was made, so, in principle, nothing can be added or subtracted here. I am sorry for the political forces that are making alliances with political bankruptcy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u102	Please, Zhijenov. I'm asking you, let's respect each other, let's do without education.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u103	I am also sorry that in all these years Mr. Boyko has not learned even a normal attitude toward people. And I'll say the hat on the thief is on fire. That's why he's saying all these things, because Illich's combination is a lot better than "Criminal". He stole it from the state. Today, there was a contest for the Komsomol Red Rule, and he also stole it with your help. All he's doing today is he's always saying that there's 80,000 people working on the combination, and the socialist party that he's asked to vote for in Mariupola has voted a little less than 50,000 voters, that's half of those who work, even though they might lose their jobs, they didn't support him in this situation. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u104	Thank you. Thank you, but we will now know how many votes have been voted in Mariupola. Because it has 100 of the remaining thousands all over Ukraine, and in Mariupola it has about 90,000 workers. If 50,000 voted, that's a very good result. I would like to propose a vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on the Status of People's Deputies, registration number 3582, 3582-1. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[23:38:11]] For 371 Please, Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, a report from the first project. Please. Kirilenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u105	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, your attention is drawn to the proposed Act on Amendments to the Law on the Status of the National MP of Ukraine in the part that touches on the suspension of the mandate of the National MP for the term. I want to say right now that we are persecuting by this law the adoption of a series of norms that will make it impossible for political corruption in Parliament to follow. Whatever right things about the imperial or representative mandate are now called by our opponents, yet nowhere is the truth of the children in this Hall, in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call, the problem of betraying the electorate dominant. This Parliament began its work with the betrayal of the electorate. True, this involved only one faction that received a weighty position. This betrayal was followed by representatives who followed completely different lists. And you, honourable colleagues, can think as much as you want about the European representative mandate for their deputies, but among their deputies there are no kinoes and heads-ons who betray their constituents and believe that it should be. Furthermore, we would like to say that the authorization of the assemblies, which suspend the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputies, should be provided for by this law. And this law establishes that the decision to terminate the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy is approved by the Assembly and takes effect immediately. In addition, there are several norms that reinforce the importance of this legislative act in comparison with that introduced by the coalition of MP factions. In particular, we believe that the non-participation of the MP is also the refusal of the national MP to participate in such a faction, or the actual opposition of the faction. In addition, we suggest that a personal written statement by the National MP regarding the permanent cessation of the authority given by him could not be reversed as a result of, for example, the pressure or political blackmail of political opponents of such a national MP. In addition, we suggest that the decision to terminate the powers of the national deputy be approved by the respective assembly of the party or between the party assembly and that such a decision may not be challenged in court by a national deputy of Ukraine whose authority has been suspended on a permanent basis. We realize that these are rigid standards that will not be a source of admiration for all. Moreover, our faction has also had enough heated discussions in its own time on the subject of an imperative or representative mandate. But by understanding the need to overcome the political crisis and by understanding the need to prevent political corruption and further processes of electoral treachery in the next assembly, we are going to do so. We understand that this kind of rigid imperative mandate is a transitional phenomenon, and when the political system in Ukraine stabilizes when the betrayal of voters and the change of money, or the position becomes impossible, we resort to the practice of a representative mandate. And now we are proposing to vote in favour of such a law, for it is this kind of drafting of the Law on the Status of the People’s Deputies that solves the conflict that began with the deep parliamentary and political crisis in the country. This conflict was linked to the fact that, contrary to the vote of March 2006, the coalition had begun to form a constitutional one, with the majority of 300 Ukrainian national deputies considering their actions to be legitimate. Such actions, and such activities, led to the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth call by the President of Ukraine. With a view to solving such a crisis and making it impossible to repeat similar situations in the future, we are introducing this bill. And to the end. Those statements that he loves so often are fond of mentioning our opponents in the last days, of the permanent cessation of authority by the people's deputies — members of the faction “Our Ukraine” and BUT — will be presented to you. Moreover, they were written a long time ago, on April 18th of this year. If you insist that they be registered with the Office of Human Resources Management of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the official of the administration on a self-written statement by the National MP, you will get this opportunity. But you will get this opportunity only if the coalition, in accordance with its commitments signed by Prime Minister Yanukovic and the Head of the Supreme Council of Moroz, votes to all the bills and all the decrees provided by protocol number one to the joint statement of the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council. If you are aware of the value of time, since the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are suspended again in zero hours, you will be sabotaging the implementation of the highest level of government agreement, members of the opposition factions will still terminate their mandates on the basis of their own written statements. And the Supreme Council of the Fifth Assembly, in accordance with article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, will become incomplete. However, it would be better not as a unilateral act on our part, but as a joint implementation of the commitments made by the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, according to the joint statement of these persons, these state leaders of May 27. So far, we have committed ourselves, and the President of Ukraine is doing so. And we've made all the necessary laws. And now you're doing this by deliberately stalling today's session, and now you're having a long discussion, you're taking time. You are encouraged to take a constructive approach to solving the political crisis, not escalation and tension. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u106	The question is to the reporter? Sign up for questions. Váchaslav Anatoliyovich, please write down the questions. Six minutes per question. It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u107	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The Socialist faction of Vitaly Šibko. Dear colleague, don't you think there are some contradictions in this approach that you've just made? I mean, what? On the one hand, there is talk of treason to the electorate. On the other hand, the responsibility lies with the political power in front of the party. How do you think today can be linked that part of the small electorate and the people today can take such responsibilities upon themselves when that MP who is elected in the end by the people is to be accountable not to the people, but to the part that represents a political power. Isn't there a narrowing of democracy today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u108	Dear Mr. Vitalia, Ukraine’s national deputy, certainly should be accountable to the people, but it was not in the abstract vote of the entire Ukrainian people, but rather by a particular elector of a particular political power. If he betrayed this political power through the transition, for example from coalition to opposition, and his power in coalition or opposition to coalition, as is more often the case, and his power in opposition, such a deputy should inevitably lose the parliamentary mandate and the voters who voted in favour of him will applaud such a decision by his political power.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u109	Please, Rajiewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u110	The rapporteur of this bill has now declared his true intentions and intentions to the entire Ukrainian society and to the whole nation. They want, as it has been said today, to place on the whole society a veil of their troubles and to make them think only what they want. Now, essentially, a specific question. Mr. Kirilenko, do you not consider it necessary to uphold such principles of an imperative mandate, to take and select to Parliament only party leaders who are in our society? And then they would take and form a parliament. Thank you for your attention. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u111	Mr. Radziewsky, perhaps by your question, you have made your secret dreams known.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u112	I ask you to answer essentially questions. And if you don't answer, say you can't answer or you don't want to. Jakimenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u113	I'd like to give Stoyan a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u114	Mr. Kirilenko, well, you're claiming your party is a European-type party. In paragraph 9, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe strongly condemned the imperative mandate. How will this tie your views of the democratic party to this condemnation? And second moment. Here you write about the fact that only the political party has the right to suspend the mandate in time and you continue to write your motives. Explain to me the motive, why can you stop authorizing a deputy for position or the actual opposition of factions? What does "actual opposition" mean? Is it just that he didn't put his tie on, or did he say it at the time, or did you just not want to have this person on the list? Explain to me this, well, legal norm "actual resistance to fractional activity"? Does this not mean that you will change as the gloves of the deputies of your factions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u115	Dear Mr. Stoyan, we believe that the actual opposition to the activities of its faction is when a national MP, a member of a particular faction systematically and repeatedly votes against the decisions of the factions that are required to execute. For example, the decision to run for office of prime minister, such as the decision to run for office of the Supreme Council, e.g. the decision to approve the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that is to say, it refers only to the principled decisions that are binding on all members of the factions. With regard to our attitude toward an imperative or representative mandate, I answered the report on the bill. On the other hand, I think the question is open, because if you read carefully the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the Ukrainian question, you will also find that the path of successive parliamentary elections is acceptable and common to all European developed democracies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u116	Valentina Matthew, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u117	Thank you. I want to remind you, colleague, something. You've talked a lot here about whether the opposition together or perhaps through the President's leadership is fulfilling all of its agreements. Thus, I should point out to all fellow members of the National Deputies that paragraph three of the joint statement is provided for, quote: “Acknowledgment that the successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine are held in accordance with the President's decree on the basis of part two of article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” That's where all of us need your long-awaited more than 150 applications. And the next fourth item is the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of appropriate legislative acts that could help us to carry out, if any, in turn the election of the national MPs. So where you speak honestly and where you speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u118	Dear colleague Matthew, the order of the items does not mean order of action. [[B in m in s a l in]] Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine must first adopt all the bills that unlock the agreed participation of all political factions in Parliament. First, changes to the Elections Act should be adopted, once; changes to the "On the Status of the People's Deputy" Act, so that there is no bribery of deputies and political corruption in the Supreme Council of the next call. Two. And finally, Janukovic's cabinet has to draft a bill to finance the parliamentary elections. Three. After the legislative base is ready, we'll register everything as you say, statements by the national MPs that they will terminate their powers on a permanent basis. And after that, the Supreme Council will lose its authority. Be patient!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u119	Have a seat, please. So, please, Bill 3582-1. Boki Ivan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u120	Because I am 7 last minutes of the time, which were graciously given to us by the emperor of all Ukraine by Victor Yushchenk. So I'm not going to go to the mentorship of the resonator who follows our President's previous reporter, and I'm going to report briefly, dryly and clearly what is at the heart of our bill with Rajis Bogotirová. What's the point? It's about setting up a few fundamental points on several of the same principles again. the status of the People's Deputy. This is primarily the case in article 4 on complementarities. about not entering. What is not the national MP elected by the political party? Or the block. What do you think is such a nonparticipation? This sets out points such as not signing a written report on the formation of MPs by a national MP. the MPs' factions of the political party and the entry of the National Deputies into the MP factions, I'm short-talking from the political party or the bloc; failure by the national MPs on the day he took the oath of personal written declaration of membership of the respective MP in the event of a person's registration by the National MP. And what is the exit of the national MP from the MP's political party or Block. The reasons for this are: the submission of a personal written declaration to the National Deputies on the withdrawal from the political party by the MPs, the submission of a personal written declaration to the National Deputies of membership in other MP factions, and the addition of an association without an appropriate decision by the MPs to the coalition or opposition. The second part of article 5 deals with the addition of five new parts, namely, the content that they are developing, in effect, of the question of the termination of the authority of the national deputy. The point is that the decision to terminate for a term on the basis of predetermined reasons is taken by the higher governing body of the relevant political party or by the constituency block, the election list of which was chosen by the national deputy with the conditions provided for in the preceding article, supplemented by paragraph 7. Also, the question of a permanent suspension of powers is being considered at a meeting of a senior political party governing body or an interparty assembly. Provided that the national deputy reports it no later than one day before the day of the political party or interparty assembly. A mechanism is further defined when the political party is obliged to submit documents no later than the next day, following the decision made to the Central Electoral Commission and the responsibility of the Central Electoral Commission to the written request of the national deputy for which the decision to terminate its credentials has been made, but not later than the next day to provide him with a copy of the documents. And the right, the right of a national MP who has been deprived of his authority, to sue the court for that decision in the order established by the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine. Article 13-1 specifies the rights of a national MP as a member of the MP’s faction. It is made clear that a national MP is only part of a political party that he was elected as a national deputy and that a national deputy can be a member of only one MP. And an important addition, we believe, is part 18 of article 20. The situation is that the reimbursement of expenses associated with the return to the residence of national deputies, members of families whose mandates have been suspended for a period of time, i.e. they do not extend to these national deputies. Actually, that's it. In addition to changing specific items, numbering and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u121	Is there a question for John Sidorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u122	Actually, I made a deal, I think. Just one minute left until the end of the century.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u123	Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u124	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear John Sidorovich, I am reading in your particular bill where you are the author, and you have such a sentence that the personal written statements provided for in this paragraph are submitted to the Supreme Council's apparatus and cannot be revoked. For me, that means that before party lists, faction leader, let's say the future or party manager, I'm not talking about other things that arise financially, but they're just going to collect statements, and then these statements will serve at the right time, at the right time. And then there was, you know, there was always, there was a right, let's say, there was an application last night, there was a sleepover, and he thinks he should be called it off by morning. How democratic is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u125	I'm asking for your attention. Take it easy. Take it easy, please. Eugene Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u126	Alexander Petrovich, I think we can argue about, say, these positions. But if this is a personal written statement, not a statement written under duress, then everyone here must be responsible for what he submits.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u127	Bubba and Cibenko ask one more question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u128	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Ivan Sidorovich, you realize that this law is not the first and second problem of corruption in the Supreme Council. Because it starts when you make party lists. And instead of discussing these two bills, let's go back to the idea of open party lists when people vote in each constituency for whether or not another representative of one or another party, but a specific, specific representative. And then we're really going to get a new quality of the Supreme Council. Because that's what we're going to do next, we're going to talk about what's going to be another Supreme Council, and obviously there's going to be money in the hall long ago for places on the lists. And that's why they don't propose real bills that solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u129	Dear Stepanovich, I fully share your doubts. But what you're saying is the subject of another election law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u130	And Zybenko, please ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u131	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich, the Communist faction, Cibenko. The venerable John Sidorovich, in 1861, in Kingdom Russia, which included Ukraine’s present territory, was annulled. Today, in the 21st century, in the days of Yushchenkov’s Jerzac-democracy, there is an attempt to restore political stability. And how do you, in fact, view this as a representative of the Socialist Party? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u132	I've always talked and talked, and I'm saying that the reform of 1861 played a huge role in eliminating fortification, fortification. Sadly, though, she did not solve the other issue of land. But this is another problem that is not being discussed today. With regard to the fact that political fortitude cannot be allowed in today’s Ukraine, I fully agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u133	Thank you. Have a seat. If you would like to share in the discussion, write it down. From factions. And individually, who would want to? Thank you. Dry. Will it take ten minutes to discuss? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u134	Dear colleagues! The 12th hour – and the golden carriage of the Party “Our Ukraine” turned into a hunchback. And the whole faction is orange mice, they're all running around because that's our story, that's our story. Too bad there's no Kirilenko, this chronic political failure. I wanted to ask him, he's the head of the Regulatory Committee. Where is the statement of one Ukrainian national deputy to the Regulatory Committee of their faction that he was under pressure or that he was given a suitcase of money and had no place to go with them, whom he was bribed with, or on whom he was pushed? What happened, actually? From such a false messenger, the first false decree was issued. What political corruption are we talking about here? Dear colleagues, I don't think you understand me. We have two bills again. They are identical because they relate to what? Article 81 of the Constitution, you and I are well aware of this, in paragraph 6 there is a note, remember, in the last paragraph of article 81, according to the law. There is no law. We made a commitment. It's a law to pass. There's two of them. They are certainly different in some way, but not in the main. I don't understand why you didn't vote for Administrative Justice, so let's vote for this bill because we have, we have responsibility, we have this responsibility. I don't understand what's going on in this session room. Dear colleagues, after 12 hours of life, there was no stopping. It will continue. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will continue its work. Don't let our president carry his orders like a fool with a cane.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u135	Zubov Valentin Sergiyovich, followed by Bagachuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u136	Valentin Zubov, "Bloku Yulia Timoshenko" faction. Dear colleagues, I have been addressed by my colleague, whom I truly respect, Jaroslav Suhay, and the first one, who, in his first speech, made a very correct request to the Hall to stop what was happening today in the Hall. Whether we want to or not, we are demonstrating objectively today to all the people who are watching the developments in the hall, that we have not learned anything. We did not stop pouring eardrums at each other, doing so with wonderful pleasure. Not understanding that we are demonstrating to all our people but that we are extremely low in the common cultural level of the highest legislative body. I realize there aren't many poor people in the hall, but I have to think that money and intelligence don't always match. We need to understand that people seem to be watching our efforts to negotiate, so let us show that we know how to negotiate. And most of all. My friends, let's not get emotional, but let's try to find a starting point, why did the crisis arise? Shut up, please. The main problem of the crisis is political corruption in the highest legislative body. Is that not understandable? Well, you understand perfectly, and there's been a lot of talk in this room. If the status quo had been maintained, if there had been a majority of the opposition and worked properly, there would have been no crisis. But your money, your proposals, your desire for 300 votes at any cost can't be taken by the opposition or the people. It is not clear that the imperative mandate is, indeed, almost non-existent in the world. Well, there's a very different level of culture. There's a very different level of politicians. We must do everything we can to prevent all possible conditions from continuing to sell as easily as they have done so far. We must adopt laws that will not allow them to do so. And if we consider it a norm that a deputy who has been on the list of one political party is serving in the parliament of another political party, and that is normal, that is the same nonsense. It's not clear. My friends, I want to get away from the pressure of the situation. Well, please, compromise is possible where people hear each other. Today we are once again convinced here today: we do not hear each other and, unfortunately, we do not want to find each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u137	Thank you very much for the warm words. And I give the word to Bogchuk Vassil Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u138	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, for me as a lawyer, read the text of the Timoshenko-Kyrilenko Bill. He writes: A senior governing body of a political party or a political party block decides to suspend a member’s mandate for the term. And this decision of the superior governing body or the decision of the bloc cannot be challenged in a court of law. What normative documents are governed by a political party block that sets up documents? There's no such thing. I think it actually puts the cross on the Constitution of Ukraine, on the rule of law, on the rule of law and on all the activities of the governing bodies of the state. In adopting the bill, Kirilenko-Timishenko, it must be remembered that when a Ukrainian national deputy refuses to block a shield, a toilet or a buffet and returns to our hall to work on the laws of Ukraine, it seems to stop the commitments made to the coalition, it needs to be waived. Where is this, in which Constituency, in which state is it written? None. We find it unacceptable and wrong that when a national electorate depends, not on the will of the electorate, it gives orders, but, above all, on the will and direction of the leader of the faction. In doing so, I propose to draw the attention of the Supreme Council to the important fact that some factions, particularly the BUT Block and Our Ukraine, were not shaped according to ideological principles, so the attempt to shift responsibility for defining the criteria for the formation of election lists into coalition does not withstand any criticism. It's an open substitute for concepts and principles. Speaking of the interests of the electorate, speaking of the betrayal of the electorate, I would like to return everyone to the oath, where everyone, by taking an oath, swears to serve the interests of the entire Ukrainian people, not the individual electorate. I would also like to remind everyone. Here in the room, he should owe it not only to those who voted but to those who did not vote, because 30 per cent of the voters did not vote at all, but 30 per cent voted for those political forces that did not go to parliament, that is, all 450 deputies sit here just because 40 per cent of the Ukrainians voted. That's where you get your ideas! Please take this into account by adopting these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u139	Alexandrovska, please. From the Communist faction. Last performance. Samilik, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u140	Dear colleagues, I'd like your attention. Dear colleagues, in the Middle Ages there will be no path. Do you want to clean up where your 151 applications are? They're gone and they won't, because you don't trust each other. Admit that you do not trust each other. You're not going to publish them, and you're never going to show them. Today, the reporter who reported the first draft was simply an insult. I'm asking the question: on what basis were they walking along the corridors of power for two months, doing nothing, and came here to humiliate Ukrainian national deputies, and in their person to humiliate the entire people of Ukraine, to teach them how to do it. You want to remind me of 1933. That's just the way it is. Such young men themselves spoke of political backbits, which resulted in a great tragedy. And you are today carrying the greatest tragedy in Ukraine. As for the bill you're proposing today, first. It does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, the law in force. Dear, you want to make changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. We're going to support these changes, we're going to vote, we're going to introduce them, and it's going to be legal. What do you want? You want to do this very quickly if you say so, just to give a chance to think that you've passed some kind of law. You're acting contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, you're replacing the Constitution of Ukraine with your political body. You even forbid a person from going to court, accusing you of your decision in your own bill. And so, I want to tell you, fascism will not pass! The usurpation of power will not pass! Young Hitlers will not grow up in Ukraine. Ukraine will be a democratic, prosperous, legal state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-30-m1.u141	We used the time we had to discuss. You were offered two projects. I'm not going to comment, I'm going to sum it up, you know. The first project was reported 3582 by Kirilenko and Timoshenko, more loyally, than Timoshenko and Kirilenko I'll put him to the vote. Bill 3582, published by Timoshenko and Kirilenko, is being voted on. For – 104 The decision is not taken. The second project was reported, Boki reported that the Bill, 3582-1, was passed by Bogotius and Boek. Voting. It's the basis. For - 98 I didn't get through either. The same price for two projects has been issued by the deputies. I declare the evening session closed. The meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
