ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[16:02:54]] There are 256 national deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, there has been a request from the faction "Our Ukraine", signed by the head of the Kirilenko faction, to make an announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u2	to make an announcement. They are asking for a protocol that they have listened to in connection with the failure to implement the decision of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" and the gross violation of fractional discipline to exclude the national deputy of Ukraine-Kinah Anatolia Petrovich from the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council. Since there is no such national deputy as Kinakh Anatoli Petrovich in the Supreme Council, I cannot make an announcement accordingly. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments, with proposals by the President of Ukraine dated 26 February 2007. Registration number 0817. Roman Mikhailovich Zvarić, please represent the President. Prepare for the head of the Yavorowski Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u3	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that this law has once been signed by the President. It was addressed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine with its proposals in the veto. Not all the President's proposals are taken into account. The Law was passed practically in a new edition. Once again directed by the President of Ukraine, this was done on February 8, this year, for signature. And the President of Ukraine has once again taken advantage of his constitutional right and is returning this law to a re-examination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by veto. I will not even read what there is, it is said here in the very proposals of the President of Ukraine, because, of course, I would like to take this opportunity to testify once again to my conviction that the Ukrainian National Deputies have all the documents and are so carefully and thoroughly reading and studying. I'll stop at the main observation of the President of Ukraine. In fact, it goes down to the next thing that this law does not decide anything. Since the list of objects of cultural heritage to be subject to action is not yet defined by the law. In accordance with the decree issued by the President of Ukraine in 2005, such a list would have to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order to be able to apply the action to specific objects, particularly this law, but also other laws. Because this is exactly the list that the President of Ukraine is going to sign, not the same laws, but so, and given the above, I propose to reject this bill. More loyally, this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u4	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, please sit down. I don't see Vladimir Alexanderovich. He has, indeed, informed me here that they have serious issues with regard to the City Bank collection, which we have already made up our minds on more than once. But the Committee's decision is that, in view of the fact that on 15 February 2007, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had already submitted to the Supreme Council a draft Law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not subject to privatization, the Committee considers it appropriate to support the President's proposal to reject Ukraine's legislation to amend the article of the First Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments. Thus, I am voting on the President’s proposal, supported by the Committee on the Rejection of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Article Amendments to the First Law of Ukraine on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments, Registration No. 0817. Please vote. We'll support the president and the committee. [[16:08:16]] For 214 Dear colleagues. Now, now, now. I see that there are 273 National Deputies cards, and I would like to ask "Our Ukraine" to support it, because this is what the President is asking him to reject. As you wish, but this is the President's request. I emphasize, we vote in favour of the President's proposal. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[16:08:57]] For 262 262 is another whole thing. Who, in support of the committee's proposal, more loyally supports the President's proposal to accept the profile committee and to reject the Ukrainian Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments, registration number 0817. Please vote. [[16:09:37]] For 259. Copy that. Thank you. The law is rejected. We need to make a decision on the issues under discussion, we've done it several times, and no, it's the others, I'm sorry. Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the Status of Young People in Ukraine, registration number 3205. [[on support for young families, strengthening social protection for children and young people in 2001-2006]] I am voting on the proposal to support the ruling on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendation on the situation of young people in Ukraine, registration number 3205. Please vote. [[16:10:41]] For 245 Some excitement in “Our Ukraine” is that you are glad to be back at work, and I am also happy to be with you. The Draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Contemporary status and current tasks in the area of prevention of gender-based violence" is under consideration. [[completed]] Pavlenko Eduardo Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u5	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 8 February this year, our committee has drafted a draft decision on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the topic “Contemporary status and current tasks in the area of prevention of gender-based violence”, registration number 2740, and submits it for your consideration. On November 21, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine held parliamentary hearings that discussed the problem of overcoming violence against women for the first time. Their activities were of great interest to the general public. I would like to point out that the hearing was Parliament's response to the Council of Europe's initiative to join the European campaign against violence against women. As a result of the hearings, a draft recommendation was prepared, which was discussed in this room, and unfortunately, it was not supported. According to Parliament’s instructions, the draft recommendations have been carefully worked out, taking into account all the proposals that have been made and, in particular, the comments of the Legal Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Ministry’s proposals on family, youth and sports. At the same time, it should be noted that the well - preserved and well - prepared recommendations were based on key proposals from parliamentary hearings, such as the need to improve legislation on family violence prevention, the strengthening of parliamentary control in this area, and the revitalization of public policy in the area of gender - based violence. On 14 March 2007, a committee meeting was held to discuss a draft resolution on Parliamentary hearing recommendations on the topic “Contemporary status and current tasks in the area of prevention of gender-based violence”, and a decision was adopted to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Dear National Deputies! Our Parliament was practically the first among the parliaments of the other member states of the Council of Europe to hold the hearings mentioned above. Therefore, the adoption of recommendations is a logical and consistent step toward strengthening the state’s position in overcoming violence against women. Please support and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u6	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, let's fight violence against women. I am voting on the adoption of a total of 2740 parliamentary hearing recommendations on the topic “Contemporary status and current tasks in the area of prevention of gender-based violence”. Please vote. [[16:14:41]] For 238. Copy that. Thank you. And another draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Equal rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine: realities and prospects". [[completed]] Registration number 2741, Eduard Ivanovich, please be the first deputy head of the Committee on Human Rights, Nazis and International Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u7	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 7 February this year, our committee has drafted a draft decision on parliamentary hearing recommendations on the subject "Equal rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine: realities and prospects", registration number 2741 and submits it to your consideration. I would like to remind you that on November 21st last year, Parliamentary hearings were held in the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the agenda “Equal rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine: realities and prospects”. They have aroused, without exaggeration, a huge interest in the general public. This hall was filled with participants and participants representing public organizations from all parts of the country. Representatives of foreign parliaments, including Britain, Romania, Lithuania, international organizations, and the diplomatic corps, also took part in the hearings. As a result of the hearings, the committee prepared recommendations, as you know, but did not get the required number of votes. After receiving the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to finalize the committee’s recommendations, a working group was formed to include Ukrainian national deputies, representatives of the Ministry of Family Affairs, Youth and Sports, and experts in gender policy. In particular, it should be noted that the Legal Administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine played a significant role in the drafting of the recommendations. Work on the preparation of the revised draft recommendations has been reviewed several times on the committee. The recommendations were based on suggestions and requests from participants, including women’s social organizations. At the same time, we have carefully studied and, as far as possible, taken into account the Ministry’s observations and suggestions on family, youth, and sports, which is the competent executive body for ensuring the equal rights and opportunities of women and men. On March 14, 2007, a committee meeting took place, including the Deputy Minister for Family, Youth, and Sports, Tolstoy Svetlana Valentinov, and responsible members of the Legal Department. The session discussed a revised draft resolution on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on "Equal rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine: realities and prospects" and adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted as a basis and as a whole. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u8	Thank you, Edward Ivanovich. Have a seat. Yeah, let's make it even. We vote in favour of the resolution on Parliamentary hearing recommendations on "Equal rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine: realities and prospects". Registration number 2741. [[16:18:30.]] For 216 Dear colleagues, that's what I understand, because here most of the men, women, I hardly see. As you spoke of women, you may have lost your mind or thought differently. Who's in charge of voting? Matvienkov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u9	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, we did not vote on this order because we asked to see the final version of this bill. Father's Day, the introduction of the posts in the structures, the 30 per cent ratio in the mandatory office is all those things that were in the order until the last moment. Unfortunately, we have not seen the final version of this ruling. Therefore, so to speak, until we know that these things are not corrected, so to speak, we will not vote in favour of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u10	Well, our recommendations are mandatory for the Supreme Council, because this is the Supreme Council's ruling. This is not a recommendation from the Supreme Council, and this is the decision of the Supreme Council, which it undertakes to make changes to certain legislative acts and, in particular, 30 per cent. So Matthew's right. Yes, there's on page seven, read it. On page seven, no, sorry, page five, if from above, the second paragraph amends certain legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Promotion of Equal Rights and 30 per cent of the gender quota and so on. Come on, let the committee work. And once again, I'd like the committee to pay attention to that. That was the third time we wouldn't go back to him. That's right, it's the third time he's voted. If we don't vote third, you don't do the right thing, not the right thing, not the right way, well, then the situation will be difficult. Who, in order to postpone, postpone the consideration of this decree, please vote. [[16:21:09]] For 231 Decision taken, transferred. Let us move on to the chapter “For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making”. Bill No. 3276 of the Draft Act amending article 91 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007. [[on the re-qualification of loans to enterprises of social organizations of persons with disabilities for non-refundable financial assistance]] Registration number 3276. author of the legislative initiative, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Dear colleagues, we have now exchanged with the author, and I would like to point out that Peter Stepanovich has made a very real speech. a legislative initiative that should have improved the system here, which was simply a technical error when the State Budget was adopted. But given the agreement and I also personally spoke to the Cabinet of Ministers about not violating the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to record that only the Cabinet of Ministers has the opportunity to make changes to the State Budget. They are willing to support the legislative initiative of Zybenko Petar Stepanovich and promise that on April 5 we will consider a government bill on this issue. So I suggest we do this. Let's include this project in the review, and let's look at it on April 3. Please vote. It's included in the consideration of April 3, not now. Vote. [[16:23:06]] For 240 240, copy. Once again, I thank Peter Stepanovich for paying attention to such a sad mistake in the State Budget and with the Cabinet of Ministers, we will settle it on April 3. The draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection, must be included in the review. Registration No. 3266. [[on the benefit of war invalids from paying their flat phone]] Author of the Cibenko initiative, Peter Stepanovich. There's an even more complicated story here, and it's funny. But then the author will tell you. Please vote for inclusion and consideration. [[16:24:04]] For 243 It's on. Please, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like to address, first of all, the war veterans, especially the disabled of the Great Homeland War, and place all the dots above the “and” in one very unbelievably beautiful story, which, by the way, is already on television screens. This is about the fact that “The Shrineman”, its regional structures, have ceased to provide a percentage of the aid for communication services to the disabled of the Great National War, as provided for in article 13, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection. This anti - disabled action was justified by officials who claimed to be responsible for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would strongly deny that these actions are an attempt to transfer my responsibility to someone else. I can agree that the wording of article 13, paragraph 10, is not entirely correct or, let’s just say, not ideal. But at least it is not the right to deprive a war invalid of the benefit of using the phone, since article 13 itself is called: “Indulgences to the disabled of war”. Moreover, the first sentence of this article reads: “War invalids and comparable persons are given such benefits.” So it's quite obvious that the fault here is not the Supreme Council, and it's not about that inadequacy. Then the question arises: What is the real cause of this presumptuous anti - disabled action? And the real reason is that the VAT authorities decided to act on the principle of the Roman emperor: money does not smell. They try to earn their profits, even on the disabled of war, the rescuers of mankind from fascism. As far as I'm concerned, there's nothing sacred about these people anymore, they're willing to take the money from the dead to pay for it. I mean, I'm a national MP, my faction colleagues, the Red Cross and Suskevitch, have come out with the initiative to make changes to article 13, paragraph 10. And we ask our distinguished colleagues to restore justice to the disabled of war and to vote on this document today not only in the first reading but also in general. Because by the time this situation arose, we and the people's deputies, Suskević, had submitted a harmonized draft document that did not require further work. Thank you, please support this, this legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u12	Thank you. Is there a question for Peter Stepanovich? No, it's all clear. Sit down, please. In fact, I would like to give the floor to the deputy head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons of Suškevitch Valery Mikhajlovich, please, a microphone from the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u13	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, today, a bill is being proposed for your consideration to remedy the situation that Peter Stepanovich Cibenko said. Indeed, during the last half-month there has been an appeal by many persons with disabilities of war to the committee, personally to me, to the national deputies who are working on our committee and who are practically, in one day, and I, and Peter Stepanovich Zibenko, have registered a bill concerning this problem, a problem related to what is, well, a misunderstanding of such a legislative norm that has been prescribed, which has been signed by the President in the form of a law. And it happened that, in fact, instead of 50 percent of the pay for the use of the telephone by war invalids, they actually made a percentage after that law. up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, That's it. There was no such precedent. And, of course, our committee, seeing this situation, and the two bills that were written on this subject, by the way, are not entirely identical, but they are on the same subject. So I wanted to point out that the bill is designed not only to remedy the legislative situation, but also to provide a 100 percent benefit for the disabled, but also what Peter Stepanovich Cibenko said that we could return in the two months that our war invalids were forced to pay for using the phone. And this norm, which I have personally proposed, has so entered into this bill. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to what the chairman of the committee has said and what the committee members have talked about, not according to them, subjugating them to various factions. It's about that today any ministry, if it works properly, and if it's got a bill before it's implemented, a new bill that applies to a specific standard should be analysed as to how to implement it. And I don't understand how the department of profile is, the department in question didn't see that there was a deterioration in the standard for war invalids. If it's perceived to be worse. Because it was said that this was actually in the chapter of aid for war invalids. So for the committee members, and this sounded like a committee meeting, there was absolutely no understanding why the situation began to annoy 100 percent of people with disabilities. And it's been two months, and no appeal has been made by the Liaison Office, the department of the relevant Ministry, to the "Scarletman" to the Supreme Council. Look, something's wrong. They just stupidly took the money for using the phone of war invalids, I'm stressing that. So, in summarizing the situation that was discussed at the committee meeting, I'm asking you to come up with a proposal from the committee: an urgent adoption of this law on both the first and the second readings. This bill, it has a very simple structure and simple position that corrects this situation, and the committee has also drawn attention to the Ministry of Transport and to the fact that they have seen laws adopted by the Supreme Council and analyzed what they are doing under these laws. Thank you for your attention and for your support in both the first and second readings of the law that applies to the benefit of paying phones for war invalids.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u14	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Absolutely all right, dear colleagues. But on the other hand, I would like to protect those who clearly adhere to the letter of the law, for if everyone were to work and read and obey laws like those to whom it is convenient, it would be good. Because, unfortunately, it's hard for me to say whose fault it is, but look at it: the sentence reads: “The pay-per-view fee for using the flat phone is set at 50 per cent of the approved tariffs.” That's 50. “And for persons with disabilities of the Great Homeland War and War with Japan, 100 per cent of the approved tariffs.” That is, there is no word for “drinking. ” There is a name, but there is no sentence. And so that there are no curves, let's support a normal, proper law-making and vote in general as a law. Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guarantees of Their Social Protection, registration number 3266. [[on the payment of benefits. on the benefit of war invalids from paying the flat phone]] Please vote. [[16:33:21]] For 247 The law is passed. The factions. Let the people who take care of them know that: Region Party - 184, “Block Timoshenko” - 6, “Our Ukraine” – 0, socialists – 30, communists – 21, non-fractional – 6. It is necessary to include in the agenda the Bill of 70th anniversary of the birth of the famous Ukrainian poet Vasil Stus, author of the initiative Kulczynski Mikola Georgievicz, registration number 3149. I'd like to make up my mind. They haven't put it in the agenda yet. There may still be problems. [[16:34:17]] For 245 It's on. Please give the word to Mikola Georgievich Tulchinsky. Get ready for Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u15	In general. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! In fact, it is very difficult to pick up words when you speak of such a great figure, such a great man in Ukrainian social life as Basil Stus. There is a need for high - sounding words and high - sounding concepts, and in our age it is not acceptable to speak profanely. But, nevertheless, the life and creativity that Vasil Stus had had amazingly been combined, rarely having such a combination of creativity and life as Basil Stus. He could have said following Taras Grigorovic: “I’m tormented, I’m punishing, but I don’t repent.” He could also say with Taras Grigorovic: “We just walked, we have no grain, we have no grain of falsehood behind us.” In general, Ukrainian history is full of great martyrs, people who were incredibly devoted to their people and to their Ukraine. And it is also filled with tragic losses and tragic betrayals. To this day, discussions are under way to make it better for Basil Stus to be punished, or he would certainly remain free to create even more value in literature, literature, and certainly be the Nobel Prize laureate. But Basil Stus himself is the naked nerve of social life. And he couldn't have lived differently. And all of his creativity is pain and the answer to the most pressing problems of Ukrainian society back then. Basil Stus was born on January 6th for Christmas Eve. And I call upon the Ukrainian people and you, honourable fellow MPs, when we sit on Christmas Eve around the corner, put in a plate and give him a bed of corner and glass. Because I'm still calling for all citizens to be made. And those who are going to the Church who are believers are to order for it, for he wrote: “My people, by turning to us, knowing his death that is imminent, has passed away. I'll be back before you. As I turn to life in death. With your suffering and your good face, As a son, I will bow to you. And I'll be honest with you. And in death I will be related to my own country.” He knew that he would not see his homeland alive. And this tragic death robbed Ukraine of one of the world’s greatest artists. His childhood was in Donetsk. I particularly appeal to the deputies of Donetsk to support the draft of this decision. I don't know what words to find, but I really want this person, who essentially gave his life to Ukraine and his people, and created brilliant things, to be returned to the Ukrainian people to the fullest extent. And this will be a step towards common Ukrainian values throughout Ukraine. He was one of the sixties, the creative youth who were actively fighting for the revival of national culture, protesting against the restoration of Stalinism, laying the foundations for Ukraine's future democratic development. In 72, Vasil Stus was arrested along with other Ukrainian defenders and sentenced to five years of camp and three years of exile. While in prison in Mordova, he continued to create poetic works, wrote protest statements against the persecution of the Russian dissidents in the Soviet Union. In August 79, the poet returned to Kiev and joined the Ukrainian Helsinki Group at the end of 1979. He was again arrested and sentenced to 15 years in prison for participating in the group. The punishment took place in a concentration camp in the Perm district. The poet’s life was tragically cut short on the night of September 3, 1985. Deprived of printing on the Motherland, publishes a number of poetic collections abroad. The first poetic collection of Winter Trees. The reflections of the poetic tradition of the 60s contain a profound reflection on the fate of Ukrainian culture, calls for a protest against the climate of oppression, the lack of freedom that prevailed in the society of that time. “The Spirit of Skovorody”, “Last Letter of Longevity”, “The Beast of Drinking Mustard”, is a burning, painful poem and, at the same time, profoundly philosophical. The most outstanding achievement of the poet is the collection of "Palimpsesti" in 1986, which became one of the peaks of the 20th century Ukrainian world poetry. Even while in the camps despite the excruciating conditions and abuse of the administration, Basil Stus continued to write scriptures, translating many translations. Especially from the German Gote, Rilke. The last collection of “Bird of the Soul ” contains 300 original poetry and translations. Basil Stus is also known as a talented literary scholar. Its pen consists of articles on the creativity of the Uzzines, Brecht, Gote, and Bela. Thorough study of the poetry of Paul Tikina “Fonament of the Age”. The poetry of Vasil Stus gained world recognition, even in the life of a poet. His works have been published in many lands, especially in translations into English, German, Russian, Portuguese, Belarusian, and Czech. The life and creativity of Vasil Stus is a powerful example of loyalty and service to his people. The path of a man and a citizen who was willing to die rather than lose his honour, personal, national, dignity, conscience to the authorities. I'm asking you very much, most of you to support the draft decision. It's a disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u16	It's trouble, it's right. It's a disaster, it's not a minority, it's a disaster. That's what Mikola Georgievich said. That's your phrase, I just repeated it. Dear colleagues, there is, Melniczuk. Please give him a minute. And Samuel and Chechtev. Yes, then we will do wiser. Melniczuk will be out in a minute and the rest of us will sign up. Please. I didn't expect that kind of activity. Turn on Melniczuk's microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u17	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Adam Ivanovich, I address you as presiding officer. Please invite members of the House of Deputies from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and from “Our Ukraine”. Questions such as the social support of the disabled, which they keep talking about from the TV, but not from the hall, today, let's say a very historic question of the support of the 70th century of Vasil Stus, an outstanding Ukrainian poet, respected by the whole of Ukraine and by the entire Ukrainian people, which has been repeatedly discussed and voted by the "Our Ukraine" and "Our Fatherland" bloc. Today, when decisions are to be made, when the date is to be discussed and marked, they are not in the hall. I would very much like them to express their opinion and still go to work in the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u18	Thank you. They're out of the field. They went out into the field. Yeah, five minutes. Please, one minute from Miroshnichenko. A helicopter to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u19	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm handing over the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u20	Hanna Herman would've gotten it anyway, but it'll be quicker. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u21	I'd like to express the opinion of the entire faction of the Party of Regions and assure my colleague from "Our Ukraine" that we don't have to look for words for us to support Stus because we know that the Donetsk land gives Ukraine, indeed, great sons. We will support you, but you can try to find words for your colleagues so that they can at least come back and support you for such a noble cause. I urge everyone to vote in favour of this ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u22	Katerina Samuelk. Get ready, Shibka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u23	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine First of all, Adam Ivanovich, we really need to figure out what kind of dates we're going to give, what dates we're going to make, what dates we're going to date there at the level of creative societies and all that. Well, let's put this in order. You can say a lot of beautiful things, but you have to say it. And other things. I'm talking to a colleague who presented us with a ruling on the Jubilee. Please, if you are talking about morality and turning to the faction of “Regions”, please tell us whether you and your faction have given up morally, which has not voted in favour of those bills that deal with the social protection of the disabled of the Great Homeland War. What Is Most Holy? What can we do for them? There was nothing we could do for them to improve their lives. And that's why your decision is very good, but what you didn't vote for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u24	He's giving it to Boko. Ivan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u25	John Boki, the Socialist faction. I don't think there's anyone here who needs to be advocated to celebrate the anniversary of a brilliant word artist like Basil Stus. Basil Stus is the great holiness of the Ukrainian people, and he stands in the ranks of great poets of the 20th century, such as Paul Titchin, Maxim Rilski, Andri Malisko, Lena Kostenko and Basil Stus. And that's why I think we're all voting unanimously for this Jubilee to be marked at a high state level, first of all. And again, I can't help but think that today there are no representatives of "Our Ukraine" and "Julia Timoshenko" who would have, I think, voted first to celebrate Vasil Stus's Jubilee. I'm sorry. That there is no Vladimir Yavorowski here. I don't think he, the head of the Writer's Society, is taking revenge on Vasilev Stus for hating him with all his soul fibers. But I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u26	Pomorenko Georgie, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u27	Adam Ivanovich, Catherine Samuel, did not conclude. Yeah, let's keep it going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u28	Give her a chance to continue. Samuel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u29	Thank you very much. Of course I wasn't waiting, but I want to continue my speech and I want to say. Where, then, can you tell me the outstanding writers of today? Where are the leaders of creative communities who say that poetry, science, spirituality are forgotten today? Where's Taran? [[Terra]] Where's Les Tanjuk? Where's Vladimir Yavorowski? Where are all the others who say they are the conscience and soul of the nation? I want to say that we must be honest with the people of Ukraine. And I want to say it again. Forgive you for not supporting the disabled will never be. People with disabilities of the Great Homeland War.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u30	Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u31	Vladimir Karpuk, "Our Ukraine". The light name of Vasil Stus does not need a sense of meaning in the teachings of the great Ukrainian educators, who are still trying to teach as well as who to love Ukraine. Let's think about Stu. He was a soft, intelligent, mild - tempered man on the outside, but he was a man of real courage and mightier than a scream. And he proved his life. I think it is for those who are learning very much to learn from Stus and to celebrate his son, Dmitri Shevchenk's prize, that is another respect for the Ukrainian people and the power of that light name. And I think we don't have to teach anyone, we vote together, and then we'll clarify all the circumstances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u32	Question completed. I'm voting on the decree marking the 70th anniversary of the great Ukrainian poet Vasil Stus. Registration number 3149. Please vote. [[16:48:36]] For 277 Decision taken. Dear colleagues. Now, now. The factions, please. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 6, “Our Ukraine” – 51, Socialists – 29, Communists – 0, “Afterfractional” - 6. I'd like to pay attention to Catherine Samuel's speech. She sounded what we talked about at the last meeting of the Conciliation Council. The point is, really, that you and I are quite often taking decisions of a Jubilee nature -- and we're doing, in fact, or we're replacing those who are going to deal with these issues. Because when we make a decision, we push everything and hand it over to the Cabinet of Ministers. That is why it was a matter of making decisions with you and perhaps determining for a year all the dates and dates that it takes for the Cabinet of Ministers to pay attention and prepare appropriate decisions. Because every day we produce these regulations, which may not be confirmed, and we break, at the same time, the Budget Code, because we require budgetary resources. And so let's make sure that for the next year, we're going to decide what we're going to define, what we're going to do is we're going to do a list of those that have to be marked at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers at the level of the state. And it is desirable that you and I accept this before the adoption of the Budget Resolution or along with the Budget Resolution, that is, in the first half of the year. When Kabmin is already drafting a budget bill so he can count on it, because our rulings can in many cases be simply by decrees that are not supported materially. A daily draft of the Act on State Support Measures and Promoting the Development of Mineral Fertilizers in Ukraine, registration number 3197, should be included in the agenda. It's an extremely relevant law. Please be supportive. Vote. [[16:51:01]] For 242 242 national deputies supported this idea, so let's move on to the discussion. Please, Kunchenko Alexei Petrovich is the author of the legislative initiative. Prepare Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters, you are now invited to consider the draft law on State support measures and promotion of mineral fertilizer production in Ukraine. The need to enact such a law is due to very serious reasons and its consequences pose a threat to the chemical industry and the economy in Ukraine as a whole. Due to the rise in the price of natural gas since 2006, and especially since the first January 2007, 6 of Ukraine's leading chemical enterprises, targeting fertilizers, have been on the verge of collapse. For these enterprises, namely, Dneprodjski Niott, NNZOT, Cherkassky “Azot”, Rowenski “Azot”, Gorlovsky “Styrol” and Odessy “Natural Gas” are the main technological raw materials and can be replaced with another kind of raw material, virtually impossible. The total gas consumption by these enterprises per year is about 8 billion cubic metres. These chemical enterprises define the overall financial and economic activities of the entire chemical industry in Ukraine. They account for about 40 per cent of chemical production and exports of chemicals. These enterprises account for 70 per cent of the public budget. At the current price of natural gas, $180-190 for 1,000 cubic metres per VAT plant and its likely increase to mid-European level, our domestic chemical enterprises, whose natural gas costs between 50 and 80 per cent, will not withstand any competition and will simply be halted. Enterprises with an equipment life of more than 30 or more than 50 years are in urgent need of indigenous reconstruction and re-arms. They need modern equipment, new energy-saving technologies. It takes a lot of money, and the main thing is time. I would like to recall that around these enterprises there are some 200,000 jobs. They're builders, builders. A number of these enterprises are urban and 70 per cent are local budget fillers. It's Gorlovka, Severodonetsk, Rowno, Dneprodyrdrynsk. Today, these enterprises can earn money. Investment will also be attracted. And here's the problem over time. Chemical enterprises producing mineral fertilizers need State support more than ever. This is what the bill proposed to your attention is all about. The main objective of the Act on State Support Measures and Promoting the Development of Mineral Fertilizers in Ukraine is to minimize the negative impact on the development of the chemical industry and to increase the price of natural gas. The draft law provides for the development of measures aimed at mitigating the negative economic effects on the chemical industry, ensuring the country's food security, creating an enabling environment for attracting the investments needed to upgrade and modernise core assets with the introduction of modern energy-saving technologies. Among the main areas of public support and promotion for the production of the mineral fertilizers proposed by our bill and the provision by the State of subsidies to producers of plant origin for the acquisition of mineral fertilizers of domestic production, including if they are purchased for their own agricultural needs. Grants for producers of agricultural products of plant origin, subject to the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, will be provided under the relevant section of the Law on State Support for Agriculture in Ukraine. For us, it is very important that our nitrogen fertilizers are sold on the internal market, using our Ukrainian crops. The logic here is clear and simple: if Ukrainian fields are treated with high-quality domestic fertilizers, the result will be appropriate. And the last. Before the law was considered in the sessional room, we held serious consultations, held a number of joint meetings in the Cabinet of Ministers, with Deputy Prime Minister Kluev Andrey Petrovic, with the participation of the Ministry of Industrial Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Ukraine. And from the authors, I thank First Deputy Prime Minister Azarov, Deputy Prime Minister Kluev for his practical assistance. Practically everything that has been introduced into the draft law is agreed upon and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. He would therefore ask the people's deputies to support the bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u34	Thank you, Alexi Petrovich. Thank you and ask, for thanks are few. Let them give more money. In support. Please, is there a question? You don't? Have a seat. Mr. Matvienkov Sergei Anatoliyovich, chairman of the Committee on Questions Any questions? Please, Alexi Petrovich, come back. Babourin? Please, it's Baburin's microphone. Enough and Baburina, he will express all your thoughts, Catherine Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u35	Honorable Rapporteur! Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Well, it's listed in your law a company that should receive these benefits. And I'm looking at these enterprises, they've long been state-owned, they have their own owners. And it's a billion dollars from the budget we're paying for the pills, and that's what it says, 350 million goes to modernization. It's going to capitalize. And I'm not surprised if next year we don't have seven billionaires in Ukraine, but fourteen, who had one billion, will have two billion. And so on. Answer me, please, or dispel my doubts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u36	I answer your question as follows. So it's a commission. The working group that prepared the bill has practically closed all of these enterprises and, plus those enterprises that have not entered and which, in practice, receive raw materials from these enterprises – Crimean Titan, Sumchimprom. So we thought there were 1.2 billion dollars worth of investment projects in these enterprises. That is, the benefits that you are talking about in the billions of grevens are disproportionate, in the course of these five years as these activities are implemented, investment projects are increasingly budgeted in the form of public taxes. Therefore, with interest in these five years to which benefits will apply, they will be covered with interest. But the State must provide investors with a message that it would support them and that these resources could be invested in the development of these enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Go talk to him while Matthew reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u38	Dear colleagues, Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. The Committee on Industrial Regulatory Entrepreneurship Policy, at its meeting on 20 March 2007, considered the draft legislation on measures to support and encourage the development of mineral fertilizers in Ukraine, introduced by the People's Deputies of Kunchenko, Lapin, Lopushian and Yankov. The main objective of the bill is to minimize the negative impact on the development of Ukraine's chemical industry, to increase natural gas prices, and to develop measures aimed at ensuring an enabling environment for attracting investment in order to update, modernize, essential assets of industries. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine notes in its conclusion that it would be more useful to use State support measures for the development of mineral fertilizers in Ukraine in accordance with the State Target Programme Act. During the discussion of the bill at the Committee meeting, however, it was noted that the issues of resolving the problem of enterprises for which gas is a technological resource were of the utmost importance that they first fell under the price pressure of increasing the cost of gas. This problem therefore requires an immediate solution. In this connection, members of the Committee supported and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft Law on State Support and Promotion of Mineral Fertilization in Ukraine should be adopted as a basis. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u39	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Raise your hands. I see. Then write down who wants to sign up for the factions. Yes, Baldirev. To whom does the word pass? Yuri Baldirev, to whom? Bronjikov? Jankowski? Please. Please, the microphone. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to say that this law should be considered in two planes. The rapporteur told us first. The second is the development and support of mineral fertilizer producers through agriculture. Thus, agricultural producers will be dated to purchase mineral fertilizers. Otherwise, there will be no mineral fertilizer producers in Ukraine in a few years. And then agricultural producers will purchase it for 300-400 euros, as today's price in Europe. So that one billion, they're immediately compensated for 350 billion. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} The figures are recorded, a billion grevens and 350 million dollars. p, li {white-space: pre-wrap;} I therefore believe that this is essential for the segment of our economy such as the agrarian sector and the chemical industry. By the way, today our neighbor, Russia, is pushing Ukraine's producers out of the way by delivering the same ammonia silhouette at dumped prices, developing and developing chemical plants. In particular, Kazani is 300 square thousand kilometres away. So, I think we should learn to compete too. And I am confident that this money, which even with different ownership of enterprises, although there are three enterprises with State-owned property, will be returned to local budgets, which enterprises are urban-based and which, for example, in the budgets of today's Gorlovku concert “Styrol” - 70 per cent into the city budget, plus the public budget. Other urban enterprises are also very important for cities. Important social importance. These are, in fact, clusters of economics. That is why I would ask very much of everyone to refer to this law, but with such a State-wide view and support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u41	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, please. You can have the rostrum if you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u42	Yeah, no, I'm probably better off where I am. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished radio listeners. Of course, I looked at the need to amend laws such as the single customs tariff, the value added tax, the amendment of the Ukrainian State Budget Act, the taxation of business income and so on. So I imagine I'm going to go to the rostrum right now, and I'd ask you to have this huge benefit, or for young people's housing. Or for someone else. I imagine who would stand in this room and, even, I imagine who wouldn't vote for it. But of course, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this bill with caution, but we are still in favour of addressing the issues in the complex, the issues that relate to the work of the agri-industrial complex. Adam Ivanovich, see what's going on? 30 percent aid in the production of our domestic agriculture. Where do you think she's going? It's going to buy foreign technology, foreign technology, oppress its own, destroy its own, and we're sending state funds to buy foreign technology. I have never seen a bill in this session room, including this year that would clearly and clearly prescribe and how we would raise rural people, how we would help them unite into large businesses. How can we help them to acquire the technology of domestic and agricultural production. And that's why manufacturing is good, and supporting these enterprises that are rich in businesses is fair enough to say not to lie, not to lie to anyone who's rich in businesses, that's a tenth of a fortune, and it's not going to solve the issue of supporting an agribusiness complex as a whole. And that's why I would ask my fellow Ukrainian national MPs, we should be in the complex solving issues, not lobbying only those issues that bring, we'll be talking, even if there's a moral profit. I would like to emphasize once again that we will support this bill. But I want to pay attention to the author: it's not right, we're supporting those who are already overly fat. And to those who really need support, we have, unfortunately, forgotten about you. I think we need to get back to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u43	Tarasov's handing over Melniczuk. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u44	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected TV viewers, and radio listeners. Yesterday, a very important law was discussed for the villagers. Today we are discussing with you how to spend, let's say, mineral fertilizers, and let them come under the control of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers to the peasants. This is the third year we've discussed the development of the chemical industry. There is no further discussion of this issue. I am addressing the members of the anti-crisis coalition, my colleagues, let us demonstrate to you the whole of Ukraine and to the entire village of Ukraine that we are able to adopt with you on the first reading of this bill with the warning of our colleagues and friends from the Communist faction, and that we are going to work on and eliminate, for example, those warnings that have been made in the room today, but we support the chemical industry, because it is our Ukrainian industry, it is not a foreign and not a foreign to the Ukrainian people, this industry is capable of giving cheap goods to agriculture. Today, 300 - 400 kg of active substance needs to be applied to each hectare of winter seed, at least at the time of sowing, for example, at least 200 kg of the physical weight of the saltpetre. It's not in the country today. What do we expect in the fall that I am producing? Will we have bread? And what I'm saying today is that this is what the anti-crisis coalition is about, and now the Ledaries aren't going to work, they're not interested in disability, they're not interested in agriculture, they're interested in the chemical industry, they're interested in one job, the Prime Minister's office, the ministers, and so on. [[Applause]] And I think if we're not with you, the honourable deputies of the anti-crisis coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u45	Closer to mineral fertilizers and chemistry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u46	If we do not take this step today, no one will do anything for us to let you know. The Ukrainian people are waiting for us to solve the problems that are now in every direction, because they can no longer listen to them, and they are deciding whether to go to Kiev or from Kiev to another part of our country, or perhaps abroad. I urge you to support this bill because it is, say, submitted by experts. And Alexi Petrovich has worked his entire life in this industry. And the warning, I think we'll take it off to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u47	For a minute, please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u48	Tuck, Communist faction. Dear friends, the issue of state importance. And what supports it is certainly not a question that needs to be supported. But let's see one thing, today you're producing 5 million in the active substance of mineral fertilizer, you're exporting 90 percent. For what kind of bread is sugar spoken for? 90 percent export! 22 million loaves of bread collects 53, which was in the '90s. 22 million sugar beet content of 53 million! And we are today. Hope to help. But you did get 6 billion net profits last year. Where do you put your money? What upgrade? I understand that we can be supportive, but, dear friends, they will earn that kind of capital and invest abroad to invest in a foreign state -- sin! You have a sin from God! And he's asking the poor people, give me another penny! We have to put it in the village. There are no gardens for the children, and today we are cutting off the last penny and supporting those who are exporting wealth from our country. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u49	Question completed. Sorry, it was unforgivable. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Act No. 3197 on State support measures and incentives for the development of mineral fertilizers in Ukraine. Please vote. [[17:12:57]] For 242 Decision taken. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Let us now consider the question of the temporary commission of inquiry, the special interim commission of inquiry, and the temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We have two bills here. Bill number 2815. Reports Matthew’s national deputy. Prepare Feldman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to emphasize that this is one of the very, I would say, of the pernicious bills that have to be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After the entry into force of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996 until now, and not for the fault of the Supreme Council in most cases, the requirements of its 89th article, namely the Constitution, regarding the establishment of the law of the organization and the order of operation of the temporary special and temporary commission of inquiry. Unfortunately, over the course of almost 10 years, the adoption of the bill, surprisingly, has been blocked by the constitutional guarantors: the presidents of Ukraine, first by Leonid Kuchma, and now by Victor Yushchenk. As for the latter, I would remind you, Your Honor, that he, in general, openly disregarding the Supreme Council, which passed the Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, the Special Temporary Commission and the Temporary Special Commissions, on January 19th of last year, voted in favour of 313 National Deputies. On February 17, last year, 305 people's deputies voted in favour of the law with the President's proposals, but he's promising it again. And on March 16, the Supreme Council, after reviewing the President's proposals, adopts the law. They voted for it. Think about it! – 319 national deputies, i.e. constitutional majority again. After that, the law was once again sent to the President of Ukraine for signature. To fully understand the situation, dear colleagues, I recall that part of the fourth article of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine is established: if the law is adopted again by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, no less than two thirds of its constitutional composition, the President of Ukraine is obliged, I emphasize, to sign it and to make it publicly available within 10 days. In the event that the President of Ukraine has not signed such a law, it is not explicitly published by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and published at the time of its signature. These are the requirements of the Constitution. What? By ignoring her demands, the President returns the law to the Supreme Council for the third time. I pay your attention, honourable national deputies, and at this point, on the date of return: 3 April last year, that is, after the parliamentary elections that took place on 26 March. After that and the head of the Supreme Council of Lithuania, this law was not promulgated or valid. That's why we and the Ukrainian national deputy Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich introduced the same content to this law, and we were, by the way, with him and his authors of the previous law, a new bill. Why are they afraid, I'd say, like the fire of such a law, the presidents? The answer is said to lie on the surface. They have written out a clear legal mechanism, first of all, more faithfully, including the implementation of the President's impeachment procedure. That's all, so the two guarantors of the Constitution have consistently blocked the review of this law for many years, as you can see. The introduction of our bill is aimed at legislativeizing the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the status, order and activities of the temporary bodies of the Supreme Council, the interim commissions of inquiry, the temporary special commissions and the special interim commission of inquiry to investigate the removal of the President from the post in the order of impeachment. Reports of violations of the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of the State authorities, the local authorities, their officials, officials, business leaders, institutions and organizations are expected to be the basis for the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry, regardless of the form of ownership and the unification of citizens on matters of social interest. The draft law sets out the specific features of the special interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council, the status and order of activities of the special interim commission of inquiry for conducting and investigating the impeachment procedure is based, I stress, on article 111 of the Constitution of Ukraine. For the preparation and preliminary consideration of draft laws and other acts of the Supreme Council with the draft, our bill is for the creation of the Supreme Council of Special Commissions. Thus, in general, by adopting such a law, we settle a very serious, difficult, complex issue of the work of all the temporary commissions in the Supreme Council, organizing their practical work. And in general, I would like to stress once again, my fellow dignitaries, that Adam Ivanovich and I have pursued the main goal of implementing the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the previous occasion, which has not yet been buried. And in this context, I can't help but wonder at the position of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but rather the conclusion drawn by the deputy director of the Riseluk administration. In particular, I quote, it concludes: “It is obvious that the bill under consideration, namely, that we and Martinyuk, is an alternative to the law. In view of this consideration of this bill for the Supreme Council's consideration of the already adopted law on the same issue, it seems questionable.” Well, that's more than "legal," in quotes, in conclusion. But that's not even what I was going to say. Then, in conclusion, two pages of comments and suggestions are presented. So what I want to do is I want to go to the head of the Supreme Council's apparatus: what is this type of work of one of the major structural units? Because they took part in the preparation of the TSC law for consideration in the previous call of the Supreme Council, the conclusion was then reached by the Chief Legal Authority. What is happening today? Would you like to show yourself and your manners? Is there anything else? I'd like to get to the bottom of this. If such “practical” is provided, in paws, assistance in drafting bills for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we will, indeed, not be able to pass the necessary very important laws for years. Please, Your Honor, support the bill proposed by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. He's today, and you've seen it over and over again in the practice of the work of the Supreme Council of this convening, he's essential, and I would say, coalitions and opposition. And if we speak in general, we have a society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u51	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Any questions? Yes, sign in. Yes, please, 6 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u52	Thank you, Reverend Valentin Grigorovich, although I may ask Adam Ivanovich, because you are the authors of a bill that is really urgent to us. I think we've been fighting for these laws for 10 years. And I remind you of all of this. Excuse me, I beg your pardon. Well, what's changed? The Kuchma oppressed us by this same, signed, overpowered veto, and he was referring to us, you know, all of us in the same way as today's President of Ukraine. I mean, the school that was like this and stayed, the course that the presidents had and stayed. Valentin Grigorovich, please tell me, as an MP and a politician, you believe, in the end, that we will finally adopt this bill, which will give us the opportunity to really work on the very important problems that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u53	Thank you, Catherine Seed, for that question. I want to tell you frankly that, especially after yesterday's statements by our constitutional guarantor, which he made in his studies, particularly the Alpha Unit, I do not believe that this law will be signed. But our job is to do that legislative work, which will ultimately give us the opportunity to say that we have done everything possible and impossible to solve one of the main problems, and in fact to do one of the important provisions of the current constitution, to adopt a law on temporary investigators and temporary special commissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u54	Please, Hiccup Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u55	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Valentin Grigorovich, I witnessed how difficult this bill was in the Supreme Council. You know, these issues have been debated all the time. And somehow I was so impressed by what you just said in your reply, "I don't believe." I think we need to do everything we can to prepare this bill in a professional way, which would not allow it to get in the way of those who are against this very law, in which they are not in office. That's why I don't think we need to discuss with management how it prepared this bill or not, but just after the first reading, just accept it and count it. It's really here, except that you've noticed and there's also the right thing to do. I mean, how to be with that witness. I began to ask exactly what was mentioned here. And will he correspond to the article here in 384th, the fifth and so forth of our codex? I mean, that's what I'm asking you, that's what I'm asking. Let's sit down after the first reading, work everything out in detail, so there's no point.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u56	Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich. I can agree with you. But in some way. And most of the time, I want to deny it. Dear Vitaly Yakovich. For the past two years, we've been at the Committee on Rules of Procedure, on MPs and on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, and then in the last year, we've called our committee, we've been working on this bill. We've provided it for expertise to all the units of the Supreme Council's apparatus, which are involved, in one way or another, in organizing the work of the temporary committees that are set up by Parliament. We sent them to MP factions and groups then. We held a round table with the participation of national MPs, experts in this problem. I'm talking about lawyers who know about these issues, with the participation of scientists, with the participation of the same authorities. the structural units of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We're all here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u57	Bogchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u58	Vasil Bogchuk, socialist party. I support this bill, but I would like to give the floor to the deputy of Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u59	Mikola Garden microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u60	Santa's Socialist faction. I have two questions for you. Well, first question. We're creating a commission. He goes to the site and discusses some of the questions that were asked in the Supreme Council. And the bill does not contain the word “witness” and if there is no word “witness” it does not fall under certain articles of the Penal Code. You think it would not be appropriate, however, to leave the word “witness” and then the responsibility of the person who should give the show increases considerably. And as for the summons of the judges. About the possibility of summoning a judge to explain a particular phenomenon or fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u61	Thank you. Well, first of all, my dear colleague, I want to say that this law can't all be written as in the relevant code, especially in the Criminal Code. This is a law aimed at organizing the activities of the Provisional Commissions, which are created by the higher legislative body of the State. Everything else is regulated by other legal acts, that is, laws. This is the first time. And second. What you're talking about. I think we can make a lot of proposals in the process of further work, but I think we need to move forward. The principle of what today would have been a hindrance to the adoption of this very important, very necessary law, I do not personally see.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u62	Thank you. Please sit down, Valentin Grigorovich. The motivations are far from there. Feldman Alexander Borisovich. I can't see. He doesn't want to report. Then we will ask the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs and the activities of the Supreme Council. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, please have the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. At the meeting of the Committee on March 14, a situation was examined that involved the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fourth call of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry, and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at number 3573 of 16.03. The year 2006 was adopted on January 19, 2006. Then the Supreme Council of Ukraine overcame the veto of the President of Ukraine twice. Final edition of 16.03.2006. But it was not signed by the President of Ukraine and was not published and published under the signature of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine according to Part Two and Part Four. Article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which therefore did not take effect. Also under the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 25. On 12 February 2006, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim inquiry commission and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Martinyuk and Matthew, registration number 2815, and the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority on this bill. The committee noted that the bill was identical to the text of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Inquiry Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 16 March 2006, with the exception of part two of the second article 29 of the law, which was published in the new edition. The Committee noted that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry of the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine could not be repealed, since, pursuant to part one of the first article of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine could be revoked pending the signing of the relevant act of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This law is already signed by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part two of article 48 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the law can be determined by a law that has become invalid and has not become effective. Taking into account that neither the Constitution of Ukraine nor the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure for the signing of Ukraine's law by the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is no action in cases of violation of the requirements of part four of article 94 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 132 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure concerning the signing of Ukraine's law by the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee has adopted a decision: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on interim investigators of commissions, a special interim follow-up commission to the temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, submitted by the national deputies of Ukraine, Martinyuk and Matthew, under number 2815, to adopt, in accordance with the first part of article 109 of the Supreme Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, and to entrust the committee with the proposed draft bill taking into account the observations and proposals of its secondary law. In addition, to what has been said, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of 31/01.2007, notes that the first reading of this bill can be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u64	Thank you. Have a seat, please. So what are we gonna vote on? Verni Dubov wants to say. Please, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Today, there is a unique opportunity to remove the doubts that have been raised today as to whether the President has the right to promise repeatedly even those laws that have been passed by a constitutional majority, and that is what this law refers to. Whether we want it or not, the reporters said that there was no way out, the laws were passed. For once and for all to end the practice of re-promising, in my opinion, illegal, I think that we could make such a decision today -- to correct that law that we have already adopted, but not published, to the Constitutional Court, and that the Constitutional Court should determine, and we will justify the illegality of such a presidential step. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u66	Ivan Vasilovich, very. It's an extremely wise decision, but I think it's dead. Because there is no law. The law when it's signed, when it's signed. We're going to do what didn't become the law. We came with you into a situation that, unfortunately, no one had foreseen: neither in the Constitution, on the one hand, because half said that it should be made public by the signing of the Supreme Council, but they didn't tell us what to do next if it wasn't made public. As with this law. On the other hand, we did not see anything in the Rules, for we could not think of what such a piece of work could be, as we have now. [[Apologize Again for the Non-Parliamentary Expression]] So let's at least half of us, or at least in some way settle this issue so that there's no reason for the President again, say that there is a law and you're directing another one, because it hangs over us, I suggest, let's first take the Supreme Council order to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council decides: to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 16 March 2006 on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Temporary Investigations Commissions, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and to withdraw it from consideration. First we vote on this decree and then we open the way to the law. Vote. And BUT insists on this law, Mikola Volodymyrovich. [[17:38:32]] For 239. Thank you. There is no law anymore. Now let's create a new law. Dear colleagues, in the course of the discussion and in the report by Valentin Grigorovitch, and in the report by the committee's representative, it was said that, and as one of the authors of this law and the previous law, I confirm that these are virtually identical laws, except that we have tried to take into account some of the points that have been made in the President's remarks. This is one moment. The other one. Yes, there's a reference to science and science. They are not important enough to talk about the fact that we have no reason to accept as a law as a whole. Because once again, we've passed a similar law twice. And therefore, given the urgency of life, taking into account the aspirations of all, without excluding factions, I do not only know the position of one faction – “Our Ukraine”, but, believe me, BUT has consistently stressed the necessity of adopting this law, I propose: let us vote as a whole as a law on temporary commissions of inquiry, a special interim commission of inquiry and temporary special commissions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Registration number 2815. Please vote. [[17:40:18]] For 245 Thank you. The law is passed. Given that our colleague Feldman's law is an alternative, it's clear that he won the support of the 2815 law, so 2815-1 is not a vote. Let's get to it. Yes, we should now consider the draft Monetary Regulation and Monetary Control Act in Ukraine, registration number 3041. But here the authors, because the replacement of some pages, are asking to transfer it to the next plenary week. I am voting on the transposition of the Monetary Regulation and Monetary Control Act in Ukraine, registration number 3041, for the next plenary week. Vote. [[17:41:29]] For 242 A decision has been made. Here we go: Short - lived. But we need to make a decision, a decision. Please vote. [[17:42:00]] For 241 A decision has been made. Laws are reviewed by a reduced procedure, two minutes for a report, a report, and so forth. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the description and coding of goods, registration number 2,800. Reportedly, this is a government project reported by the Head of the State Customs Service, Alexander Borisovich, please. Melniczuk, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill is intended to bring into line with the International Convention on a Harmonized System of Description and Coding of Goods, of which Ukraine is the contracting party, classification and textual descriptions of Ukrainian customs tariff laws and the sole customs tariff. The project is of a technical nature and foresees the following, firstly, the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act introduces changes with the aim of regulating the inaccuracies of the translation of the original text, as well as the technical errors that exist at this time, in the customs tariff of Ukraine. And the second. The "One Customs Tariff" Act introduces changes to ensure that tax legislation is implemented by introducing editorial rights and correcting errors in commodity codes under Article 19 of the Act, which provides for exemption from taxes on imports of goods not produced in Ukraine, are imported for the use of publishing activities and activities for the production of book products. Ladies and gentlemen, please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u68	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, please. Member of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u69	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. A bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on the description and coding of goods was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Banking on March 13. Of course, the committee, for example, had observations, and the national deputies who took part in the discussion had observations. But at the same time, when discussing amendments to some of the Ukrainian laws relating to this bill, the committee members made a number of technical comments, as I said. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of February 14, this year, notes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. The committee decided to support the bill and recommend it for adoption as a basis. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u70	Yes, thank you. Sit down, Mikhail Vasilovich. I think let's agree with the proposal to accept it as the basis for the first reading. Now, now, Catherine Seed. I am betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the description and coding of goods, registration number 2,800. Please vote. [[17:45:54]] For 239. Copy that. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Order of Import into Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Things, Goods and Means of Transport imported by Citizens into Customs Territory of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 2818. Head of the State Customs Service, Yegorov Aleksandar Borisovich Please prepare Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u71	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The project provides for regulation of the definition of a tax base for goods coming into the customs territory of Ukraine in international postal services. Using the non-regulation of legislation on taxation of international postal services that came one day from a single sender to the address of a single recipient in significant quantities, natural persons have the opportunity to split the shipment to an untaxed minimum of 200 euros, with further use of mail channels for the supply of goods to the internal market of Ukraine without paying taxes. The adoption of the bill provides for the possibility of taxation of international postal services on general grounds. The adoption of the law will lead to the abolition of the tax evasion scheme and the increase in revenues to the Ukrainian State Budget. Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u72	Thank you, Alexander Borisovich, sit down. Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, please, a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Get ready to cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u73	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on 13 March 2007, the Committee on Finance and Banking considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The provisions of the bill aimed at improving the mechanism for determining the tax base for goods coming in international postal shipments in part of the determination of the total customs value of goods arriving in the customs territory of Ukraine at the addresses of natural persons. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee during the discussion of the bill at the committee meeting, supported the need for its adoption and noted that it would prevent the abuse that took place with regard to the taxation of international mail that came one day from one consignor to the address of one recipient in the volumes noted. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of February 15, this year, notes that the first reading of the bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. The committee proposes to support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u74	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u76	Have a seat, please. Representative of President Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I will also take advantage of the possibility of being listened to by the Ukrainian people, of turning to the Ukrainian citizens about this bill, because it's not really what it says here. The President of Ukraine believes that it is necessary to express his position regarding the Government's position to consider the Supreme Council of Ukraine because this law directly applies to the rights and freedoms of our citizens. The bill proposes to introduce a more stringent mechanism for taxation of goods that are addressed to citizens of international postal services. In doing so, the government argues that individual individuals, using the unregulated Ukrainian legislation on the taxation of international postal services that came one day from one sender to one recipient in large quantities, have the potential to use postal channels for commercial activity in the internal market of Ukraine. However, the accompanying material to the bill does not contain convincing arguments and evidence, according to the President of Ukraine, that the transactions that are being recorded are, I remind you, between 200 and 1000 euros. I'd like to say it again, from 200 to 1,000 euros. Indeed, they are systemic in nature and are seriously damaging to the economic interests of the State. Nor is there any information on the impact of this legislative innovation on the filling of the income portion of Ukraine’s national budget. The President of Ukraine also points out that the project under regulation is one of the priority areas for adapting Ukraine's legislation to the legislation of the EES. Meanwhile, EU legislation does not provide for a similar mechanism for taxation of international postal services. It should also be noted that the Aki Comuniiter project does not contain any reference to the relevant acts of the European Union. In view of what has been said, the President of Ukraine cannot support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u78	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Shall we vote? Let's do it. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Law on the Order of Imports, Transfer to Ukraine, Customs and Taxation of Personal Goods, Goods and Means of Transport which are Imported are transferred by citizens to the customs territory of Ukraine. Registration number 2818. Please be supportive. [[17:51:52]] For 243 Copy that. Please note the proposals made by the representative of the President when working on the second reading. I'm continuing the meeting for 15 minutes. It's under review. Dear colleagues, we had a bit of a break today for half an hour, so we'll do 15 later. Huh? Was there a heavy vote? Draft Act on Amendments to Ukraine's "One Customs Tariff" Act. [[on taxation of goods of Ukrainian origin at import duty rates]] Registration number 2841. Head of the State Customs Service, Alexander Borisovich Yegorov, please. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The project is designed to amend articles 8 and 19 of the Ukrainian Single Customs Tariff Act. In particular, article 8 of the current law is complemented by the legislation on taxation of goods of Ukrainian origin imported into the customs territory of Ukraine at import duty rates. Why? Ukraine's Act on "On the Operation with Tax Commodity" in External Economic Relations has prepared a product that can be used to implement the customs territory of Ukraine on the condition that import duties are paid at the duty rates in Ukraine. At the same time, in accordance with article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Single Customs Tariff, goods and other items that come from the customs territory of Ukraine and are imported back into the territory without processing or processing. Thus, there is a tax evasion scheme by exporting the product produced from the duty source and then re-importing into the customs territory without being subject to import duties. Thus, during the past four years, such goods of Ukrainian origin have been imported into Ukraine for $112 million with import duties. The largest amounts of relief include sugar and its products, meat, meat products, vegetable products, alcoholic beverages, and nonalcoholic beverages. It is for these goods that high rates of import duties are set. The annual revenues to government and local budgets and government trust funds related to the entry into force of the act are projected only at import duties of up to 28 million dollars. In view of the above, please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u80	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich from the committee, prepare for the cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u81	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at its meeting on 13 March this year considered the draft Act amending the Law on the Single Customs Tariff, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And he decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. In the process of discussing the bill at a committee meeting, Ukrainian members expressed their unanimous support for the consideration of the draft law at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and noted that its adoption would contribute to the filling of the income portion of Ukraine's national budget by paying the import duty and preventing the use of tax avoidance schemes. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of February 19, this year, notes that the first reading of the bill may be based on the comments and suggestions made. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u82	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, representative of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine generally welcomes the draft law introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill, on the one hand, aims to protect a domestic producer by eliminating existing discrimination against Ukrainian goods in their own market, to which full import duties are currently being applied. On the other hand, to prevent the payment of import duties on importation into the customs territory of Ukraine of certain goods of Ukrainian origin. On the other hand, the President of Ukraine notes that despite frequent criticism of the work of the previous government, a valid government, especially in the legislative part, is actively using the work of its predecessors. In particular, almost a similar bill under registration number 9082 was submitted to Parliament by the government of Yuri Yehanurov in February 2006. Yet it was not considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for objective reasons. The position of this bill, which is the subject of your consideration, honourable national MPs, has fully reflected in the proposed Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine draft laws, in fact, virtually unchanged. At the same time, the President of Ukraine makes separate remarks to the bill, drawing particular attention to the next situation in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Finance. The bill, which has not been amended since 2006, provides for its entry into force since the date of publication, which does not comply with part of the eighth article of the First Law of Ukraine on the Taxation System and Article 27 of the Budget Code, according to which amendments and additions to this Act, other taxation laws relating to the granting of benefits, changes in taxes, congregations, payment mechanisms are made no later than six months before the beginning of the new fiscal year and take effect from the beginning of the new fiscal year. It would be followed by the Ministry of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on this very occasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u84	So this is one of the most serious remarks. I see. Dear colleagues, then you and I have the opportunity to adopt the law in the first reading, but I would like to ask that if we were to prepare for the second one, really, to take into account this President's wish that the law has been in force since January 1, 2008. But that will be on second reading. Bill No. 2841 on amendments to Ukraine's Single Customs Tariff Act is voted on. Please vote in the first reading. [[17:58:54]] For 242 Copy that. Dear colleagues, when you and I discussed today the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Joint Parliamentary-Governmental Commission on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union, we have adopted this regulation on the basis and agreed that if a Parliamentary Parliamentary Section of the Joint Parliamentary-Governmental Commission is introduced, we will take this decision as a whole. They've prepared this warehouse. I will introduce you to him: Evening Vladimir Mikolaiovich – Head of the Commission, Larin Sergey Mikolaiovich, Orlov Andriy Viktorovich, Plotników Olexy Vitaliyevich, Romanyuk Mikopovich, Falko Vladimir Ivanovich, Haszuk Petrovich, Kirilenko Evgen Grigorovich, Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich and School Andry Vasilovich – also representatives of the “Bloku Timoshenko”, Bilozoz Oksana Volodymirirovna, Lanovy Vladimir Timfiyevich, Lapina Ksenija Mihajilnovna, Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich and Alexeiev Igor Viktorovich. [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[Region Party]] [[BUT faction]] [[BUT faction]] [["Our Ukraine."]] [[Soccer faction]] [[Communist Party faction]] Confirming all factions by excluding the faction of socialists, but I think they'll give such confirmation there is. I then take these names into account for the composition of our parliamentary part of the joint parliamentary-government commission to adopt an overall decision establishing a joint parliamentary-government commission from Ukraine's integration into the European Union. Registration number 2878, please vote. We're going to Europe faster. [[18:01:00]] For 240 Commission created. Orders adopted in general. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House is under consideration. Registration number 2855. Orlov Anatoly Alexiyovich, First Deputy Minister of Construction Well, it's hard to say which one, but the prime minister. Please, because we've already separated these ministries. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u85	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, deals with the form of a population organization, such as the merger of joint owners of a multi - apartment building and aimed at revitalizing their creation. The implementation of this form of housing management, the fund is unique to market economies and has proved its effectiveness. The obligation to create such associations is established in Norway, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands, and other countries of Europe. This approach to maintaining and managing a large apartment building allows us to identify the real owner of the house. The widespread introduction of unifications in Ukraine will solve a number of problems. In particular, coowners of a multi-house building, who have created such a structure, are granted legal status, which can have a real impact on the efficiency of joint property management, the ability to select subcontractors to perform repairs and services, the benefit of receiving shared facilities such as gardens, basements and other household facilities located in buildings, the possibility of reducing administrative costs by maintaining the house, and taking measures to increase its energy efficiency. With a view to resolving the affected issue, the bill makes it mandatory to create mergers in newly built buildings, which since the entry into operation have been jointly owned by owners of residential and non-residential buildings; to acquire membership in a joint venture together with the acquisition of ownership of a residence in a building where BBB has already been created, since all owners of residential and non-resident buildings combine property that is their common property; and to appoint managers in the event of a decision not to make a merger of multi-house owners and to create a multi-house union.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u86	Anatoly Alexiyovich, thank you. I understand you're asking me to back you up. Okay. Please, Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing. He will continue your thoughts. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u87	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Alexy Kucherenko, head of the Housing and Utilities Subcommittee, and co-ordinated with the head of the Association of Housing Owners of Ukraine, the All-U.S. Association. Indeed, this topic is very relevant to the further process of reforming housing and utilities, the bill on which we are talking. It was discussed at a meeting of the Committee on Construction, Urbanization, Housing and Utilities, and we decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that it be accepted on the first reading as a basis. But I don't want to praise this bill right now. Of course, on the one hand, he needs substantial work, on the other hand, unfortunately, he's not practically solving the main problem, so he's not obstructing the further process, but he's not the law that will really let us take a qualitative step with you in the process of reforming the LHC and creating the LHC. I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to what we now have, almost 85 percent of the privatized housing fund, but unfortunately, only 5 percent of the houses today have changed their form of ownership, and this is what the FSB, as in the West, is called condominiums. I'm convinced that this is where the main problem that doesn't allow us to move forward in the reform plan, it doesn't allow us to create an effective owner and customer of services, it doesn't really allow us to make a breakthrough in the area of reform. So I ask you to support this bill from the committee, and we will be working on it in a second reading, taking into account other bills that have been submitted by the distinguished colleague Melniczuk and other colleagues. And I think this year, and using what the new ministry and the new minister have created, we're going to make a good breakthrough with you in the area of housing-communal reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u88	Thank you, Alexi Juryevich. Please, Mr. Blackmoorov wants to make a statement on this law, please, and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u89	Alexander Chernomorov, faction of the Regions, Crimea. Dear colleagues, I would like to say a few words about an effective consumer who has just been said a few earlier. I would like to point out that today, with the merger of house owners as legal entities, the tariff on gas consumption is not 31 kopecks, but 68. This is being distributed through the Oilgas of Ukraine. It is said that Mr. Yvchenko has left, and the heirs have remained. The houses that are equipped with roof boilers are also run on this tariff — 68 copies. So I have a question. Where do we call the citizens by this law? We call them instead of 31 kopecks to pay 68? By the way, the letters are sent from Naftogaz Ukraine, by a strange coincidence, by a man with the name of the great leader of our Communist friends, to be known. I'd like to take a look at this. Before citizens can delay 68 copies of the bill, why it is happening and then adopt the bill. Because then it's illogical, who's going to go, and what's talking about the same energy-saving technologies, people are coming together. This law also refers to the management of the indivisible and common property of the housing complex. As a result, I repeat, instead of 31 kopecks, 68. Who's up to it? Please take care of this. And then it will probably be possible to pass that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u90	Thank you. Well, we'll take it from the first reading and then we'll take it as a whole. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Uniting Co-owners of a Multi-Apartment House, registration number 2855. Please vote. In the first reading. [[18:08:22]] For 241 Copy that. A draft Act amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Act on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance is under consideration. 3050 -- bill number. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovic is the minister of justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The problem that is being violated in this law is very simple, but at the same time socially significant.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u92	Matthew, don't go in there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u93	It's about what we have today is the differences between the Civil Code and the Pension Insurance Act. Under the Retirement Insurance Act today, if a person remembers and counts his pension, he is not included in the inheritance. The Civil Code provides that everything, including the unreceivable pension of the deceased, can be counted as an inheritance. We suggest that we bring this into line, and in addition to the possibility of paying the family members provided for in the pension law, we also include the rule that if they do not receive this amount of pension, it should be part of the inheritance and, like all other property belonging to the deceased, may be inherited by heirs provided for by law. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u94	Thank you, sit down, please. Master. I can't see. He's a reporter. I think we need backup. Perhaps we will immediately vote on it, and as law? It's all clear here, life's question. I think so. We are voting as the Act amending article 52 of the Ukrainian Law on State-wide Compulsory Pension Insurance. [[on unreceivable pension payments due to the death of a pensioner]] Registration number 3050. Please vote as a law as a whole. [[6:10:28]] For 241 The law is passed. Thank you. The following is the law under number 2666 amending the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure concerning the use of Ukrainian language and the definition of the status of translator in the judiciary, but there is no author of the report, Oneichuk ignores our meeting, so we do not consider. The same applies to the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 36 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, 2084, is there a Yavorovian reporter, possibly a co-reporter, Petrik? [[on the necessary defence]] Please. Peter Pantelemonovich, I request the opinion of the committee on this Act 2084. No, no, we're not voting yet. The committee's report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u95	Peter Peter, Party of Regions, Odessa Dear head! Dear National Deputies! The protection of the constitutional rights of our fellow citizens is insanely one of the most important goals for which all branches of government work, including, above all, the legislative branch. This naturally results from the requirements of the Constitution and the logic of the activities of the Supreme Council. I am pleased to admit that national MPs are constantly addressing this issue within the limits of criminal law, trying to improve the situation of the Criminal Code. The logic of this bill is as follows. Today, according to the Criminal Code, it is legitimate to harm any person's gravity in three cases: armed assault, group assault, and violent trespassing. This does not even raise the issue of overcoming the necessary defense. So criminal responsibility for such acts is excluded. This position is one of the fundamental, principled in criminal law. It's been done for tens of years to analyze court practice. In fact, in these cases, we release a person from any restrictions on the state. So when using this standard, you have to be very careful because the limit here is extremely thin. Without wanting to do so, we can stimulate an unwarranted wave of violence, which, nevertheless, will be legitimate. The bill provides for a provision on the presentation of part 5 of article 36 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine in a new edition aimed at removing restrictions on the constitutional rights of persons who may be in a state of necessity when they are prevented from trespassing not only in their homes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u96	Yes, thank you. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u97	The committee proposes to support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u98	Support me. Okay. The committee's offering to support it. Science-expert management is to be rejected. But we will be determined. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending article 36 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the necessary defence. 2084 Bill. I'd like to make up my mind. [[18:14:16]] For two. The law is rejected. Yes, dear fellows, take it easy. We have a law that we need to consider. Draft Act amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. [[on sports facilities in physical culture and sports, Olympic and Paralympic bases]] Registration number 2891. Please, Safiulin Rahil Safovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. A bill that I would like to present to you has been drawn up by a group of deputies consisting of Tomenko, Volkov, Filindash, Tedeyev and Safiullin. It provides for the exemption from land charges for the organization of physical culture and sports, sports facilities of enterprises and organizations that use them for purpose. Yes. Next, Olympic and Paralympic training bases. The criteria for concessional taxation and the list of such institutions are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. To this day all these institutions, the organizations of the base have been released. However, the adoption of a certain law on 12 December last year leads to the fact that we will be forced to pay, but this will lead to the death of the institutions in question. The resources allocated by the State were not sufficient for development, for modernization, for reconstruction, but not enough to sustain them. I therefore have the most compelling request to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u100	Thank you. Vasilyev Alexander Andriyovich is a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Operational opinion of the committee, Alexander Andriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The bill was considered in the Financial and Banking Branch Committee. The Committee recommends that the bill be adopted on first reading and adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m1.u102	Thank you. I'm voting on the adoption of Bill 2891 amending article 12 of the Ukrainian Land Pay Act. [[on sports facilities in physical culture and sports, Olympic and Paralympic bases]] Please vote. [[18:16:53]] For 243 Copy that. Please. One more minute. Please consider that when it comes to the second reading that it takes effect, not from the time of publication, but from the new fiscal year, that is, January 1. And listen to the announcement, please. I'm reporting that our Ukraine has filed a new protocol and that's why I'm making an announcement. According to the minutes of the "Our Ukraine" MP meeting, and in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Supreme Rules, I report the expulsion of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kinakh Anatoli Kirilovich, from the "Our Ukraine" delegation. On the basis of paragraph 4 of article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you that Ukraine's national deputy, Anatoli Kirilovich, is non-fractional. And another announcement. On the basis of the personal statements made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Feduna Alexi Leonidovich, a member of the deputy faction of the "Our Ukraine" bloc and the only Alexander Josephovich, a member of the deputy faction "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko", informs them of their entry into the anti-crisis coalition created by the parliamentary factions of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine. [[Applause]] On this optimistic note, let me declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
