ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system, we register. [[10:02:00]] A total of 259 national deputies were registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome, today we have a anniversary -- 60 years of our colleague Gennady Anatoliovich Savosin. [[Applause]] Congratulations. Today they also celebrate their birthdays, Valery Mikhailovich Cickov and Dmitry Albertovich Salamatin. Let's welcome them. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that today the Ukrainian people are celebrating one of the tragic pages of their history -- the 21st anniversary of the planetary technological accident that took place at the Chernobyl nuclear power station. I would like to inform you that among our national deputies, there is also one decommissioning agent of the first category, John Alexanderovich Herassymov, who has made a great deal of effort in leading serious military services at the time to eliminate this accident. [[Applause]] And there are also 21 other national deputies -- a participant in the elimination of an accident in the second category. There are several deputies who are considered injured by an accident in the first category and who live in a polluted territory. Let us and our colleagues, those who have participated and who are participating in the liquidation of the Chernobyl accident, and those thousands and thousands of people who have had a bearing on the elimination of this accident in the distant year 1986, and who are now performing their duty, the great duty, the human duty, by holding back the bursting energy, thank you for the contribution they have made, and some of them at the cost of their own lives, and wish them long years of life, good health. And for your part, you know what the Supreme Council has done and will do everything in its power to fully ensure, all that is necessary for the rapid elimination of these sufficiently serious consequences. Dear colleagues, please sign up for statements, reports, suggestions. They've been recorded by factions. It's from the national MPs. The recording took place. Dear colleagues, three minutes from the factions? Will the factions be accommodated in a minute? Five? All right. Then, from the factions to five minutes, and the rest of the time remaining, three minutes to the national deputies, who were registered independently of belonging to the faction. Please, Alexander Kovtunenko, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Baburin. Taraso Blackwall. Please, Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine. The situation today seems to me to be characterized by one phrase: spiritual and legal Chernobyl. It is very evident that the President of Ukraine first transgressed the Constitution for a passionate week, brutally and brutally transgressed and approached the decision of the Constitutional Court, which, judging by the actions and conduct of the President's environment, they predicted would not be in their favor, transgressed the Constitution for the second time by escaping the Constitutional Court's decision, cancelling its previous decree on the day before the verdict. The second time I crossed the Constitution, an even more brutal method on the anniversary of Chernobyl. As far as I'm concerned, it's very revealing. And since then, the whole country has united to deal with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, we need to unite as quickly as possible and to deal with the consequences of such a legal and humanitarian disaster, which, unfortunately, has resulted in impunity, lawlessness, and legal nihilism, which is being cultivated by the President of Ukraine today, by the people who shape his decisions, imposes these decisions on him, and which he often does not read, without doing their essence, executes and signs. The situation that has arisen today actually means that the continuation of negotiations with the President is irrelevant. The decision on this issue will still be taken by the factions' leadership, the leadership of the coalition, but before that I can express the position of most of the deputies, members of the Party of Regions factions, who have been able to speak at the meeting of today's faction about the situation that is. First. It was recommended that this was vigorously supported, to stop negotiations with the President now until he returned to the constitutional field once. And the second. It was recommended, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, to initiate an impeachment procedure for the President of Ukraine, as a person who has committed criminal crimes, does not comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, and pushes the Ukrainian state into turmoil, chaos and lawlessness for. [[Applause]] There is absolutely enough reason for such actions. The article of the Constitution spells out a clear procedure. This article does not contain any reference to the laws of Ukraine, that is, an article of the Constitution is the norm of direct action and is to be carried out with certainty, regardless of the adoption or non - acceptance of other laws. The impeachment procedure is initiated by 226 votes, resulting in a commission of inquiry in accordance with the Supreme Council Rules, a decision by the Supreme Council to appoint a special investigator, a special prosecutor to study the actions of the President, to establish criminal or non-criminal actions from the Supreme Council, to address problems related to the President's decrees on the dissolution of parliament, and 32 illegal presidential decrees only in the last period, to refuse to comply with the rulings of the courts. In any civilized country, one failure to execute a court decision automatically brings an impeachment. Actions to cover the criminal acts of “loving friends”, the immediate environment, their subordinates and relatives, and so on and so forth. After that, the data is approved, and by 300 votes, the decision on the President's official indictment is being made, and it is being referred to the Constitutional Court for due process and to the Supreme Court of Ukraine to establish a crime. I'm sure, and we've talked about this more than once, that if the impeachment procedure breaks, it's not going to end up having 338 votes, it's going to end up with 375 votes. We don't want the President's early election. We understand that any election under the most persistent Ukrainian democracy, especially early, and especially as a result of the President's indictment of criminal crimes, is divisive of the political situation in the country, but when the President has shown that step by step he is acting on the principle of rematch, rematchism, that he is not going to carry out constitutional norms, that every presidential decree is increasingly unconstitutional, that his efforts and efforts in his environment are being cultivated in the people of Ukraine, this principle of rematching -- "unless the government is ours -- criminal authority, if we are not corrupters -- it means gang corruption, if we are an honest government," and so on, it is growing legal nihilism, I am turning to coalition, on behalf of a number of deputies so far, and not official factions to support the idea of initiating impeachment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, I don't think we should applaud, but we should cry that we've lived to this day. There's very little to rejoice about. Please. Oh, you do. Well, that makes sense. Baburin's giving Zybenko a word, please. Prepare the Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u4	The Communist faction, Cibenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, an alarming situation has taken place in Ukraine. It is due to the latest developments in our State. Today's political situation in Ukraine, I believe, is in line with the approach outlined in the formula: the objective justifies the means. The practical actions of the so-called united opposition show that there is no such price as they would not have paid, would not have been willing to pay for their intended return to the very top of power. Opposition, headed by the President, is in itself a formula of opposition, headed by the President, a wild combination. Nevertheless, he was doing his utmost to undermine the consideration of Presidential Decree No. 264/2007 on the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To that end, all possible traps are used — regulatory, judicial and so forth — and so forth. To delay the decision-making process at all times. The case had occurred yesterday, when a new decree had not been promulgated, to which I would say the faction a little lower, the President's side was prepared to recognize even the invalidity of the decree in order to escape legal and legal assessments of the instrument. All of this is done for the sole purpose of preventing a legal, legal assessment of the President's decree. If it's not a coup d'etat, if it's not a coup, what is it and how is it, how can it be qualified? Therefore, our opponents, who claim to be their democracy, claim to be European elections, are actually sitting on a bitch today, because for any European, the court's decision is a sacred, undisputed judgment. Nevertheless, today there is a somewhat new legal situation that must be addressed by the Parliament, which must be responded to by the people of Ukraine. To this end, the Communist faction makes the following proposal. First, he prepares immediately for submission to the Constitutional Court, the submission of the Ukrainian people's deputies on the constitutionality of the President's decree of 26 April 2007. Second. To end all negotiations, because we understand that under the roof, under the auspices of the so-called so-called talks, the Presidential side is pursuing a completely different policy, a policy of usurpation of power. Nor should the coalition's side be that, in fact, there are no further possibilities for an end to the negotiations today. And third. At least today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the part of the people of Ukraine, the voters who are committed to the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, has all the legal, legal grounds for initiating the impeachment procedure for President Yushchenko. I believe that this situation cannot continue indefinitely and the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not simply entitled, it is obliged to respond adequately to developments in Ukraine. I think that this is not only the right of the people's deputies of Ukraine, not just the powers given to us by the people of Ukraine. It is that responsibility, that is the minimum that the people's deputies of Ukraine, as representatives of the people, as persons authorized by the people of Ukraine, are obliged to realize. I think that today the situation where the coalition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine can no longer retreat but must stop and stand firm for the protection of the Constitution and the rule of law in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u5	Thank you. Natalie Gorbenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Get ready for Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u6	Gorbenko, faction of the Party of the Region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected citizens of Ukraine! The political events that have taken place in our country have demonstrated the collapse of President Yushchenk's administrative and command system, which have acquired the futility of today, which, from a legal point of view, is indeed the collapse of the team that exists in Yashchenka today. As we return to the events leading up to the signing of the Order on the Dismantling of the Supreme Council, it is suggested that the opposition has long laid out a plan to punish the President, first of all, for his humiliation and resignation in 2005, as head of the Government of Timoshenko, for his inability to agree in 2006, which has become fatal for the opposition, for his inability to select and deploy personnel, forgetting the state and its people. The opposition has gone too far. In fact, the President was cut to the root and the State of Ukraine. What's next? Because a leader who would have such a high office, but let it be with the chasm of charisma, like President Yushchenk, that there are no other opponents and there will never be any more. However, neither Julia Timoshenko nor Baloga nor the whole world in the Bank continue to provoke the people of Ukraine into civil opposition and humiliation of the state as a whole. The President had enough time, through Parliament, to make a number of changes to existing legislation in order to effectively ensure the balance of power, to stabilize the economy and to move on to measures that would decentralize power and thereby give powerful development and local self-government to all of our societies. Only such political logic could lead Ukraine on the path of state-owned construction, to rapid economic growth and a decline in the level of corruption in the bureaucratic apparatus. Together, this would enable the President to regain confidence in him and the authorities as a whole. Instead, however, the opposition in Ukraine has been brutally provoked by the national crisis. It was legally formed by the President today. For the third time in independence, the President calls for early elections as a way of redistributing political power. Only the difference between 1994 and 1994 is that the President himself does not want to be re-elected in a timely manner. But if the Constitutional Court were to recognize the decree, it would be legitimate or even presidential elections for the term. We're talking about it today, and we're talking about it again and again. The Constitutional Court’s review of the legitimacy of the decree and the court’s decision is by no means in any way the political forces that have lost the elections that have been unable to work as a result of internal disputes. Using the principle: To win, all acceptable means, opposition, without considering the consequences, are ready to rob society of stability and civil tranquillity, ready to strike the very existence of Ukrainian statehood. Timoshenko, Lucenko, Baloga, Kirilenko, and the whole Banking area will again and again ignore both the objective features of the development of different regions of the country and the desire of Ukrainian citizens to live in peace today. Trying to paint the whole of Ukraine in orange today, ruling the President alone, denying representation in the Supreme Council to millions of people will bring no good. Where is the solution to this difficult political crisis? And does it even exist? Yes, there is. It's a presidential election. What Yushchenko is fighting for today is actually a struggle for a Soviet centralised system of government governance. But when we look to the history of our nation, it should be noted that Ukraine has been suffering from what is now on the verge of two major worlds: Western European and European. This, in turn, has also made a mark on our people in Ukraine. It's a country of two civilizations. But speculating in deep differences today, trying to get everyone under the same ridge, will lead to severe consequences that clearly demonstrate opposition and join the President. Ukraine is a democratic country where every citizen has the right to freedom of expression. The will of one person cannot prevail over the will of all the Ukrainian people, even if it is the will of the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u7	Thank you. Bogchuk Vasile, faction of socialists. Bubbles? Please, Stepan Bulba. Prepare Kravchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u8	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! After the next decree of our guarantor of the Constitution, it is time to mention the words of the Czech hero, mentioned this morning by Alexander Calagini, who looks out at the window and says: “A beautiful weather, I watch and think, ‘Is it going to be sad? ’ And so our voters, our people, are appreciating the carolings of presidential decisions. As for the opposition, it's clear. Timishenko, give power, the highest, immediately and at all costs. Yesterday, her deputy, Mr. Winsky, agreed that he stated that President Yushchenk needed to act as a Democrat of Yeltsin in his own time by shooting parliament and hundreds of Russian citizens. Tell me, these are normal conversations, the normal thought of a person who didn't smell cocaine, I hope. These are extremely dangerous statements. Why did the president go for a new violation of the law? Because he's afraid of the Constitutional Court's decision and he's trying not to let it happen at any cost. Under these circumstances, the position of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the conviction and the entire parliamentary coalition remain unchanged and consistent. It coincides with the position of European Democrats as defined by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and consists of the following: a legal assessment of the presidential decree, either first or second, or of any one to be given only by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, only he is authorized to make these assessments! What the decision will be anyway: he will make a decision in the interests of the President -- we will go to the elections, he will declares the decree unconstitutional -- President Viktor Yushchenko has to resign. Today, I think again, and perhaps Yushchenka also needs to be mentioned more often in her campaign on the Goverla before the presidential election, when innocent people were killed by thunderstorms and lightning. Perhaps it was God’s warning and warning to Mr. Yashchenk, who speaks of his affection for religion. Perhaps he should always keep in mind his personal and vital responsibility for making decisions. We may need to examine the suggestions of our environment more closely. I repeat: even if the decision of the Constitutional Court is in the interests of the President, we are ready to go to the election. Let these elections be a purgatory for the Ukrainian authorities. But above all, the purgatory of the President, which unfortunately does not guarantee the performance of its functions as a guarantor of the Constitution. And it's from these positions that we need to look at today's and any decrees. I repeat, only the decision of the Constitutional Court forces us to take the following steps. There's no other way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u9	Thank you. Please, Kravchenko Mikola. After him, Evtuhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u10	Nikolai Kravchenko, Communist faction. Dear colleagues, clearly well-respected voters, that we are dealing with a coup d'état. Indeed, the President's and the President's environment instead of the parliamentary-president's had decided to return the President's Republic. And everyone is doing what they can to resolve this issue. And in this regard, I think that once the Second Order has been issued, it is completely unclear and legally necessary to change the forms of work. First: we must move the accents from our slogans. We must say today that there will be elections on 24 June if they are held simultaneously with the election of the President. If that's the case, we're going to the elections, no, we're not going to give these elections a hard time. Second, we must change the form of mass action today. Forty-fifty thousand people who come to Kiev today support us, I think we're using the wrong way. Why didn't we block the BSS today so that they wouldn't attack the organizations of government, return, notarial offices and government organizations? Why don't we have 10,000 people present to the President's secretariat today so they know what these people are doing there, who are sending the President of the Order. We must do everything today to make the President feel that he is practically working in extreme conditions. Or maybe he's a wet ride to work, he walks in, he walks in, he needs to walk on the crossing. And then he'll know there's tension in the country. Most importantly, we need to solve the CLTC problem today. At CLTC today, everything will be done in order to comply with this illegal order. That's why I think the CIA should be blocked. If it is blocked, we will not allow them to hold these elections. Finally, there is a practice in the world where the English Prime Minister has been very misbehaved and has made management decisions under the influence of amphetamine. Therefore, I propose that today I demand that society carry out a medical examination of the President. He was poisoned with dioxin and what impact on his mental state, we don't know, this dioxin produced. Therefore, I believe that we must take this position and fight that the Decree is not unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u11	Thank you. Eutukhov gives the word to the Head of Sergey, please. Prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u12	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. A meeting of the Parliamentary delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, Terry Davis, has just ended. With the President's decree of 26 April in our hands, as of today with the wording of its contents, I personally asked the Secretary-General, one, if the Council of Europe is in the position of the rule of law and for the Council of Europe the principle of the rule of law is not the same fig tree of lawlessness, bickering and foolery as it is for the President of Ukraine, then I ask Mr. Terry Davis to explain to the President of Ukraine that the Council of Europe and the European Union is based on these values. And if the rule of law is still a European value for the European Union and the Council of Europe, then Mr. Terry Davis himself has to explain to the President of Ukraine that such actions are unacceptable, because by issuing a decree today with exactly the same wording as April 2, in fact, the President and the opposition refused further political negotiations is the first. The other one. They brought the country back on April 2, i.e. practically a month lost, a month followed by a resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that says that the parliamentary elections for the term can only be if the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is taken. But just so that there was no such decision, the President issued that decree. So we have the opportunity to test not only our ability to defend the rule of law and the Constitution of Ukraine, but we have the opportunity to test the loyalty of the Council of Europe and the European Union to these values, because there is a sense that there is some orientation towards political support, ignoring the value of the rule of law. There is no other way than to submit a new application to the Constitutional Court today and to wait for its decision on this decree, there is no doubt that the return of the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council to Ukraine today will be the day when their meeting with the President of Ukraine will certainly take place and must provide an answer as to whether he is still ready to conduct political negotiations or whether they are the last.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u14	But what I'm saying is, my deep conviction is politics. I have never experienced more cynicism and more self - indulgence in Parliament in all my years. Because the rule of law is a protective mechanism to prevent self - indulgence and foolish decisions. Our position should be based only on the protection of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u15	Gregory Smythech. Who's microphone, please? Oil? Please. Vladimir Olijnik, BUT faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u16	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. I'm sure I'll ask for a little more time, but you can vote and give it up, or you can refuse it. I'm going to ask because there hasn't been a voice of opposition here in a long time. I have no right to speak from all opposition, but I will speak as one of the opposition's representatives. You know, from yesterday, I realized that I just got off the phone with Cherkas, nobody called me, nobody called me, I came and understood one thing that all Ukrainians should do from last night, go to bed, not turn off the TVs, because at any time, it might sound like something that doesn't add any peace or stability. From the very beginning of April 2, I, as a lawyer who had completed a sufficiently solid university, the Kharkiv Legal Institute, had completed my legal career as the head of the court, declared my official position. In fact, the decree itself does not correspond to the Constitution, but it must be enforced in its form. What does today’s decree mean, in my opinion? And today's decree means that the President has acknowledged this fact. He understood that even in this decree that he had been told before this opponent, there was no shipment for the 90th article, and today it is, for the same reasons, that he corrected his decree, then the question arises: Who will be responsible for all the trouble that is taking place in Ukraine today? The president admitted that he did not act within the limits of the powers given to him by the Constitution. What? The second fact is that we are dealing with a very dangerous team that is far from the rule of law that ignores the Constitution and is willing to push the President into any adventure. You can only imagine how you can understand the President's decree, when you read it, it's written that there is no Parliament. You know, Leonid Danilovich Kuchma wouldn't have taken such a step, because it's a ridiculous and unconstitutional step. Because you can't stop, you can't eliminate a branch of power. If it is written in a timely manner, I think it is necessary to read it in time, not to eliminate it altogether. Because in the same Constitution, another rule of law, the 83rd, which foresees an extraordinary situation when Parliament is working in a military or state of emergency, and it's over, it's over.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u17	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u18	In this situation, the Constitution directly states that Parliament is in operation until these events are completed and there will be no new elections, and there will be no new parliament. The decree here is not simply to stop the operation of the institution, but to eliminate or stop the branch of authority for a period of time. Second, how do you understand the sequence of these actions of the President and his team when on April 5, he himself turns to something that doesn't exist. How am I supposed to understand how a lawyer, if I'm law-abiding, when the Constitutional Court, on which we rely, in the process of dealing with the relevant submission, joins the case, and more precisely, well, let's be like this, admits to the case of a representative of the Supreme Council, and by procedure he has to verify the mandate of the signatory, the Head of the Supreme Council, it turns out, the Constitutional Court has allowed a representative of the non-existent Parliament to participate. It must be something we have today with logic on the president's team. Please tell me how to execute an order to the officer who is addressed by the President to finance the election when he has, on the one hand, an edict and, on the other hand, a law? We all know that the decree against the law is not an equivalent and normative act, and the law says, unless you do it legally, even by decree, you will be criminally liable. Didn't the President's team predict all these things? The team did not predict that there would be opposition. Because intelligent people with common sense and memory cannot agree with things that conflict with the Constitution. And they will be constitutionally opposed. Conclusion. You know, in my opinion, in this part, it's just terrible that orders come to hell. It's not Ukraine. It's not Ukraine. And the execution of the same decrees on several occasions is unacceptable because it is a threat to the stability of Ukraine. The other one. What was the basis for this decree? The president notes that there has been a change in the will of citizens. Of course, the Constitution clearly states that it is unacceptable to go from faction to faction. And in this respect, the President must be consistent. Because when I heard him, he said, well, after he got the application to make an appropriate application for the prime minister's nomination to parliament, it was already a fact of transition. Well, he was, as he says, insignificant, and he'll show me compliance with article 19 of the Constitution, where he has the right to say that 2-3 men have crossed over and joined -- not so scary, but 300 -- it's dangerous. The President himself shows that he saw that the principle was being violated and did not act as a guarantor of the Constitution and did not immediately correct, that is, he expected. So it works, not in accordance with the Constitution, but according to its own interests, but with the interests of the Ukrainian people. Hence, in this regard he must be consistent. And this decree could be considered to some extent even when these principles themselves were being violated. Double standards. You know, on the one hand, we condemn those who have gone from opposition to the Anti-Crist Coalition, and at the same time we literally encourage those who have left the factions who have entered the Anti-Crist Coalition to opposition. I'm not going to call them names. I respect them. But when we stimulate these processes, we act immorally. Because we should speak for the fact that principles are firm regardless of whether it is ours or not. Because we can live to the point that we can steal from our own, and we can live to the point that we can steal from our own. We must be consistent. Now to the moral side. Because, really, not only the legal ones, but also the others, I would say the reasons that gave, well, who started first, I would call that question. And that's what I'm addressing to our President. Mr. President, when you took a step in your time and appointed Prime Minister Timoshenko, this choice was welcomed by most democratic forces. When you praised her well and told her that it was the most successful government, we supported it. But when you changed the people’s will and removed it, your rating began to decline, as evidence of what you did in spite of the will of the part that supported you. So tell me, have you begun to change the will of the Ukrainian people? When we came to Parliament and started looking for an uneasy compromise on the formation of the majority, and we all said, including me, that the best option is you, the President, the head of the Supreme Council, Moroz, Julia Timoshenko, the Prime Minister. And this is the option that gave us, democratic forces, to work in this Parliament, not in opposition, but in power. And you destroyed it because you wanted the powder. And you knew very well that this candidature was neither socialist nor boutique. So you changed the will of the Ukrainians because the Ukrainians didn't support it. And that's why today the regions, the other political parties that join the majority coalition, they didn't win, we have to admit, we lost, and they democratically gained that power and formed it. This must be admitted to all of us because people are asking for our mistakes. I'll be honest with you. If I speak in the context of mutual responsibility to the voters today for the situation that has arisen, I am in favour of making the elections for the term. But it doesn't work. Because by decree it's two months under the old rules, and I think the crisis has gotten so much deeper that today we have to ask questions about the early elections of both the parliament and the President. My answer to such things. [[Applause]] My answer to such things is very simple. Thank you, but that's enough. Because the President is not properly carrying out his constitutional duties. What do we have to do today? The president said so. That elections should be democratic. Now let's see what they can be. It is not clear to the President that when political opposition takes place, elections will be with all the administrative resources on one side and on the other, it is necessary to predict. Tell me, then, who recognizes these results? The loser does not admit that the courts will go, the next election, and this Ukrainian people will never come out of them. A unique adventure has been proposed: let's put in a mandate, have already updated the lists, have already updated the party lists, and in this way there are no 300, let's go to the President, he'll terminate the mandate on this basis in a timely manner. But as politicians, we have to predict the consequences that if, for example, a fantastic outcome happens and we go through the legal procedure, in the same way, a party of regions that will acquire more than 150 alone or with allies, will also be authorized, will be listed and re-elected. Will this country ever come out of a crisis? Because this principle, enshrined in the Constitution, is not created by artificial conditions, but by the natural course of the process. Now, about what elections might be, because voters need to know. If we don't change the rules, and that's at least two things, we can only change them in this room if we agree on the terms of the presidential and parliamentary elections, if we don't get to two things, these elections won't leave the situation. That's the first one. Open lists, and I'll let you all know, and especially I'm not talking to opponents, I'm talking to voters, I'm talking to our supporters. How the lists were formed now in BUIT. No district organization, a district conference in the Cherkas region, has considered any candidate for the lists of future deputies, I don't speak for the electorate anymore. I was present at the inter-party district conference: no candidates were considered, no discussions were discussed, which should be included in the list of future candidates. Who wrote it? Hunsky, heresy individually. If this level of democracy in the most democratic party of opposition, what happens then in others, I don't know. But I know very well that a list was voted on at the assembly in the same way as in the closed regime, without even discussing a single candidate. What gives us an open process, and what do I insist on? Because when I saw individual figures there, on the list, at a convention where these lists were being renegotiated, I was not allowed to attend the convention at all, and I was there as a deputy, and I stated that if there were Hubsky and some other figures on the list, not just figures. If earlier on the first list, in what he was, he started his way from the private, today he is the deputy head of the party. Some members wonder: He is the deputy head of the faction! And today it's just a matter of personal relationships – it's a matter of principles. He's one of those carriers that we're saying is "students." Why don't you go to Cherkas and ask who was doing the raid on Cherkas-gas? Hubsky. Who turned half the city off the gas? Hubsky. Who today are doing nothing in the lands of the Kyiv region? Ask, and you will hear. So you have to fight these principles from the point of view of the formation of closed lists. And the President had to change those rules. Then citizens would have the opportunity to vote both for the party and for a particular candidate. And today, on our lists, in addition to those that already have problems, there are several other candidates who were Bakaya's business partners. Very nice. You know, it's practically not who it was. The second question. Perhaps it is necessary for the President, after all, to make such commitments, to make changes to the law with our help, because he could be the initiator, to separate business from politics. As long as the politicians have their own factory, the interests of the Ukrainian people will be far away, for they are closer. It's easy to get more out of each candle and less to pay for the budget. So in this respect, we could introduce these mechanisms. On such terms, I believe we'll get another quality parliament. So in this respect, I think we should act in a consistent way. And in conclusion, as of today, people are involved in such trouble that sometimes you know. They can't see what they're talking about. We started with one Order, and now it's different, and I don't think it's the last one. This is very bad for the state. The second, in my opinion, is today a struggle not for Ukraine, not for Ukraine's interests, today a struggle for power between clans. How far away from Ukraine’s interests. And Ukrainians have to stop this process. Because we're not going to get a new quality of authority. If there is a new Parliament, there will be an old President. And we must take that into account. That's why I'm here to solve this problem through negotiations. Because in a constitutional way, according to the Order, it won't work out in us, it's opposition, it's not a search for compromise. We have to do it as a result if we come to an agreement on the early elections. It's to assign them humanly to prepare, because there's a statement today from the Central Election Commission that we're not all right in the normative base. And we have to say, after all, stop the argument. If the President believes he is supported by the political parties and believes that they will receive the same support from the electorate, let's go to these elections together. This will be honest and responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u19	Thank you. We don't have a procedure. No procedures, no procedures, no procedures. Dear colleagues, we exchanged our visions of recent events. I literally said a few words about the negotiations that took place yesterday that were mentioned. I don't want to talk about it, because when we started the negotiations, it was a deal that let's not talk about it until we figure it out. What, and for what? By the time we arrive at a result, we will be speaking. But of course, these arrangements, as you know, always remain unfulfilled. And so other participants allowed themselves to comment. So let me literally say a few words about this. There were two rounds, we spent about six hours at a table. And at the time, you know, and you see, when the negotiations went on, a new one was being prepared, just like the one with the wrong one, sorry, just like the previous decree. As for the negotiations, the participants in these negotiations, I think they'll agree with those words, I'll say, I'll allow myself to speak in a figurative way. In fact, in these negotiations, we were offered to surrender. And not even simply surrender to capture, but you've been offered, ask the coalition to take you into this captivity. And not just to be taken into this captivity, but you, with your own hands, create such conditions that this captivity will be eternal and that in Parliamentarianism it will forever be established a fat cross. And that's not all. Since they understood correctly, and the President's next decree demonstrated that it was impossible to execute an anti-constitutional decree on May 27, you, the coalition, ask us, the authorities, to repeal that decree. And not just cancel. If you ask us to cancel it, we ask you, when the electoral campaign begins, to invite your voters to vote for the true patriots of the Pacific scales of Yushchenko, Timoshenko, Lucenka, and so on. If, as it were, the content of the negotiations was virtually reduced. They didn't ask us to do anything other than capitulate, make changes to the Constitution with your hands, give us back to the President, not all of Ukraine, but parts of Ukraine, and I'll give you the election. Various suggestions were made here. I think let's do it this way: because the President's decree is literally recently published to give us a proper response. So I suggest we take a break with you in 12 hours. The next meeting will be held at 12 o'clock. Until then, we will properly prepare the decree, our reaction to another anti-constitutional decree. You and I, with the text of the decree, will prepare a reference to the Constitutional Court, a referral to the Constitutional Court, since it is once again like this, despite the reference to the 90th article, it has absolutely no bearing, because in that context, it is said that it does not withstand any criticism, and many of you have talked about it. And I think we're going to have to make an appropriate response from the higher legislature on the line, sorry, shuri-murs that are now in the lead of the Attorney General's Office. The guarantor of the Constitution has his hands scratched, and more specifically in his environment, to replace the leadership by passing through the Supreme Council. To obey the leadership of the Attorney General. I think we should say our word here. And, in conclusion. You'll be familiar with the President's decree. I have to say that he's even more ruthless to you than he was before. For if he had previously graciously allowed you to perform the duties of national deputies, you would no longer have such permission and permission. I don't rule out, but I'm more sure it won't be done because it isn't. The Constitutional Court finds it unconstitutional. Here, when the third decree appears, we will probably be banned from breathing with you. So let's go, dear fellows, now we have a break to 12 o'clock. I'm asking the faction leaders to come to me, and we'll consult on the documents we're going to need. The next meeting will begin at 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u20	Please announce to the deputies the continuation of the meeting. The morning session continues. Before the draft regulation is included in the order of day, I will briefly report on the summary of the visit to the Lithuanian Republic of the official delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has delegated a delegation to the Republic of Lithuania under previous arrangements with the Head of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, meetings took place with the Head of Parliament of Lithuania, his first deputy, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Lithuania and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Today, an official meeting was held with President Adamkus of Lithuania. An agreement has been reached that today and tomorrow, more loyally, an inter-parliamentary assembly will be established earlier in the country-Lithuania, which will sign an earlier agreement, on cooperation and, in particular, on the direction of cooperation in the area of regional cooperation, European integration, and the development of local self-government. In fact, this confirms the same line as the Polish Parliament and the Ukrainian Parliament, and this is also expressed in the Tripartite Assembly of the Ukrainian-Polish Parliament. The conversation, the exchange of views between representatives of the two countries' parliaments once again confirmed the intention to develop all sides of our cooperation and thus to influence the development of economic relations, trade and economic cooperation, which has positive dynamics. And what is typical of international relations, for Ukraine, is that there is, in fact, a normal balance between trade and economic relations. It was confirmed again in all the negotiations, analysing the situation in Ukraine, because it was of interest to our interlocutors, the need to follow the recommendations, the resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Moreover, today, during his approach to the press, President Adamkus of Lithuania personally confirmed this, who stressed the need for all issues, to resolve all conflict situations in Ukraine on a legal basis, respecting, including the Constitutional Court's decision, and the recommendations, taking into account the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. It should be borne in mind that the President of Lithuania was directly involved in the negotiations, in the resolution of the conflict that took place at the end of 2004. And that's why his position is even more, in my opinion, important, and should be taken into account by everyone who talks about Euro-integration, about the principles and principles of democracy, about the legal basis for making any decisions in Ukraine. We have to say that at all the meetings that we had yesterday and today, and especially at the evening, when the new decree of the President of Ukraine came out, and the journalists, and first the politicians asked questions about the substance of the document, its evaluation and so on. To be honest, it was difficult for me to explain the position and the heads of Parliament and Parliament as a whole, because having the basic positions of this decree, it was difficult for me to comment on what was uncommented. It was difficult to express any legal, professional reasoning on a document that had no relation to the Constitution. It was difficult to comment on what, in fact, could be considered legal nonsense. And that's why I avoided such comments, referring to the fact that the Constitutional Court should give its assessment, and we will be guided by the Parliamentary Assembly's recommendations so that we won't be able to complain in that we're going somewhere beyond the constitutional system, constitutional law and in general the legal field in Ukraine. It is already known here in Kiev that, by reference to the presidential decree of today, the decree of the second number has been revoked, which, by the way, confirms the absolute unconstitutionality of that decree. The Constitutional Court stopped the implementation of 53 deputies after that document, moving into a closed session and finding all the details and concluding that the decree was unconstitutional. That's what gives us reason to believe that the decree of April 26th came about only because there was an attempt to avoid decisions or conclusions on the 2nd decree that did not have the authors of this document, I mean the President and those who prepared this document from the President's Secretariat. So the fact that MPs today are concerned about this situation and are now ready to give new leadership by decree to 26 numbers is no surprise to anyone, because, indeed, we need to release Parliament from estimates of what is not appreciated, in principle. And this is the only condition, the only way to get back into the constitutional field. What I'm saying is that talking to politicians in Lithuania, which is hard to comment on itself, the logic of their reasoning has been reduced to a prerequisite -- we have to do everything in the constitutional field. Then there's a base, there's a base, there's a foundation, there's a building term that I would say using, a site around which compromises should be built, and so on, because we don't have any compromises that build on personal relationships. We're all these compromises, all the decisions of the law have to be built on something basic -- under the Basic Law, there's no other option. And we will apply that principle. By the way, in the decree of 26 there's already a difference from the decree of what 2 numbers were accepted. There is no more completely unconstitutional, illegal and, if you'll excuse me, ridiculous conclusions about it. That the decree regulates the functions of Parliament, the functions of deputies and so on. I can so understand that those who have prepared this document and the President himself have obviously understood the disadvantage of these arguments and now no one is talking about the fact that there is no parliament because the decree has come out. This, by the way, is another incentive for us to work actively during this period in order to be able to make appropriate, yet legal decisions. I would like us to be restrained at this time, to evaluate clearly the situation that is today, to understand that it is an attempt at constitutional order, that it is an intervention in the work of Parliament, that is, in fact, an attempt to usurp power, which is fully consistent with the fifth article, this assessment is based on the fifth article of the Constitution of Ukraine. And at this very moment, we, the members of the Supreme Council, must demonstrate, firstly, respect for the Constitution and help our President to enter the constitutional field in order to then hold a dialogue, to seek compromises on the issues that concern him or something that concern him. And to clarify the essence of all the arguments to convince us that we have today, I stress again, we have a Constitution that is recognized by the world as one of the most democratic and professionally prepared, we have a change to the Constitution, which in 2004, and later, we have received a high rating from the Venice Commission, despite some remarks about the mandatory mandate and functions of the Prosecutor's Office, and that these changes are aimed at the introduction of a European model of governance in Ukraine. So if anyone opposes those changes, opposes the Constitution, he should never claim that he has any European preferences. I think it's all of them. To whom this applies, and first to the parliament, should come out of this understanding of the situation and give it a proper assessment. A group of deputies, and more specifically representatives of factions belonging to the coalition, invited non-fractional deputies in the person of Matvieva, Chechev, Matvienkov and Zaplatinski to consider the draft Presidential Decree of 26 April of the seventh year on the permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of extraordinary elections. I suggest you include this issue in the order of the day and consider it essentially. I therefore propose to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of this draft regulation. [[12:35:54]] For 255 Decision taken. The ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- I want to read it because the radio and television audiences need to know what it is about, the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 26 April 2007 "On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of successive elections". On April 26, 2007, the President of Ukraine issued a decree “On the short-term suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of successive elections” repealing its previous decree of April 2, 2007, No. 264 “On the permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, which is the subject of a hearing of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Given that there is no legal basis for the early termination of the terms of office and the holding of consecutive parliamentary elections, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Consider Presidential Decree No. 355-2007 of 26 April 2007 “On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the appointment of consecutive elections” as part of the re-emergence of the term of office and the holding of extraordinary elections in such a way that there are no legal grounds. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been managing paragraph five of the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine since April 2, 2007 on the prevention of acts that threaten constitutional law, public order and stability in Ukraine. Third. The National Bank of Ukraine has been guided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 3 April 2007 on some measures to prevent constitutional violations and ensure the noninterference of the National Bank of Ukraine in actions that threaten constitutional law. Four. The Central Election Commission immediately submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve the legislative provision for the holding of the presidential election without delay. Fifth. This decision shall take effect from the date of its adoption.” Here's a document. What kind of reasoning will the deputies have? There was a proposal for a vote. Come on, I'll put it to a vote: on the ground. And then we'll take a look at it. [[12:38:55]] For 252 Decision taken. That's what Popescu, please, and Šibko, and Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u21	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. I propose, in the second paragraph, "taking into account the absence of legal grounds for the early termination of powers," add "the Supreme Council of Ukraine".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u23	To clarify. And right at the first point, there. Where it goes again: “to respect the decree of the President of Ukraine” and so on, and part of the re-emergency of powers, and again the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then it will be absolutely true. Legally verified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u24	Yes, yes, yes, yes. Vitali Jakovitch Šibko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I think it's in the preamble. Before paragraph one, between the words “Parliament” and “High Council” should be written: “that complete disregard by this Decree of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 18 April 07, document 11255, concerning. about respect. regarding respect and full respect for the fact that the authorities of the single body - constitutional justice, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine - must guarantee and respect. respect.’ It must be emphasized, for this is really the case. What's going on here is that what's being considered in the Constitutional Court is being ignored. We have to stress this -- that's the first. And the second. Perhaps after paragraph 4, add a new point that we will need to address the Constitutional Court again if necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u26	Well, the fact that referring to the Constitutional Court is not the subject of a Supreme Council ruling is an initiative of individual deputies. So I think we can ignore this second amendment of yours. And your addition, once again, please read it so that the MPs will hear it. Please give Shikku your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u27	Once again, after the “parliament, ” it is not to be put to anyone, but to be written:“ and full disregard for the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 18 April 2007, document 1255, p." I want to be quoted here as we do. Now, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u28	You mean the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u29	Yes, for the sake of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u30	That's right, ignoring a resolution like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u31	For Europe. Well, we might not stress the Constitutional Court, but we could make a point about the Constitutional Court. All right, let's do this before the resolution, and that's it. “April 18, 2007 document No 11255”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u32	Actually, let's say the document is now. We understand he's being taught, notes. It's about what's after. before we say "the Supreme Council rules", we should refer to what is ignoring the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u33	Yeah, yeah, that's clear. Well, it can be edited. Please, Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u34	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Stylist: In the first paragraph, “from 26 April”, the “from” was omitted. This time. Second, Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, we are. We're getting hit by a candelabra again, and we're off the paper. There's a proposal. Let us write in the order the following addition by a separate paragraph: “To place personal responsibility on the President of Ukraine for the further escalation of developments in Ukraine”. It's tension. It's about something. Clearly, it leads to a state of emergency. His position, his behaviour, it's all about a state of emergency. Yes, to radicalism. Therefore, there is a proposal to include such a paragraph that the Supreme Council assigns personal responsibility to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u35	Please. Let's look at it this way. The responsibility and responsibilities of the President are defined by the Constitution. They're already defined, so our decisions in this sense add nothing, because they're no higher than the Constitution. In our statement, we can say that in a political document. And society itself understands perfectly that the conflict that is being resolved in this way is a demonstration that one side has gone beyond the Constitution. He's trying to get outside the Constitution. And we should not let that happen. And whoever moves such steps to such an exit beyond the Constitution certainly bears the responsibility that is provided for both by the Constitution itself and by the Penal Code, and by all other regulations of Ukraine. You can talk about it in a statement. Please. Cowboy, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u36	The fourth item is set out somehow. “The Central Electoral Commission shall immediately submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for improvements in legislative security”, followed by the following text: “The holding of extraordinary elections of the President of Ukraine”. And then I propose. It's a comma to write.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u37	Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u38	He writes: “Prohibit the CVA before the decision of the Constitutional Court to comply with the above-mentioned decree.” The point is that CEVC is today asking for a document to give them a balance between the decree and to protect them from failure to comply with the decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u39	I got it. We gave the Central Election Commission a two-number order. That's the first one. Secondly, let's not give a mandate regarding the legislative initiative to those who have no relation to it. The Central Election Commission is not the subject of a legislative initiative. Do you have any suggestions for improving the electoral law? Make these proposals yourself, and do not give the Central Election Commission a mandate. I'm not talking to you. I'm asking you, I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to, say, the drafters of the bill. I'm asking you to take the fourth paragraph off at all. He is not the object of this determination. And so with the remarks, the proposals of Sibek, Popescu. We've fixed it. These are editorial clarifications, they don't have significant workload, and this will make the legal regulation ours. So once again, with the amendments of Popescu, Šibka and Kravchenka without the fourth paragraph in general, I am putting this order to the vote. [[12:47:03]] Two hundred and sixty deputies voted. Decision taken. It is also proposed to accept the Supreme Council’s statement on the situation. I would like to include in the agenda the question of addressing the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please. [[12:47:45.]] For 252 Decision taken. They'll give you the text now, and they'll give it to me. Then I will read so that the Ukrainians know what this document is about. I didn't make the right announcement. It's not about the application, it's about the application. Then I would like to put to the vote the issue of the statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of further escalation of the political conflict. Please vote against the previous vote. [[12:50:31]] For 249 Decision taken. Such a statement. I'm asking for your attention. "On April 26, 2007, the President of Ukraine issued Decree No. 355-2007, "On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of out-of-office elections", admitting a similar decree of April 2 that had become invalid. Thus, the President confirmed the unconstitutionality of the decree of April 2, 2007. The decree of April 26 of this year is essentially a failure to formally correct the content of the decree of April 2, 2007, which aims at re-disengagement of Parliament and the postponement of out-of-order elections. In fact, however, this decree has been adopted in violation of the same constitutional provisions as the previous one, and the reference to article 90, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine in support of its publication is intended. After issuing the decree, the President, in his unbalanced constitutional sense, took a step to demonstrate the unwillingness of achieving a political compromise to come out of the crisis. By doing so, the President of Ukraine essentially deepened the existing political conflict, making it impossible for the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to decide on the constitutionality of its decree of April 2, this year. It is well known that the need for recognition and enforcement of the Constitutional Court’s decisions by all parties to the political conflict was highlighted in the Parliamentary Assembly resolution of 17 April 2007. Another evidence of the escalation of the political crisis by the President of Ukraine is the abuse of his authority over the judiciary. As a result, the Shevchenkov Court of Kiev was reinstated as Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscona. This demonstrates the desire to increase the influence of President Yushchenk of Ukraine on law enforcement at all costs. At the same time, the lack of an adopted decree prohibiting Parliament from exercising its constitutional powers, as was the case in the previous one, demonstrates certain breaches in the understanding of article 90 of the Ukrainian Constitution by the President of Ukraine. With this in mind, the Supreme Council of Ukraine hopes that the legislative acts necessary for the further development of Ukraine, first of all, will be systematically amended by the Constitutions of Ukraine, aimed at balancing the activities of all branches of government, which will make it impossible for today's political crisis to occur in the near future, to be adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and signed, finally, by the President of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, aware of the salutary nature of its decisions for Ukraine's future and the non-alternative nature of its exit from the crisis situation, urges the President of Ukraine to stop actions that only prolong time and tighten the situation and resume the negotiation process. Only through mutual compromises and compromises within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine, I stress that within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine one can enter a civilized way of settling political opposition in the interests of the democratic future of the Ukrainian people, not the beneficial interests of individual political forces.” I would suggest that this text be taken as a basis and, in fact, as a whole, if. [[The voice from the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u40	I'd like to base my vote, please. [[12:54:47]] For 255 255. As a basis, it's been accepted. Whoever wants to work on the document, I'm looking at one of the authors, for example, Plastinski, please collect suggestions for improving this document. I'm calling a break, and the faction leaders are asking me to come into my office. Come on in. Up to 15 years old.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u41	But let the deputies be in the hall for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u42	And the deputies please remain in the hall for the time being. Break until 15 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u43	I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. There won't be a registration because I didn't take into account the details: the registration takes place after 16 hours, and we didn't close the morning session, so it goes on. We took a break to prepare and allow the MPs to express their opinions on the content of the statement. What points were made to the text? Please, Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u44	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, in the paragraph: “The further evidence of the escalation of the political crisis by the President of Ukraine is the abuse of his authority over the judiciary,” and in the text, I propose to correct, after the words “for the judiciary”, the coma, “and his efforts to control the General Prosecutor’s Office”. If we take the text we have in this paragraph, we assume in advance that our colleague, the Piscoon, is going to violate the law and do someone's political will and work under the President's dictatorship. We brought the Piscot to Parliament and trust him, and we believe that he will be just and objective. What the President is trying to take the Henprosecutor's office under his control is no doubt about it, but we can't assume in advance that the Piscoon will act under the President's or any other political power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u45	Hanna Mikolayevna, you're right about what you're saying. We trust our fellow MP, but we're talking about breaking the law when we're assigned to this office or the verdict. Then it must be said that, as a result, the court of Shevchenkov in Kiev was unlawfully reinstated in the position of S. Piscona. And for that there is a basis and a basis that the MPs express. That's why you could. Well, I say, in office. This demonstrates the desire to increase the President's influence on all law enforcement agencies at any cost. Yeah? Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u46	Dear colleagues, distinguished Alexander Alexandrovich! The thing is, I have a general plan of comment, I'd like to make a statement. And then it's specific to the paragraphs. We speak for our declaration of political conflict. The conflict, in itself, implies that there are two parties who cannot agree on any differences. In our situation in Ukraine, there is a completely different attitude: there is a party, an official who is indeed violating the Constitution, violating the laws, and not just now. What about the failure to implement the decisions of the regional councils with regard to the heads of administration and so on? So we have a lot of reasons to talk about non-compliance, violations of the law. That is why this is not about the conflict between us, and for some reason we are always talking about the conflict, and this is about the need to condemn illegal acts that are not carried out by them. That's the first one. Second. We refer to the crisis in the text. I'm against that definition, too, because we work with you, we work in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u47	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u48	We work in accordance with the law, with the Rules. Yes, it's not very effective because we're prevented from working, but there's no parliamentary crisis. There is a crisis in the heads of those MPs about the members, and unfortunately there are plenty of them who have somehow gone and accused them of being expelled, created conditions or not created. So these are the points: the political conflict and the crisis, I think these are, well, not very precise language. And they can't be used in our statement. Now, specifically, part three, where it is said that “the President, having seen the decrees laid down, has demonstrated in an unwarranted way.” I propose that part three should be replaced by the following text: “Since the President’s above-mentioned decree was issued during the final stage of the Constitutional Court’s consideration of Ukraine’s constitutional question on the conformity of the Ukrainian Constitution with the President’s decree of 2 April 2007, it can be concluded that President Viktor Yushchenko is thus trying to avoid the need to implement the Constitutional Court’s decisions and its activities in the legal field, from the need to carry out his activities and to direct his activities to the legal field, and to comply strictly with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine.” This is a reality, and we all understand that the President does not really want to, and he has warned the Constitutional Court's decision that he does not want to comply with it. Therefore, the third part, the third paragraph, I propose such a text. Fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u49	Please read again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u50	Do you want to repeat the third?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u51	Yeah, third.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u52	Third: “In view of the fact that the above-mentioned Presidential Decree was issued during the final stage of the hearing by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the conformity of the Ukrainian Constitution with the Presidential Decree of 2 April this year, it can be concluded that President Yushchenko is thus trying to avoid the need to implement the Constitutional Court’s decision and resume his activities in the legal field.” That's the third part, I suggest in this way, that's a clearer definition of why the Order came out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u53	With regard to this amendment, no one has any comments? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u54	The next development, the next, fourth paragraph, is developing the same idea. It is shorter: “With such actions, the President of Ukraine has in fact expressed his disdain for the resolution of PARJE.” And the second sentence is, "How do you know?" and so on. I mean, more specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u55	Disrespect for the Paris Resolution, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u56	Okay. Is there no objection? None. Do you still have it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u57	No, no. There's 18-19.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u58	Yes, April 19th is here. We were wrong, April 19th. Any more suggestions? The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u59	Alexander's still got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u60	Huh? Come on, let's have some more Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u61	So, for part five, the German proposal could be accepted. Or I wrote a few words here: “The President’s desire to strengthen his influence on the law enforcement authorities and to allow his authority to be abused with regard to judicial authority is to renew his office as Attorney General of the Ukraine of Piscoon.” Either so, or “its submission.” and so on, the “General Prosecutor’s Office”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u62	I think it's much more correct what Herman suggested, because you're here questioning ahead of time, let's say, the activities of the Attorney General. We mean, first of all, one more detail: so far the question isn't figured out in the right field, and the Piscoon will be sitting here in the room, and we're doing his evaluations right now. You can't do that. That's why. Do you still have it? And please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u63	And the last part, the seventh. So in Part Six, I ask you, we have a message there, this second sentence, if I am not mistaken, “taking into account this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine expects.” Alexander Alexandrovich, we do not have to expect our own further effective work. I'm offering. I mean, the subject of our statement is completely different. Therefore, this proposal should be removed at all: "In view of this, the Supreme Council expects it. ” and so on. We cannot “hope” ourselves, we must do so. We need to get him out of here. And the seventh part is the last, “The Supreme Council, conscious of it.”, in this context: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, conscious of its responsibility and the non-alternativeness of the only legal way out of the crisis created by the President’s actions, urges the President of Ukraine to stop these actions without exacerbating the situation.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u64	I agree. And there's a negotiation process, not technology anymore. Ivan Popescu, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u65	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. In the fourth paragraph, I asked that the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly was adopted not by 17, when it was the Prime Minister, but by 19, when you were in the Parliamentary Assembly, or 19 numbers. Make appropriate changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u66	Thank you. Etukhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u67	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I support the remarks made by Hermann's colleagues regarding Piscos, this paragraph. And edit it. According to the paper, there may be different texts, but the point is that the Sandman is not the cause of the political conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u68	Of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u69	And in general, the name of the Piscona is removed from this paragraph or the whole paragraph. As an alternative, I suggest the following. “The further evidence of the escalation of the political crisis by the President of Ukraine is the abuse of his authority over the judiciary, resulting in wrongful acts around the judicial branch of power, such as Pecherski, Shevchenkovsky and all other courts.” And it's still in the text. Remove the sand. Sand is not the subject of this claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u70	In principle, it is possible. Just a minute. The offer of Eutukhov, is it understood? Wait. Then repeat your thinking and adjust your offer. Yes, yes, Evtukhov speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u71	The reasoning is that the Sandman is not the cause of political conflict. So put him here in the text as a last name and as a position you don't need. Either as a result, either delete the paragraph at all, or edit it next. I'm reading. “The further evidence of the escalation of the political crisis by the President of Ukraine is the abuse of his powers over the judicial branch of power”, which is the text that is, “the result of unlawful actions around the judicial branch of power, particularly the Pechersky and Shevchenkov District Courts”. You can add both the Constitutional and the Artemian, and whatever. There's a lot if you have to text. And it's still in the text. “This demonstrates the desire to increase the President’s influence on law enforcement authorities at all costs.” Period.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u72	I think it's a wise offer alone. In addition, before the break there was a proposal to create a commission of inquiry that would analyse the way of pressure on the Shevchenkov court and the wrong actions on the part of the landlord in this regard. Then we can find out more about the point. I think the offer of Eutukhov is correct. I think that's what Peckleshenko wanted to confirm. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u73	First of all, in the first paragraph, I think that after the words “from 2 April 2007” the number should be given.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u74	Well, it doesn't have to be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u75	Yes. And with respect to this fifth paragraph. It seems to me that without it, the document will be more concise and it will not be washed away. I therefore propose that it be completely deleted from the text, and given the sufficiently concerned position of all our colleagues, now establish a working group and work in the course of the day to ensure that the document is true, that it responds to wickedness, was in line with the spirit, the letter of the law. It should therefore be worked out to ensure that this document is prepared seriously enough. It's time, I think, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u76	Okay. Ribhub's still asking for words. No one's asking anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u77	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, in the second paragraph of the first sentence, I propose instead of the word “release”, is meant for Parliament to say “repetition of an unconstitutional end to parliamentary powers”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u78	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u79	And if it's already in the operative part, write a conflict in Ukraine, a social-political conflict in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u80	That's it. Do you mean? Well, we'll deal with you there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u81	Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u82	Okay. Then I have an offer like this. Alla Alexandrovska suggested moving away from the definition of conflict and writing in the title about the inadmissibility of further escalation of wrong actions by the President’s Institute. That's one thing. The other one. In the second paragraph of Rizuk’s amendment on the legal accuracy of the purposes of suspending the powers of the Supreme Council repeatedly and so forth, in Rizuk. The third paragraph, in Alexandrovsky's edition, is more accurate, and which is more accurate in terms of the process. The fifth paragraph, edited by the deputy Eutuhova, who has no objection to anyone. In paragraph 6 of the end of the sixth paragraph, the words “considering this” should be deleted and deleted completely, since it only blurs the logic of the document, the content of the document and to some extent distracts it from the main topic. And the next paragraph in Alexandrovsky's paper: “Considering responsibility, conscious of the responsibility of the Supreme Council for what it must do to localize this artificial conflict.” With such amendments, can we vote in favour of the document as a whole? Sure. Then I put this proposal to the vote. [[15:18:54]] For 252 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we had a proposal for a recess so that we could prepare a decree for the establishment of a temporary special commission to determine the working conditions of the Shevchenkov Court regarding the office of Attorney General. There really is a lot of trouble. So I'd like to say, a lot of questions arise before this procedure, so I would have an offer like that. The deputy, more loyally, will make a brief argument regarding, wait for, the need to take such a decision. Since the question is more complicated than it seems, then we'll essentially consider it tomorrow at 10 a.m. to speak. And his information is broad-based, and we'll take the decision in the morning, and now he's just going to make a preliminary presentation of the need to deal with it, because it's meant that tomorrow we're going to have to put forward all the details, and so on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u83	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected voters and representatives of the media! As Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Establishment of the Judicial Corps, I must comment on the situation in the Office of the Prosecutor-General of Ukraine today. It was well known that today at 10 a.m., Judge Shevchenkov of the District Court of Kiev Kuhalishvili issued a ruling to Ukraine immediately by two Prosecutors General. During the opening of the proceedings, the procedural law was severely violated. First, the case was not dealt with by a collegiate judge, but by Judge Kuchalishvili alone. Although article 24 of the Code of Administrative Procedure is strictly defined: this category of cases is dealt with only by a panel composed of three judges. Secondly, the case was opened on 26 April. A preliminary hearing of the court was scheduled for 26 April. The decision was also rendered on 26 April at 10 a.m. Thirdly, there was no hearing in the case involving the parties. This certificate, issued by the court, confirms the list of cases that have been appointed today by Judge Kuchalishvili. There is no case in this case. Fourthly, the judge of District Judge Kuhalishvili, as the Mystical Hercules, singled out a number of decisions of the higher courts: the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Administrative Court in Ukraine, in the case of the case of the ex-General Prosecutor of Ukraine, Piscun to the President of Ukraine, on the same subject that had already been denied the plea and the case was closed. Fifthly, yesterday the Shevchenkov District Court has already refused to consider this lawsuit. There is a definition of the court, the same court of refusal to consider the action. Finally, the court had deprived a number of parties of any procedural rights in the case, not having made any notice, not having held any court hearing or having heard the parties in the case without requiring or examining any evidence. So today we are witnessing unprecedented pressure on the court, on the entire judicial system. The judge was forced to violate all the mental and unthinkable laws. When the Chevchenkov District Court took sides yesterday and refused to open proceedings, a new i.o. was appointed by decree of the President. The President of the Court, who had not even physically received a decree on his appointment but had already been able to exercise administrative authority and had filed a case with Judge Kuchilishvili. And it's not really about Saintess Piscoon or the other side of the process, it's possible to assume anything here, right up to the point of bringing the case to absurdity. I repeat, thanks to the decision of the court and the President's immediate decree, we have two Ukrainian genprocurators today, as the Supreme Council has not so far given its consent to the dismissal of Alexander Medvedjk, who is now legitimately head of the prosecutor's office. Dear colleagues! In fact, President Yushchenko has over the past month set up a theatre of political and legal absurdity, in which Ukrainians have become hostages of a free director, the whole of Europe is laughing at us, and the whole of Ukraine will have to weep with bitter tears. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-26-m0.u84	Have a seat, please. I beg you, Mikolo Vasilovich. We agree this way, tomorrow at 10 a.m., we're going to deal with this essentially. I ask the faction leaders to make their proposals on the composition of the commission. The initiators make a detailed argument that comes out of the law, from the Constitution, from the laws of Ukraine, including codes that obviously and citizens don't know very well, the glory of God who doesn't have to use them or on the basis of them to defend themselves, and obviously not all of them even know the nuances of this legislation. Therefore, the decision must be absolutely convincing in order to make it clear to the deputies that it is necessary to defend the law and the rule of law in Ukraine. So we're going to ask that question again, I repeat, essentially consider tomorrow at 10 a.m. And now I would ask you to join this case, so that our position here is absolutely flawless. I'd like to pay attention to that detail. You've obviously noticed that the conflict that is imposed on society, politics in particular, is always expressing the desire of the participants, the initiators of this conflict, to push the Supreme Council outside the Constitution. I mean, nothing will work, the Supreme Council will work in clear compliance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. And I also want to say that the situation is not easy in general in the state, we see it. But the responsibility for the socio-economic, by the way, situation is still vested in the coalition, the Supreme Council as a whole, as a body of the highest legislative, single legislative body and government. We are responsible for that, and we can reassure people that despite all the intrigues there, order will be enforced, and we will not be able to break the economic issues there, collapse investment projects and so forth, life will go on. And all the other intrigues that are imposed are being neutralized at the expense of full compliance with the Constitution and respecting the proposals or recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, an international body to which we entered 12 years ago. So I'd like us to get out of this. And any such reflexive action on intrigue, on imposing non-legal action, as we have just seen from the previous brief presentation of the need to create a temporary coalition, should not lead us beyond the limits of the legal field, should not lead us off balance, because the truth is on our side, because the Constitution we have accepted with you, because the body -- the Supreme Council -- has accepted it, and we will abide by it. I'd like us to stick to that line, then success will be undeniable. And success is a legal order in Ukraine, respect for the Constitution, democracy and withdrawal based on consultations of various contradictions that arise, but within the Constitution of Ukraine. And there should be no such thing as self - act, intrigue, or anything else. We're against intrigue, it's not our method, it's another method. I think you all understand that very well. So I would like to close the morning session and announce that the next one will take place at ten o'clock tomorrow. Thank you.
