ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished MPs, journalists, invited, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, March 20, Tuesday. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Take your seats, put your cards on. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:53]] There was a desire to work at this morning’s meeting of 437 national deputies. I declare the morning session open. Dear colleagues, MPs, reports from the Ministry of Emergency Situations at night in our neighbors in the Krasnodar region at Kamiszewatska Station, 63 people were killed in the nursing home and 33 were injured. This is clearly a great tragedy for the Russians, for our neighbors. I'd like to express my sympathy for a moment of silence, please. Please have a seat. Meanwhile, life continues today as well as the birthday of the national deputy Trelyaków Alexander Yuriovich. Let's welcome him with this day. Tuesday. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have time for statements by authorized factions with proposals, statements, messages, and so forth. I'm asking them to sign up for this. Please record. The recording took place. Meanwhile, there is a written record of also authorized Anatolia Kinach, a national deputy of Ukraine. I give him my word. Kinah signed up. Kinakh begs, and then you speak. Anatoly Kirilovich, please. Who? Anatoly Kirilovich Kinach has the floor. Please. I'm asking a colleague! Tadeev! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, honored ones! Statement by the Political Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine on the current socio-political, economic situation in Ukraine. The main common task of the political forces and authorities is to ensure the irreversibility of Ukraine's development as a modern legal, democratic state with a competitive economy and a decent standard of living for citizens. The absence of consolidated actions by branches of power, unity in the country's decision-making process, poses significant losses to the country's international image and creates conditions to reduce the quality of our nation's development. It is very important, and this is what the party insists on, the approval and support of society's economic and social development strategy. It is unacceptable to substitute strategic approaches with a sadistic method of trial and error, spontaneous fire extinguishing. We pay particular attention to the danger of trying to turn the U.S. President's institution into a coin of exchange in a fierce political struggle that has become a threat to the future state and society. The President is the guarantor of the Constitution, the President was and remains a higher political institution that protects the interests, rights, freedoms of all citizens, regardless of the region of residence, party membership or political orientation. As a result, the attempt to involve the President of Ukraine in personal, corporate or narrow-party opposition is unacceptable. A determined acceleration requires a set of problems that affect the lives of our fellow countrymen. This applies to issues of poverty eradication in Ukraine – shameful phenomenon, small, medium-sized business development, housing and utility reform, labour conservation and exploitation, energy security. Today, economic reform remains unsystematic, pension reform is unfinished, the legal conditions for Ukraine's innovation are not being created, the demographic problem is not being solved. We're losing a competitor's struggle for labour. The biggest example is that in the process of intensifying our resistance, we are losing momentum and destroying the prospects for progressive development, we are wasting time and energy on the inner struggle when other states and our competitors are moving on, leaving Ukraine on the side of a civilized world. We are sure that there are enough parades of political selfishness, which many political forces view as a very dangerous slogan “after us – although a flood!” we need to get rid of unnecessary emotions, conjunctural evaluations, personal ambitions. Sit at the negotiating table and jointly develop a strategy of consolidation, national unity and development. There is time for this and we must not lose it. The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine has focused its efforts on the following, and calls for all to unite its efforts around the following priorities: the creation of a single constitutional commission consisting of representatives of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the public, scientists, analysts, experts, the improvement of the Constitution of Ukraine should contribute to achieving, underlining, the national consensus and the consolidation of society, a united solution to the protection of national interests, a worthy integration of Ukraine into European and global European space, the formation of a competitive economy, the provision of citizens' rights to a dignified existence. The very important acceleration of judicial reform, the intensification of the fight against crime and corruption, the inadmissibility of further exacerbation of political opposition that threatens the involvement of Ukrainian citizens in an uncontrolled political conflict. The party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs stresses the importance and relevance of the stated goals and tasks, calling for all to unite efforts around the interests of the people and the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u3	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Polish-Ukrainian Inter-Parliamentary Assembly is working in Kiev, and we have guests from Poland present: deputies, employees of the Seima Polish apparatus headed by Deputy Marshal Bronislav Komorowski. Let us welcome them and wish them success in the work they are doing. [[Applause]] Thank you. The word from the faction "Our Ukraine" is Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u4	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. As in all 2004, political repression returned to Ukraine. Since the sixth hour of 30 minutes in the morning at the apartment of a former minister of interior affairs, an activist and one of the organizers of the orange revolution have been searched. Lawyers and the press don't have access to Yuri Lucenka. This means that the Attorney General's Office and the power structures are once again on the path, not to fighting crime, but to political execution. A few days ago, the Minister of Internal Affairs, Zushko, who is a socialist, announced that the district officials would now not fight crime but would give all their time to warn those citizens who were going to take part in the protest efforts this spring. It seems to us that in a free democratic country, every citizen does not depend on political coloring alone has to determine when, in what way, and in what way, the protest takes place and whether to take part in it at all. This is not the mission of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, nor is it the task of the Attorney General's Office of political persecution. Because the current content of the activities of the Attorney General's Office is the closure of the resonant cases relating to Scherbian, Bakaya, other servants of the Qutum regime. Now all these cases are closed, along with the ongoing persecution against those who would like to ensure the irreversibility of democratic processes in the country. All those who doubted that an anti-democracy rematch was coming upon the country now have no doubt that there was a real task for the government of Yanukovic and the ruling coalition. Today all masks are finally torn down and the united opposition is three times convinced of its right, which is that before the threat of a resurgence of anti - democratic forces, all democratic forces in Parliament and outside Parliament must be united. Dear voters, the actions that are now being inspired by strong structures under the direction of the government of Yanukovic, on the other hand, argue that the ruling coalition and the government of Yanukovic have not drawn any conclusions from the October-November-December 2004 events. Repressive structures, intimidation, threats, and blackmail will once again be fought against by political opponents. This is a repetition of the practice that led to the great People's Revolution of November-December 2004. All of this is happening in the background when, even at the initiative of President Yushchenk, when political consultations take place, after lunch, promising the opposite of lunch, the ruling coalition refuses to fulfil any commitments it makes. Yesterday, at 16 p.m., a working group appeared to find ways out of the parliamentary crisis. The only thing this working group has agreed on is to create working groups on VAT administration legislation, on registration prevention legislation, on tariff legislation, and to establish a list of judges to whom the Supreme Council is consolidated, all factions may have claims. On all other matters, we did not take a step. This applies, including the appointment of a foreign minister. The governing coalition continues to claim that Ogryzko should not be elected minister just because he speaks English perfectly, he is a high-class diplomat and a real Ukrainian patriot. These three signs are the basis for the governing coalition for the second time, and if necessary, it will probably be the third time that this candidature is not supported. This is a revision of constitutional norms, because only the President directs external political action. Under these conditions, we see no attempt by the ruling coalition to unlock the political and parliamentary crisis in the country. The “Our Ukraine” faction says that if the candidate of Ogryzka Vladimir Stanislavovich for the post of Foreign Minister is not supported, we will leave the Plenary Hall. Similarly, we will not participate in Parliament's work until all 17 requirements, which were declared justified by the coalition yesterday, are recognized and taken to work by this coalition. Without the demands of the opposition, no democratic parliament can work. Moreover, when the opposition reaches two hundred deputies and represents half the electorate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u5	Thank you for expressing your position. From the Party of Regions has Vasil Grigorovitch Hara's word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The faction of the Party of the Regions cannot help but be alarmed at the continuing artificial pressure of political hysteria in the country, the attempts of some ambitious and more ambitious policies to obtain dubious dividends even at the cost of causing chaos in Ukraine. This is in the face of an equalization of the economic situation in the country, when there has been clear progress in neutralizing the current Government, inherited from past negative events and, more precisely, systemic crises. Not as a dishonest game, but as a sign of its exclusive democracy, can the accusations against the parliamentary majority and the Government, not only in all deliberate and unthinkable sins, but also in such matters as gas prices, the housing and utility tariffs, the very causes of which lie on the conscience of the saviors of the nation born in the opposing throes. Ukraine is experiencing difficult democratic political and economic transformations that have no political power to implement. The anti-crisis coalition and the Januković Government are taking active steps to deliver positive results in the development of the economy and social protection of the population. No doubt, someone on this difficult path is not immune to mistakes. But isn't it in the constructive role of a private controller of power the task of the opposition? Or the ultimatum language is more melodic for its leaders than pragmatic initiatives aimed at bringing the country back to normal. Indeed, the constant demarches, the attempt to disrupt the legislature and the theatricalized exit from the walls of our colleagues'parliament from the opposition serve as the father of Ukrainian democracy for the common people. The ultimatum of the opposition, unfortunately supported by the President, consisting of 17 paragraphs, containing contradictory, anti-constitutional and absurd requirements for the coalition, can be assessed. Their essence is a further provocation aimed at destabilizing the situation in the country and disrupting the work of Parliament. Even before their announcement in Parliament, the leader of the “Our Ukraine” faction stated: I am personally convinced that the ruling coalition will reject all 17 demands that we make, so tomorrow we must move to decisive action. The comments are superfluous. What's really wrong with the opposition? Stability and growth of Ukraine's economy? GDP growth above the planned level? Is there an increase in pre-emptive standards affecting the living standards of the population? The Government of Janukovič offered the country much earlier than the Supreme Council deadlines and to a greater extent a minimum wage, which would guarantee wage growth for all employees. Establish a higher standard of subsistence, which means increased pensions, scholarships, social benefits. All of this will take place on 1 April 2007. If the President does not comply with the demands of the opposition, do not sign any laws adopted by the anti-crisis coalition to veto them. Such realities of modern Ukrainian political life. The opposition unfortunately professes ideology the worse it is to provoke the parliamentary crisis. And all of this because of a single leader, who has become a manic goal, is power. Powers that were already in absolute form in their hands and that were so free of charge to the country and to the people. The faction of the Party of the Regions states that there is no parliamentary, governmental, economic or socio-political crisis in Ukraine today. There's a crisis of opposition. And the fact that not all members of the opposition factions have taken part in the destructive actions of their leaders and parts of the one party just confirms the depth of the opposition crisis. The faction of the Party of the Regions declares. The anti-crisis coalition and the Government, despite the obstacles posed by the opposition, will continue to live up to their pre-election promises, to develop the economy, to improve the well-being of people, and to improve the quality of life of the population. We call on the opposition not only to abandon the coalition declared but also to their own people of war. We call on the opposition not to provoke the population to extremist actions that may have unforeseeable consequences. We offer the opposition constructive cooperation, if you will, to compete in the solution of economic, social and other problems in the accumulated homeland. The future of Ukraine is up to you and your respectable colleagues. It is up to you to remember us with pride or contempt. We are open to dialogue. We look forward to your constructive steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? I have this request for you to listen to those who come out of the rostrum. It's just not appropriate. There's a noise like that in the hall. Sergei Volodymyrovich, colleague, please talk later. Please take your seats. And if you don't sit there, don't talk to each other like that loudly, because it creates a proper background in the session room, it's not appropriate, the guests are here, and we're starting. Please, so are you, yes. Mikola Vasilovich, please turn your colleagues around. Anatoly Kirilovich, please. The word is given by John Boki of the Socialist faction, followed by Billorus. Will You Be? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u8	Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. The National MPs of Ukraine, the Socialists, welcome the call of fellow MPs, members of the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs led by Anatoly Kirilovich Kinakh to work on Ukraine's exit from the crisis, which is actually a parliamentary-government coalition, which can be fully called a coalition of national unity. It is the national unity that Ukraine needs in these difficult times, such as air, like bread, to bring our country out of a state of strife, wiggles, and uncertainty as a guest of European development, to get off the curve of the war that is being waged by politicians of various imaginations. Ukraine today needs, not political conflicts, but serious building work. This is all the more necessary for all of us to be aware of the challenges of the world process. There's no secret that in about a year and a half, Europe is facing an economic downturn. Experts predict a major global economic crisis in three or four years. Ukraine is now firmly entrenched in the world’s economic society to live with the illusions that these shocks will pass us by. Not to be missed, I assure you. Another thing that Ukraine will encounter is this troubled period for the world. We have time to prepare ourselves and to defuse some of the manifestations of the global crisis on Ukrainian soil. As socialists, it seems necessary to focus our efforts on the technological rearming of industry and agricultural production. That's what we came up with last week, offering to put a moratorium on domestic prices. The world’s economic environment allows for the accumulation of significant amounts in the budget of enterprises for their modernization, without which we can talk about our competitiveness in the world’s markets. Another problem. Energy conservation and energy independence. The third most important is the village. Today it is thrown into the lens of price distortion. And we can't keep putting him out of these ticks. This raises questions about price policy reform in general and wage policy and social security. The cost of human work cannot be as low as it is now, if we are going to the world market and when it is faced with such a crisis. State and national capital must feel responsible for global poverty. I want to remind Alexander Frost of a bill that could be the basis for discussion on this issue. You can't hide behind low purchase prices to produce the village, and you can't hide behind that situation for the common interest. The interest must be one: the right to live is the right of both the citizens and the peasants. We must save the village as a cradle of the nation as a powerful agrarian camp of Ukraine. In the light of this, the responsibility of both the ruling coalition and the opposition to the country’s fate must increase. We can unite for the sake of national interests. As an example, I'm going to name a series of drafts from the production in Ukraine of biofuels that we initiated, socialists. With the BJT, by the way, at the expense of the Socialist Party, we went to the U.S. to study the experience of producing biofuels from corn. The socialists, the regionals, the Bhutanese worked in a sweat madly on the legislative basis of this problem, and today it is ready for discussion and approval in this room. In the light of these challenges and the work of blasphemy together, there are calls for new messiahs of the divine kind to march on Kiev. In the light of this, it is irresponsible to try to organize a new election campaign in the country. Solved by BUT, “Our Ukraine” and so-called “National Self-Defense” the information war disorients people. The opposition directs society to the ruins of everything. The reality of the revolution is taught nothing. The Coalition of Socialists, Regionalists, and Communists, on the other hand, calls on society to build a state. The rallies and the marches won't do anything, we'll have to roll up our sleeves and work. It is a great luxury today to beat pots rather than build, love, create, give birth. Ukraine, as a world power, will be born out of this, not out of overcrowded malice for its own failures, the face of flights on the brooms of political Furies, the undisturbed fascination in which, by the way, speculative capital invests astronomical sums. The socialists urge the Ukrainians to roll up their sleeves, not give in to provocations, and foolish calls. This calls for the harsh reality of today and our responsibility for today’s place in the world and the future of our children. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u9	The word is given by Turkinov from the faction “Blanket of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u10	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Here from this rostrum was a representative of the Party of the Regions, and he said that we have no crisis of power, we have a crisis of opposition. You know, I just don't understand why, when the opposition crisis is here, there's a fear of the faction of the regions near the rostrum. This may require that the speakers respond as well. As for, you know, events that are happening in Ukraine. Yesterday, in fact, throughout the day, negotiations were held on how to stabilize the parliamentary situation, how to stabilize the situation in Ukraine's politics, and unfortunately, aside from the time spent, we do not yet have any concrete outcome of these negotiations. At the same time, the demands of opposition are clear and specific. We're talking about adopting specific laws, including making changes to the first reading of the housing tariff law. We're talking about the fact that you can't speculate on gas and consume it on your own. We're saying that traditionally the gas was purchased by the population exclusively of its own production, and you can double the cost of it to the Russian gas. They agree with us. Yeah, they're nodding their heads because there's nothing to deny. We're talking about the need to pass the law on. which prohibits raiding, which will put in prison for seizing illegal businesses, and so on. There is also no objection. We're talking about stopping the corruption that's taking place with the land at the local level. There's no objection here either. Another question about VAT. They also agree, yes, that corruption regarding the administration of this tax should be stopped. At the same time, honourable colleagues, on these laws, on personnel issues other than the desire to delay the situation, we do not see real steps, because there are personnel issues such as the Central Election Commission, there is a question about the High Council of Justice, there is ultimately a question of the multifaceted foreign minister, the head of the Security Service, and so on. [[The President has submitted two nominations]] At the same time, dear colleagues, I am addressing you, the representatives of the communist-Oligarchic majority, we are not interested in the process itself -- we are interested in the result. We don't enjoy simply voting on these issues. We're interested in the result, we're interested in the personnel assignment, we're interested in the adoption of laws in general, in an editorial that will protect our citizens. And you're not just doing us a favor by throwing them into the hall so that they're cynically and demotically broken down. I'd like to speak to the chairman at Mr. Frost's session. You know, the cynicism with which you've been breaking the Rules lately just makes it impossible to continue to communicate. The same case of election, appointment, more loyal, minister of foreign affairs. I have spoken again and again: the Supreme Council cannot stop discussing the issue without having obtained a successful vote. You've demolished the Rules, and you've moved this issue for a week. Next. Literally on Friday, without a decision, without discussion on the committees of profile, without any procedure required by the Rules, was removed from the head of the commission of the investigating representative of our faction, Andri Sinchenko. Again, no comments, no breaches of the Rules, no response to comments. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you, representatives of the majority: what do you leave behind in such cases of opposition? Take the shield again, cut the light again, block the rostrum again, and so forth. I want to tell you again: we will never be statisticians in your affairs, we will never pretend to work. We'll work, we'll fight. And I'm talking to Frost for one more reason. Pushing opposition to actions that enable it to defend its rights in any way, the same Frost publicly, is demonstratively giving orders to the Attorney General regarding the political persecution of opponents. I gave the press a letter from the Head of the Supreme Council expressing his dissatisfaction that the Attorney General was unable to find a case against the deputies. And it is he who gives the order for the article to be persecuted. And it allows the Henprosecutor's Office to come up with something else that he's paying attention to. Dear colleagues, I believe that such a system of stability that you impose on society will only lead to an increase in the crisis. And I sincerely, I stress, I sincerely express my regret that the events of 2004-2005, that the actions “Ukraine without Couchma”, “Recurrence, Ukraine!” have not taught you anything. In addition, I did not teach those who were with us and then betrayed us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u11	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u12	The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear colleagues, our constituents! Today, a large number of citizens express legitimate concerns and concerns about the opposition and confrontation that are exacerbated by the political powers of orange coloring. They do not want to accept the position of things, the loss of power. And that's what we've seen with you, in particular, even yesterday, watching those TV programs with the leaders of BUT and our Ukraine. And today, from their statements, from this parliamentary rostrum. I'd say that word-for-words and the deception of people are their main instruments today. Instead of focusing on tackling the economic and social crises that they have inherited during their time in power, the so-called opposition has now chosen an unappreciative activity — to establish a society’s climate of destructiveness, chaos, anarchy, lawlessness and national strife. The rotation and pace of ideological processing and bombardment of the minds of people who are already beginning to resemble the ominous times of the orange coup. About the inadmissibility, and more than that, the permissiveness of this course, we were forced to speak openly and openly at a meeting with the President of the country yesterday. Yesterday’s high - ranking officials, who were in a hurry to dress up in opposition clothing, clearly ran out of sanity when they tried not only to speak to the antichrist coalition but also to the entire Supreme Council in terms of threats, blackmail, and ultimatums. It is not possible to consider normal parliamentary practice when, in the event of a failure in some way, the views of “Our Ukraine” and BUT, with the position of the anti-crisis coalition, a minority commits violence and lamentation every time, or engages in hooliganic force. We are no longer talking about the lexicon used in the process by the leader of one of the factions, who is more likely to be a smuggler, doomed to demagogue, than the newly discovered rescuer of the nation. And yesterday we saw it in a meeting with the President of the State. The faction of Communists is that we need to continue to work on improving the Constitution of Ukraine. Yes, it is absolutely necessary. And it needs to be continued consistently, thoughtfully, and persistently. But not to go back to the presidential-parliamentary model of government, because that's the way back, the way to nowhere. We should all go before filling the real guarantees of the rights and freedoms of our fellow countrymen, raising the responsibility of the State for the exercise of constitutional rights, and not talking about 17 requirements, and we are obliged to do so. The Communists have no questions about the requirement to break up criminal business and power. Yes, let's do this, start with ourselves first, and with those oligarchs who have found shelter in our country's senior positions. And for the rest. The newly created political symbiosis - BUT and “Our Ukraine” - is the time to finally stop translating the vector of responsibility for trying to trigger a political and socio-economic crisis into an anti-crisis coalition, because in 23 regions, the regional government is headed by our Ukrainians, and in 18 of them, the district councils make up the majority of the BUT deputies. The Communist faction calls, let's move on from the practice of voting charges and resisting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u13	The factions spoke. Since such broad statements were made, I am obliged to say two words, since these are accusations that obviously cannot be dropped. With regard to the Minister's speech as a representative of the Socialist Party. I mean, he's not a socialist. He was recommended by the socialists, the former secretary of our party, like, by the way, the party secretary Lucenko worked as minister, and today no one blames him for being a socialist. I don't think that's right. Vasil Petrovich has suspended his, his party membership according to the law, for the first time. And second of all, he's not exactly what we heard today. And citizens can listen to him, because he didn't talk about human rights abuses, about participation, the possibility of taking part in protests, or whatever, but he warned some of the activists about the measure of responsibility for breaking the law, which is quite normal for those responsible for the prevention of crimes in Ukraine. And finally, I'm tasked with preparing a draft appeal to the Attorney General's Office on the basis of a search at Yuri Lucenka's apartment, because it's a matter of a few appeals and a minister until recently. We will receive this information and will have the answers objectively. But the reproach on what you see is not the Attorney General's office, not the Attorney General's, not the address. Because in this case you've recommended it, you've chosen it in spite of, by the way, the socialist factions, and now you're presenting the claims. You have to pick up the footage, you have to pick up the footage, Vasil Ivanovich, yes, Alexander Mikolayovich, so that they will follow the law. And I think the information from the Attorney General's Office will answer these questions. Regarding the chairman's cynicism, as the speaker said here, about the vote on the minister's candidacy and so forth. It's not cynicism, it's the desire to get a convincing result, not injuring the feelings of the candidate, not injuring him, including respecting the President's position and trying to ensure a successful vote. So I don't think that's why we have to make claims. Regarding the letter to the Attorney General on my signature. I really sent a letter. The truth isn't to you, although you're demonstrating it right now. And that's why I would suggest not comment, but just read it. To read a letter, because I am the head of an institution called the Supreme Council, I am obliged to have no receipts from the Attorney General's Office, just as I did from any body, at the address of the Supreme Council. And just to be clear, he's talking about the nature of the problem, the analysis of it, the basis for making a decision. Because no one, and I included you, being, by the way, without being in the session hall at that time, pushed you to shut down or exclude the sources of energy for the Supreme Council, which is, by the way, a criminal crime, as recorded in the Codex, in the Criminal Code. That's what this is about. So let's be mutually sound here so that we don't make generalizations that have nothing to do with the case. Because you're protesting what you didn't take into account, that is, we didn't count "Ukraine without Kuchma," or action or anything. I want to say, there is no relation to “Ukraine without Couchma” “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm underlining: no attitude. You were the sincere children of Kuchma at the time, not protesting against him. Yeah, we finished that part of the question. Ladies and gentlemen, on March 16, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26, 2006, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Gorbenko Natalija Arsentiyovna, which is included in the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbenko Natalija Arsentievna, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u14	I, Gorbenko Natalija Arsentievna, pledge allegiance to Ukraine, pledge all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u15	Let's welcome Natalia Arsentiyevna, wish her success in difficult parliamentary activities. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbenko Natalija Arsentijovna, into the membership of the Party of the Regions, as well as on the basis of my personal statement, of its membership in the anti-crisis coalition of the Party of the Regions, the Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These documents are all properly drawn up. Ladies and gentlemen, last week, the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine was discussed on Thursday. Vladimir Ogryzko here is a candidate. In line with the proposals made at the time by the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, by the Socialists, by the Party of Regions on the transfer of this issue, by the postponement of the vote for the next week, that is, by Tuesday for today, we have been determined by this procedure. So today, apparently, there is no need to worry about the candidate’s position if he does not have the desire to express himself. But if there is a desire, he can express himself as he deems necessary. I repeat, there is no need for this. But if there is a desire for a candidate for office, he may speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. Pick up your stenographer, read it. The delegate Smith made a proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u16	Thank you, Your Honor, Alexander Alexandrovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you two minutes. Everyone and I understand, first of all, that this is not about the Ogreka candidate today during the vote. And it's not about my professional qualities, because they're all very well known to you. 28 years of work in the MSS system is a little bit more than some other actual members of the Cabinet of Ministers today who have found support in this room and voted for their posts. I want to tell you that I have my political beliefs. I want to tell you that I'm not giving up on them, but I've worked, I've worked, and I've worked exclusively under the law. That's what I told you at our last meeting. Today it is not just about voting, but it is about the image of the Supreme Council in the world. Recently, I met informally with a high - ranking man from one country. He made a terrible joke on me. He said: “You know, you used to have spikeriads, and now the matter has reached the ministers.” You know, that's something to think about. And last and foremost, honourable national MPs, today in the Supreme Council there is a chance to vote not for Ogreska, but to make a concrete step towards an agreement in our society. There's another chance to make a crown of further destabilization. So the choice is yours, Your Honor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u17	Because questions were answered the last time we considered the matter. Thank you for the information, please sit down. I'm asking for your attention. Please don't disturb me. I'm putting to the vote Vladimir Ogryzka's candidacy to appoint his foreign minister. [[10:50:30.]] For-195 195, no decision taken. Factions: Region Party – 0, "Club of Timoshenko" – 115, "Our Ukraine" – 77, Socialists – 1, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. Let's start with the next question. Ladies and gentlemen, we must now consider two draft laws amending the Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine and the Law on the Status of Judges. The representative of President Roman Mihajlovich Zvaric is asking to postpone the consideration of this issue to the next sessional week, based on what he is and, I think, we are all interested in having these draft bills adopted, because they are under control at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it is our obligation to reform the judiciary. Motivation: Well, first of all, some of the MPs don't participate in the meeting. I do not think that this is a basic or objective reason, but the objective reason is that we should approach the contents of this document very carefully and make no mistakes. It is the President who suggests that voting on these bills be convincing, and he also asks that the consideration of this issue be postponed to the next sessional week. If you don't mind, I'll put this motion to a vote. Please. [[10:52:55]] For 255 Decision taken. A second reading of the draft Law on State Land cadastre is under consideration. This is a second reading again, reports Bevanko Valerij Fedorovich, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s draft Law on the State Land cadastre was adopted in the first reading in October 2004. The bill was twice considered in a second reading, but it was rejected in connection with the aim of depriving the local councils of authority regarding the conduct of the Earth cadastre at the local level. These functions were proposed to monopolize land resources in public authorities. In the process of drafting the law that you are offered for re-reading, 78 comments and suggestions from national MPs are considered, most of which are taken into account. A number of proposals have also been taken into account by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government notes that the proposal for members of the committee to reject the bill has been fully taken into account. In addition, all the proposals made by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine regarding the request of Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which you are given today, are fully taken into account. One of the proposals of the Ministry to amend articles 125, 126 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is not the subject of this law, but will be supported by our committee when considering a bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers concerning the registration of immovable property rights. On the basis of the compromise, we were able to harmonize the powers of executives and local self-government authorities to introduce Cadastre, to establish the priority functions of the state in this process, to confirm the conceptual means of the bill adopted in the first reading. In particular, the central executive body on land issues will implement. First. The introduction and implementation of a single methodology, methodology, and modern cadastre technology as a single state system in the country. The other one. Conduct cadastres at national, regional and local levels, as well as land and cadastral documentation outside populated areas and in villages, cities, except for the land book and the registers of State acts, etc., and the automation of the information and documents of the State Land cadastre. The bill foresees that the introduction of the State Land Cadastre is carried out at the expense of the State Budget and the Land and Cadastre Documentation, and also at the expense of the local budget, as provided for by the Ukrainian Land Payment Act on the execution of funds and the payment of land taxes. In view of the recent continuation of the moratorium on land sales, we have been discussing the scale of our assessment, especially in relation to the market prices of agricultural land in the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u19	Please. But, Valery Fedorovich, well, you're responsible for the bills, but this is the second reading. Well, please finish. We have to work here as amended. Give me a chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u20	However, it should be borne in mind that the price of land is not the subject of this law, it is regulated by the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act, and it already provides for changes. Please accept the bill on the State Land cadastre on second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's go -- this is the second reading, I remind you again -- we're going for the amendments. All right, fourth one, Bespaly. Editable. Fifth, do not insist. Insomnia, seven. Not counted. Overruled. But he's gone, he's not defending his position. Yes, please, which of the national deputies whose amendment has been rejected insists on its justification? You don't? There aren't that many. These are mainly amendments made by Bespalogo's colleague. Are there any amendments that the committee has taken into account, but do you have a different opinion? None. Catherine Semenovna asks to vote. Science for cadastral. That's good. Then I'm voting for adoption in the second reading and in general as bill number 0948 on the State Land cadastre. Please take off your vote. Lavrinovich, but as an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u22	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine supports the adoption of this draft law in second reading and in general, taking into account the changes that have been made since the main legal administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the changes that have been made today by the national deputies and the reporters, which are in general taking into account these amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u23	Thank you. I would like to reiterate, Mr. President, once again, that we will vote on the adoption of the law in the second reading and in general, taking into account the amendments that the rapporteur has been talking about, that they will comply with the bill that we will be considering at this plenary week. It's all settled. All agreed, there will be no conflict between these two laws. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as bill number 0948 on the State Land cadastre. Please vote. [[10:59:49]] For 240 The law is passed. I sincerely welcome you. It's probably one of the most important, or more specifically. One of the most important laws and one of our biggest debts to this problem. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support my suggestion that we have now given the opportunity to inform the member. inform the meeting of the Venice Commission, the European Commission for Democracy through Law, on its last meeting, to allow such information to be made available to our colleague. Please vote. Mikhail Vasilovich! Vote. [[11:00:54]] For 228 Decision taken. Please, Sergey Petrovich, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u24	Mr. Chairman, distinguished national MPs. First of all, I've been in this session hall since 1990 with a free mandate. And that's why I'm not going to come out of it because of the whims of some single leader who's rebelling in this country and trying to commit rebellion and rebellion in general and lead the way, I would say, I don't want to say that sometimes in the spring, someone who leads someone. That's the first one. I have mentioned the free mandate because I will speak at the end of this statement about the imperative mandate that today throughout Europe is known as the law of Timoshenko. On March 16-17, the 17th plenary session of the Venice Commission took place in Venice, which is called the European Commission for Democracy through Law, which was in the agenda of the issues that are in the order of the Supreme Council of the day or which are part of our legislation. That's special. It was about the conclusions of the Venice Commission on these two bills on the status of judges and the judicial system that we were supposed to consider before that, but we moved on to the next plenary week. This is about the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition, and it's about the Law on Amendments to Our Legislation, which refers to the status of members of the Supreme Council of Crimea and local councils, the Law of Timoshenko on an Imperial Mandate. In view of the fact that we will be considering separate laws on the status of judges and the judicial system, I merely want to briefly inform the members of the Supreme Council that the Venice Commission has adopted an official conclusion on these two bills. The experts of this committee spoke: Ms. Hanna Sukhotska, she is known to you as the former Prime Minister of Poland, the former Minister of Justice of Poland and the Attorney-General of Poland; Mr. James Hamilton, who is from Ireland, was the Attorney-General of Ireland and an expert from the Department of Legal Affairs of the Council of Europe, Judge Aless Zaler, who is also the Deputy Secretary-General of the European Association of Judges. I'm not going to go into detail about a fairly detailed analysis of these two bills, but let me write you a pretty good general conclusion: “The Commission welcomes, or favours, the two bills are positively appreciated and it sees them as a clear indication that they are much better than what is today in the existing judicial system in Ukraine. And these are far better bills than those that were previously on the expertise of the Venice Commission." The main conclusion is that the basics of these two bills meet European standards. And the Venice Commission favours or welcomes the decision of another parliamentary committee to draft these two bills in preparation for the second reading as the only systematic bill to avoid repetition. The Venice Commission therefore recommends that the Ukrainian Parliament continue its judicial reform in Ukraine on the basis of these two bills that have been tabled in Parliament. This is the case with these laws by court order and by the status of judges. And the second issue that was discussed was the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition, we seem to be preparing for a second reading. And I want to say that the experts of the Venice Commission on this issue were: a professor of constitutional law from Italy Sergio Bar toli, he's been an expert on the whole of our constitutional process since 1995, he's reached conclusions on a draft Constitution that was adopted in 96, according to other drafts of the Constitution of Ukraine, after amendments to the Constitution, as well as a judge, former judge of the Constitutional Court of Hungary, Professor Peter Pacholay. When they reported this content of our draft law on parliamentary opposition, there was an hour’s discussion that the commission was unable to agree on. She referred the issue to the June plenary for one reason: in no European country there is a legislative or law regulating the status of parliamentary opposition. This draft conclusion, which is today, is filled with expressions such as “unusual for European democracy”, “unusually for international comparative law”, it is not, it is very unusual what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is, what it is. In short, it is a matter of not being institutionalized by legislation in European systems of the parliamentary institutions of opposition. And the main conclusion that, or the thoughts that were expressed that if the Venice Commission had now approved this bill or approved it, it had a positive conclusion, they said they were setting a precedent. Because, in principle, there was such a European parliamentary practice that opposition, its status, its rights, its possibilities are governed by many provisions of the Constitution, the rules of procedure of Parliament. But most importantly, it is the result of historical, political, social and cultural factors. This is the result of deals: how many seats in the Presidium, how many, what committees, how many to give other positions. But the point is that this is the result of not even written arrangements between the ruling majority and the opposition. The point is also that when it comes to parliamentary control, which is proposed in our Parliament by the opposition to grant parliamentary control. The question was: What, the parliamentary majority does not exercise control? What, the Institute of the Court of Auditors, which appoints the entire Parliament, is not an institution of parliamentary control? What, the Human Rights Commissioner, and what, the parliamentary commission investigators, and what, the parliamentary request, and what, the question of any member of Parliament to the government, is not a question of parliamentary control? Yes, and most share in parliamentary control. Therefore, the formalization of the institution of parliamentary opposition is extremely questionable, especially in terms of the question of the violation of the rights of a member of the MP who has a free mandate, not belonging to the ruling majority, not to the opposition, to the so-called swamp. And in this situation, when it comes to a clear distinction for most, and a minority, but institutionalized, then the rights of a individual MP are violated. And finally, about the law of Timoshenko. The Venice Commission referred this question to. on the approval of this decision in June because Gregory Nemira of the BUT faction came to the Venice Commission as a representative of the President in this matter. He had a mandate, signed by the head of the Secretariat, that Gregory Nemira would represent this issue. He asked for a postponement. Well, I'll tell you, I have no right to violate the confidentiality of the Venice Commission until a decision is made, but I can tell you one thing: You know, a very high official in European structures said: “If only I had. There's been a law in our country, Timoshenko, and I wouldn't be in Parliament for 27 years. Because I say, against my government, against my party, against the first war in Iraq, against the second war in Iraq, but I was in Parliament for 27 years. I now hold a high position in European structures." So think about it, when every day and today the 4th anniversary of aggression in Iraq, Americans die every day, and Iraq, and the military, and civilians, and that's what Timoshenko's law is worth. I propose to the Parliamentary Coalition to repeal this law. You want me to make it, but you make the decision! If you stand on the basis of a free mandate, democracy and then see whether the President vetoes as a liberal Democrat as a European or not. I will. how much I will be in politics and as Ukraine's national deputy, and as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and as a member of the Bureau of the Venice Commission, to fight for the lifting of an imperative mandate in Ukraine for local councils, for the repeal of the law of Timoshenko, so that it will never act in this country. [[I was elected on Friday, Saturday for this job.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u25	Thank you, Sergey Petrovich. We heard information about the meeting of the Venice Commission. As you have learned, we have done the right thing for you because our colleague's information has been devoted to the issues that have been discussed there regarding the issues of the laws of our country with you. So I think this information was quite useful. We need to make a decision on a simplified procedure. Please support this proposal. Vote. [[11:12:12]] For 238. A decision has been made. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Proceeds by Crime is under consideration. Registration number 2847. It's a government bill. Report to the Head of the State Financial Monitoring Committee, Sergei Grigorovich Gurgy, please. Get ready for Jizzy's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds by Crime has been drafted in accordance with international standards that have undergone significant changes in recent years. Yes, a new edition of FatF's Forty Recommendations was adopted in June 2003. In May 2005, the new Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of Proceeds by Crime was adopted. In November 2005, the Third European Union Directive on the fight against the laundering of criminal income was adopted. I would like to point out that the project is purely technical, completely devoid of subjectivity and is based on the need to implement international standards and the acquired experience of public authorities and financial institutions. As far as the main aspects of the bill are concerned, I would like to take the next step. It is envisaged that the list of financial monitoring entities will be expanded by representatives of non - financial professions. There is a corresponding expansion in the number of public authorities performing regulatory and supervisory functions. This is, in particular, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics. A mechanism is in place to stop the financial institution from carrying out an operation that is motivated by suspicion that it may be linked to the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means, including the request of a foreign government authority. The bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is the result of the work of fourteen government bodies. According to the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the bill is recommended for adoption in the first reading. Finally, I would like to say that, according to FATF's official information at the beginning of 2006, the recommendations of this international organization have already been introduced into national legislation by 150 countries around the world. People's deputies, please, and I'm asking for your support in this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u27	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, Mikola Vasilovich Giga. May I have the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The project is aimed at ensuring the implementation of 40 FATF recommendations, the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, as well as the European Parliament and Council Directives on preventing the use of the financial system for money laundering and terrorist financing. The list of primary financial monitoring entities is being expanded to include notaries, lawyers, business entities that provide legal services, real estate dealers, postal operators in part of their remittances of money, traders in precious metals and precious stones, auditors, audit firms, legal entities that conduct lotterys, business entities that provide accounting services. At the same time, the project provides for restrictions on reporting to persons designated by the authorized authority in the area of financial monitoring of their suspicions. Yes, those individuals may refrain from sending relevant information to the authorized body if such information is obtained under circumstances that are the subject of their professional secret. It is the responsibility of primary financial monitoring entities to take increased precautionary measures against customers whose activities indicate an increased risk of money - laundering and terrorist financing. Such measures should be taken in the event of the establishment and conduct of business relations with foreign politicians and foreign financial institutions. The distribution of confiscated assets resulting from the legalization of income or the financing of terrorism is expected. In particular, the funds received by Ukraine under the Agreement on the Allocation of Confiscated Assets are included in the State budget. A mechanism for halting financial transactions is in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u30	We propose to adopt this extremely important bill as a basis, although there is no obstacle to the adoption of the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you may recall that on Friday there was a proposal from a representative of the President, and it is already being realized that the President will determine his representative on those bills of importance that he would like his opinion to be made. We have a letter from the President on the basis of article 34 of the Rules on the Law on Amendments to the Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalization of Laundering of the Proceeds of Crime, and we have given the opportunity to speak to Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, a representative of the President. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u32	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The President of Ukraine welcomes the introduction by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in general and in principle appreciates this draft of the Ukrainian Law, which is the subject of your consideration. The President of Ukraine is also stressing this. That the adoption of this bill would allow Ukraine's national legislation to be brought into line with international standards to combat the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means and the financing of terrorism. In particular, the President points out that this law will bring our national legislation into line with the Council of Europe Convention, ratified on December 17, 1997, the 40 recommendations of the Financial Action Group on Money Laundering, the so-called FATF Group, the 9 Special Recommendations of the Group, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe Directive of December 26, 2005 on preventing the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing. It is worth noting that the bill is made by the majority -- I emphasize most -- of the bills that were tabled for consideration by the government in 2005 and were defined by the President of Ukraine as urgent. Yet, for various reasons, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not support 4 vocations. On the one hand, taking into account the extremely high social significance of the bill and, on the other hand, the inadmissibility of its use with a view to enhancing State control over economic and financial activities, the President of Ukraine proposes that, when preparing the bill for second reading, its position be maximized in order to avoid possible variations and inaccuracies. I'd like to put it more clearly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u33	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u34	I'll try briefly. In particular, the President of Ukraine proposes that, in preparing the bill for second reading, he consider supplementing it with standards that provide for appropriate amendments to the Criminal Code in order to bring its provisions into line with international standards. I would just like to point out that the difference between this bill tabled by this government and that tabled by the government of Yanukovic is the absence in this bill of these rules, which I am now talking about, which can actually create a situation where the powers contained in this law can be overused in an unproper way. Therefore, the President of Ukraine proposes that this bill be finalized in his preparation for the second reading, taking into account the standards that have been removed from the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u35	Yes, thank you. Please, who wants to share in the discussion? Write "for" and "against". Please, Dry. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u36	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Dear colleagues, well, I was hoping that the President of Ukraine would support this bill. The point is that this bill, like the idea itself, has a long history. I am addressing the people's deputies of Ukraine on the fourth call. Remember, back in 2003, in 2004, the question was to adopt a legal framework against legalization and shadow money laundering. If you remember, there was a bill that predicted a ten percent interest rate, if you're willing to say that there's money out there that's not declared or anything like that. At that time, a colleague of Zarubin’s spoke harshly, emphatically. In short, there is a lively debate around this bill in society, as well as around the whole subject. And we simply have to accept such a European norm that, in principle, exists today in the world and no one is surprised. But I want to, well, point out the last thing that the committee head said -- Mikola Vasilovich Giga -- this bill could have been passed in general if there was no doubt. In fact, you know, such a bill would have to be adopted by no short-circuit procedure. Then a representative of the President would have had more time to base his position. This bill is vital to our economic health, social health, and moral health. Therefore, it could be accepted in general if there were no problem with the mechanism for this bill not to become a time tool in the hands of totalitarian authorities, or certain government officials, because such information to the authorized body regarding any political opponents could turn into a tool of execution or political pressure. It is clear, therefore, that in this bill this rule of limitations on reporting to designated individuals of a special authorized body in the field of financial monitoring, of their suspicions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u37	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u38	Please pass the word Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u39	Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u40	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. I sincerely wish to express my surprise at the position of the President's representative in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who said that the President believes that this bill should be sent for further work. Who then said that the Bandits were in prison? And just the government of the anti-crisis coalition, I ask you to pay attention to everyone, including Chechov Mikhail Vasilovich, that this bill has been drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So to implement this slogan, it's being implemented by the government of the anti-crisis coalition. I think that when we adopt this law in the first reading, we will work very hard on the second reading. Indeed, it is a law that has helped to heal the situation in our country. I also think that this bill is going to serve, for example, for Julia Volodymyrna to finally return the 8 billion, well, 7.6 billion that she has written off her debt to the budget. I mean, according to the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the bill was very urgent to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It needs to be accepted in the second reading, in the first reading, and in the first reading, to work on improving it so that we can adopt this bill with you before the second reading. So I propose to adopt this bill, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u41	Thank you. First of all, I'm talking to the speakers again. Be correct in your comments. Still, 7.6 billion is not 8 billion. So call it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u42	And I got better.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u43	Oh, I'm good. That's when I listened. Okay. Now, second. There's a proposal by the President to postpone consideration of this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u44	No, we're working on a committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u45	That's right, send him to the committee for work, considering he's complicated. And the speeches made by some deputies during the discussion indicate that the President's proposal should be taken into account. So I would like to put this proposal to the vote to send this project to the committee for further development and then consider it immediately, obviously, in the next plenary week. I'll bet you that vote, please. [[11:27:35]] For 218. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u46	We didn't make it. Vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u47	That's what this is about -- reprocessing for re-reading. Who's to go back to the vote, let's vote. I got it. I was wrong, I wasn't making it clear, so one of the deputies didn't understand what was going on. [[11:28:18]] For 243 We're going to vote now. I mean, it's a proposal to vote, to refer it to a committee for redrafting and re-reading. Did I ask the right question? I'll bet you a vote. [[11:28:46]] For 247 Which means clarity of wording. I think it should be armed. Question under consideration, Registration No. 3054, Draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences. [[on liability for plant quarantine offences]] Reported by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Sergey Ivanovich Melnik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u48	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences was drafted in the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants, as amended by the Act of 19 January 2006. The draft law proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations with a view to establishing a clear list of plant quarantine offences, as defined in article 47 of the Ukrainian Law on Quarantine Plants. Article 105 of the Code proposes to determine the responsibility of legal and natural persons for the propagation of quarantine organisms and for violating the requirements of phytosanitary measures, i.e. laws and other legal acts that are mandatory for enforcement. The current wording of this article of the Code does not allow for the effective application of it because of disfiguringness, and it defines offences only as violations of the rules on the fight against quarantine. Next. Article 106 of the Code proposes to recognize the responsibility for the import, export, or implementation of a regulatory object that has not undergone phytosanitary control. The draft law also proposes to supplement the Code with article 188 24 on administrative responsibility for non-compliance with the legal requirements of officials of the State Department of Quarantine Plants of Ukraine, failure to comply with quarantine orders and failure to detect harmful organisms. The adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences will enable the effective fight against offenders, against offenders in quarantine and ensure that tasks to protect Ukraine’s territory against the introduction and spread of regulated harmful organisms are carried out. The draft law was approved at a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement. The Ministry of Agrarian Policy of Ukraine is working on the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the draft law and supports the proposal to renumber the articles. These proposals can be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u49	Give him a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u50	Thank you. We ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the decision to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u51	Is there a question? Oh, that's the one with the cut-off procedure. No questions asked. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u52	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u53	Have a seat. From the committee is Gretzak Vasil Mikolaiovich, a member of the Committee on Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! A law enforcement committee has been discussed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Quarantine Offences. The purpose of the adoption of this law is to bring the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act into line with certain provisions of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. The project proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Part of the Responsibility for Plant Quarantine Offences. Unlike the current text, the proposed distribution of articles 105, 106 contains a broader list of quarantined plant offences defined by the same law. The draft law proposes to supplement the Code on Administrative Offences of Articles 188-24. In addition, the competence of the authorities of the State Department for Quarantine Plants of Ukraine to deal with cases of administrative misconduct is expanding. The committee considers it necessary to invite the Supreme Council to accept it on its first reading as a basis. The proposed changes to existing legislation, according to members of the committee, will help improve legal regulation in this area. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council believes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading on the basis of the comments made and the subsequent merger before the second reading of its text with other bills containing minor changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. In our view, the comments made can be corrected when preparing the bill for second reading by agreeing on all the suggestions. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u55	Thank you, sit down, please. Anyone who wishes to speak for or against this bill, please register. Dry and Ponomarenko, both in favor. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u56	Thank you. May I have the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergio Ribuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u57	Please, Ribuk Sergey Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u58	Thank you. Rybub, Party of Regions, Zitomirsk. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the vital importance of this bill and the need for its adoption. From an environmental point of view, and from a technological point of view, 41 million hectares per year are scattered, almost 30,000 tons of highly toxic poisons are scattered, and control, in practice, and punishment, no matter what. And when food is in wells, in rivers, in lakes, when schools suddenly get sick, classes, villages are all from there. I'm going to compare that if there's only signs of epizootic malformation, then everybody goes up: and the whole state, and we're localizing, and we're fighting, because we see that the bird dies there, and so on. And when you can't see this, and there are millions of acres of this catastrophe happening, we often don't see it. I want to let you know that we're very scrupulous and in college, and now on the Supreme Council committee, we've been looking at this subject with a profile, a written law, everything agrees perfectly. And I'm making an offer to get it into action faster, to accept it in both the first and the second readings, because there's nothing special about it until the second reading. There is simply a system of fines that is verified and written, and it is in line with other valid legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u59	Please, Grigory Grigorovich Ponomarenko passes the word to Catherine Semenovni Samojlik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u60	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The faction of the Ukrainian Company will vote in favour of this bill. And from myself, what I want to say is that, in fact, it would be Alexandre Alexandrovich, we would have to accept it in the first and second readings. It's a very bad situation right now. You see how diverse we are: and the Ministry is, and our committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is. And how many public organizations, and unfortunately the environment remains very complex. And so it would be absolutely right for us to raise responsibility and adopt the bill in the first and second readings. We know what ambrosia is, we know what other harmful plants are for the population of our country. I'd love to. More than that, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to say. You know, I even ran into myself in Hersonian, and they closed the problem and waved their hand and not just that problem. For example, I was approached by a woman who works all the time in a health - care facility in the market and tells me that practically rotten meat is sold to people. I asked you a question. And what do you think is the answer? And the answer is that she's being dragged to court right now. Sergey Ivanovich, I also turned to Peter Ivanovich, who, among other things, should have responded, and therefore I really think that we need to accept immediately in the first and second readings, because this same law, this same law, is an informal law, this law protects every person, every citizen, from a great man to a small one or vice versa. And that's why we have to vote in favour of this bill, it's urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u61	I think the argument was convincing, especially for a large and small man. So let's say we, on the basis of the first reading, vote on this bill. On the basis of the first reading, please. [[11:39:13]] For 237 Decision taken. There were suggestions, by the way, in many, in the first and second readings. But there's a note by the MPs who think that the Committee's baseless remarks are, more faithfully, the Executive, because it's about legal technology and certain things that can then make the use of legislation difficult. All of this would have to be brought into line with the requirements and codes and so forth, to see how our codifiers analyze the use of these standards, and to adopt the second reading finally next week.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u62	I get it, I get it. A very important law is that the committee should consider it by next sessional week and make an offer. But they deny, if there's one objection, I can't. For reasons Baranowski asks, please. Alexander Petrovich Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u63	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished national deputies that the bill proposes in article 105 to abolish administrative responsibility for violating the fight against weeds. So the administrative commissions that were able to influence the village councils, the performances, you can't wait for a quarantine inspector, it's not just in the areas and more in the rural councils. And this weight is so important when the village council can influence the violators, it's being eliminated here. And there's the other side, when, say, the inspector is entitled, it's written: “The failure of the government's quarantine officer to execute appropriate quarantine measures”, that is to say, his authority is being strengthened, and this depth is being given more, and he can, by his actions, by his quarantine instructions, destroy any firm, as he begins to scrupulously. So it's only necessary for everything to be done here, only to provide for the law, and for the corresponding quarantine diseases of pests, which are quarantined, not any, because we are with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u64	I think it's a good point to get out of this. That plants are different now. You know, there's a whole list of plants that just need to be focused on the efforts of all people not to spread this disaster across Ukraine. So I suggest, Alexander Petrovich, that you make your second readings, consider them on the committee, and give them a review of the Supreme Council for the next sessional week, because Catherine Seminovna is properly concerned about that. It's like the heat's starting, spring and so on. We need to have this law at the proper time. So we made the decision in the first reading. A draft law on the continuation of the procedure for the liquidation of the Agrobusiness Share Bank "Ukraine", a draft of the King's People's Deputy, is under consideration. He will report this question, Victor Mikolaiovich King, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u65	You are being reviewed by the Ukrainian Law on Continuation of the Procedure for the Elimination of Shareholder Commercial Agro-industry Bank "Ukraine". The development of a draft law on the continuation of the liquidation procedure of this bank is prompted by the need to create legal grounds for the continuation of the procedure for the liquidation of the shareholding commercial agro-industry bank “Ukraine” in order to satisfy the requirements of all investors and other creditors of the bank. I'll just say a few words for the story. The liquidation of the Bank “Ukraine” began in July 2001, and the Bank “Ukraine” was the most powerful bank of the post-Radians period in Ukraine. Just the name, it had 27 directorates, more than 600 branches, more than thousands of unbalanced divisions. The bank's assets were worth 2 billion. The liquidation of this bank was given increased attention by the state authorities, including the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which formed the Provisional Commission of Inquiry. verification of the legality of its liquidation. At the initiative of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council, a special law and amendments were passed. I'll just tell you, during the Bank's liquidation, three Ukrainian laws were passed, eight parliamentary decrees, 43 decrees of the National Bank, seven orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And so today, I can tell you that the status of February 1, 2007, due to the work done on the liquidation of the Bank of Ukraine, has met the creditors' demands for more than 800 million dollars, which is almost 50 percent of all claims submitted. It wasn't in practice, and it was because of those numbers I called, that was the fruitful work of both the Supreme Council in the person of its commission, and of others who could. That's why I won't be here in an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u66	Give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u67	I ask you, first of all, to support this acceptance. That's the law. This will allow another 800 million, which is theoretical, which is still an opportunity to return to the investors, to other creditors. But the law was written “to continue until July 17th. ” Alexander Aleksandrovich, this was given in September, so I ask you in the law to write "to continue to 2 years". Given this, it's going to be a year and a half. They're going to end this procedure. It's not about creating a Supreme Council commission. It's about giving the right authority to end the work of the liquidator. This is in order for the courts to make appropriate decisions so that they can complete the case outside. For the record, I'm telling you that post-op surgery is a one-to-five-year extension. It's a case, a cassation facility and all. So, my dear colleagues, if you support this issue, we will not let you steal or limit the possibility of stealing almost 800 million dollars, and they will be returned to their legitimate owners. These are legal persons, no natural persons. They're legal persons, they're associations, they're social organizations that just serve at this bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u68	Have a seat, please. I understand. What does the National Bank think about this? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u69	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u70	For the transcript, introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u71	supports the bill to extend the liquidation period of the Bank “Ukraine”. Despite the considerable amount of work that the liquidator has done on the liquidation process, at present there are some 340 cases in the courts where almost 335 million dollars are owed to the Bank of Ukraine. In particular, debt relief cases totalling 29 million dollars by commercial courts of 220 debtors, whose debt to the bank amounts to 306 million dollars, have been disrupted by bankruptcy cases. In addition, there are 212 decisions in the executive branch of the State Executive Service in the amount of 226 million dollars in debt in favour of the bank. At present, the bank’s liquidator is carrying out open auctions with loans and securities totalling about 200 million dollars. All of this demonstrates the need to continue the liquidation process of the Bank of Ukraine, considering that more than 45,000 creditors have not been satisfied with the claim of 825 million dollars. It's really a legal person at the heart of the third queue. In line with the National Bank, he also asks for support for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u72	About the deadline. How do you feel, not much?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u73	We're backing it up. If we finish the procedure early, it's time-consuming.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u74	By January first, will that be enough, do you think? To complete this procedure this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u75	It's hard to say. The point is, it depends on the court hearing. Basically, there are cases that have been dealt with in the courts for more than five years, and we are purely procedural, and the liquidator can do nothing. So it's hard somehow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u76	How would you like to see, for example, that by January 1st of the eighth year, if necessary, we continue. But. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u77	Yeah. Okay. This will be any incentive for those who take part in this process. All right, have a seat, please. Who wants to make a statement? Please. Sign up. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. Why didn't they sign up, I'll do it again. I'm re-announced. Please. So I'm looking at it, it's not on the monitor. Please take down the previous entry and re-enter the subject “for” and “against”. And you, no, you'll be performing. Dry, Samuel. But Kravchenko will speak before that, which he signed up earlier. Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u78	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. This law is very necessary. Indeed, some people today, back to the mass of people, the organization is still on the move, and the deadlines are over. And, Aleksandar Aleksieevich, please have one, what you said is that by January 1st, if we go this way, the courts will be on the same level. They're just going to be delayed and we're going to have to save the Supreme Council's overall situation again. Therefore, if possible, it will be extended for a year and a half to allow further bank liquidation within this time frame. But one thing I will say is that the political consequence of this, the destruction of the bank of Ukraine, is this affair, which, of course, survives very hard. And what's left of 800 million is a terrible figure for organizations, for people who have suffered as a result. So they have to try to get something back from the rest of the property and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u79	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u80	May I have the floor to the national deputy of Ukraine, Alexander Mikolayovich Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u81	Peanut. Please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u82	The faction of the regions, Pecklusenko, Zaporozhye. Colleges, today considering the issue, cannot be considered narrowly because of the prism of merely wanting to limit, as the rapporteur said, the possibility of stealing 800 million. We must look at this issue more broadly, first and foremost, back to the topic of the Bank of Ukraine. The Bank of Ukraine, Aleksandr Alexandrovic, is a symbol of impunity, theft and irresponsibility of power. Tell me how much it took to steal in the country, that we would still find at least one guilty person or at least one responsible person, how many billion had to be stolen. Therefore, I believe that we must return to the subject of responsibility for those who have caused this catastrophe. The second issue, which arises at the same time here, is the existing practice of the derebean of banks. If there is a State, if there is a National Bank system, why is there a crowd of fraudulent investors standing next to the National Bank and next to the Supreme Council? I therefore believe that we should return to parliamentary hearings in the near future, whether, in conjunction with the issue with Kabmin, we should consider clearly the issue of the Bank of Ukraine, the system of problem banks and the system of protection of our investors. With regard to the proposed bill, we will certainly vote in favour. The only request to the rapporteur is, apart from the 800 million that can be given, no theft, a cost figure should be given for what it would cost. Won't it cost a billion dollars? In general, the law requires support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u83	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u84	Thank you. Samylik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Indeed, we support this law. And the men supported me. Well, for two years, for two years. But the important thing is that we fulfill our obligations not only to us but also to the commission and to the nations before our peoples. But, Reverend Alexander Alexanderovich, I would like to say the following. Victor Mikolaiovich, when are we actually going to call those people who were desecrating the bank from this rostrum? Why are you silent? You, I know that one of the houses that went to the board of directors, and that was part of this bank's derby, now she wants to take the feed after Pinchuck, our combine plant, the Hersonian combines, for which my colleagues from the Socialist Party of Ukraine also spoke. And we're, you know, kind of modest today. Well, yes, it is. Well, let's break that term. We're gonna kick this money and stuff. But the Interim Investigation Commission was set up not only to extend the duration and duration of the program, but to find out who was responsible for the bankruptcy of the bank that served the interests of the agro-industrial complex. Who's done all this?Oh, my God! Who was in charge? Who were on the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, and who were on the Watch Tower Society’s Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, Inc. Why, Victor Mikolaiovich, are you silent about this? That would give you a lot of added value to your personality, and it would give you a lot of benefits, but you keep quiet about it because it suits you. I think it's time to tell the honest truth to the people who robbed this bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, all those who were to speak had a desire. And here are two basic questions. First. On the extension of the term as suggested by the committee and the Special Investigation Commission for a year and a half. This does not give rise to contradiction, but the Central Bank, more loyally, the National Bank of Ukraine also believes that it is carrying out a judicial procedure, including a reasonable time. And we have to agree with this proposal to continue for a year and a half. Is that what I'm saying? A year and a half. This will be counted. But here's another question. Because we kind of forgot that this is one of the biggest financial and property affairs in Ukraine that was made in years of independence. It is interesting, however, that the MPs, at least by politics, know who stole, who gave good money for bankruptcy, to lead to the bankruptcy of the largest bank “Ukraine” and so they know, but remain silent about themselves. It's as if they're ashamed to say what they're saying about the prosecutor. Why does he say they quit the case, he says. They stopped because they came at me. So this is where we have to take a close look, and so I think we can give a protocol commission to a special commission, in the next report on the progress of debt repayment and the implementation of the previous decision on the commission of inquiry, to instruct the commission about the course of criminal investigation of this case, on the involvement of the officers in this robbery and on their responsibility. I think that's enough time. The commission has been working for a long time, bankruptcy has taken place, but there is always silence of the parallel process of criminal responsibility of those who have led to this terrible state of affairs, the largest bank in Ukraine, and which is absolutely necessary, we feel today in discussing, for example, the Earth cadastre, the law adopted today, in other documents that. At least have to have a state bank of land that will work on land operations so that the state will be protected and the people will be protected. If this is done by institutions that may bankrupt a few men or a dozen men, then there is no prospect of such a policy on the part of the State. I think it's a protocol commission we're giving the commission to report and this parallel element of the investigation of the criminal responsibility of those who led to bankruptcy, in fact, to the plundering of a state, led to the bankruptcy of such a bank. In this regard, I am voting on the draft Law on the continuation of appropriate procedures for a period of one and a half years. Well, let's add more precisely. How do we write it? By May 1, 2009, are you satisfied with this? It'll be two years. By January 1, 2009, right? Continue the process of liquidation of the sharer commercial agro-industry bank “Ukraine” until 1 January 2009 and, as a whole, adopt it as a law. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please. [[11:59:50]] For 246 And the board's information on what I've been saying, we can still do it at the request of the deputies. I think it would be right to get the information you need in May, right? There's going to be a break now, but I can see what the procedure is asking for, Valentin Grigorovich, I can't help but give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u86	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues! As you can see, when considering the relevant bills for almost a month, the leaders of the professional committees, representatives of the so - called, parliamentary united opposition, truth united or long ago, ignore the Supreme Council and do not carry out their direct duties, do not go to the parliamentary rostrum for reports from those or other issues of the Supreme Council. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm going to make an offer: to you, to lead the Supreme Council with appropriate conversations with them, and you can play enough to determine their future position in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u87	I'm taking this proposal into account. The interviews go on and on. And I hope that all deputies will be responsible for their responsibilities. A sample of that, just as the head of the opposition committee was on the stand, he reported. But I agree with you that it's not exactly normal to talk abstractly about democracy. For the Ukrainian Parliament, this is commonplace. Nevertheless, your offer is taken into account. In the meantime, I'm calling it a half-hour break, until 12:30.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u88	We're continuing the meeting. Project 2551 is under consideration, registration number, this is the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxation of goods temporarily imported into Ukrainian customs territory. Temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. Reported by Minister of Economy, Deputy Minister of Economy Petnicky Valeriy Teziyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u89	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on taxation of goods temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, designed to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the 1990 Istanbul Convention on Temporary Importation, which Ukraine joined in 2004. The corresponding Ukrainian Law was passed on March 24, 2004. The bill aims at improving the taxation of imported goods from non-residents of Ukraine to the customs territory of Ukraine for the purpose of manufacturing or performing work, but not for further sale. Most European countries are actively using the Istanbul Convention, which provides for the taxation of goods temporarily imported, depending on the term and residence of such goods in their customs territory, such as the step-by-step payment of taxes. Regrettably, Ukraine’s legislation has not yet provided such an opportunity. The adoption of the proposed project will allow for the execution or production of technical tools and equipment that are not available in Ukraine for individual projects or programs. For example, building roads, bridges, geological exploration, and so forth. In addition, such a mechanism is proposed to introduce a step-by-step import duty and value added tax every month of 3 percent over a three-year period for goods for which, according to the Customs Code, temporary import with partial exemption from taxation may be granted. At the same time, the implementation of the specified mechanism provides for changes and additions to the Customs Code to the definition of goods for which temporary import with partial exemption from taxation may be granted, as well as the granting of the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to quickly identify the priority areas of the economy in which such goods are needed. Again, allow the Cabinet of Ministers to approve a list of the goods involved. It is also proposed to amend the laws of Ukraine concerning the single customs tariff and the value added tax on the determination of taxation by import duties.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u90	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u91	tax on added value in respect of goods that are temporarily imported. With regard to the economic effect of implementing the bill, considering that the temporary import operation is currently not taxed with import duties and value added taxes, implementation of the proposed mechanism will not result in the loss of the State budget. According to the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be taken as a basis. During the consideration of the bill at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on financial and banking matters on 6 February 2007, proposals were made on the need to define a mechanism for the administration of the step-by-step payment of taxes that may be taken into account when preparing the draft for second reading. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the draft Ukrainian Law and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u92	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who would like to make a statement on this matter from the deputies? Oh, from the committee, Mikhail Vasilovich Melniczuk, please. I'm sorry, I missed this episode. Mikhailo Vasilovich Melniczuk, of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u93	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking at the February 6th meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine on Goods Taxation. The bill provides for the introduction of Ukrainian legislation in accordance with the provisions of the Convention on Temporary Imports. At present, Ukraine's current legislation on the issue of temporary importation customs regulations does not contain the rules that are being implemented by most European countries, according to which the amount of customs duties and taxes levied on temporary importation of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine for the purpose of production or performance is determined depending on the duration of such goods in the customs territory. On the basis of the convention, the bill is intended to determine the order of taxation of goods temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for the purpose of production or work. Thus, it should be noted that the adoption of the bill will allow for greater economic efficiency, the activity of Ukrainian operators through the inclusion of goods that are imported into Ukraine for some time to be used in manufacturing, services, or work. In view of the above, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on taxation of goods temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted as a basis in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anyone who wishes to express his thoughts about this law “for” or “against” is listed. Savocin Hennaday Anatoliyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u95	National Deputy of Ukraine Savosin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I think this bill needs to be supported, and this is a decision made by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. First of all, this will enable our manufacturers to work out certain positions for the development of computer technology, other non-produced products in Ukraine. That's why I'm counting on this bill to be supported and voted for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u96	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u97	Chečetov, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft law is aimed at determining the order of taxation of goods temporarily imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for the purpose of manufacturing or carrying out work to achieve economic and social results and profit, but not for the further sale and expansion of the temporary import operations of business entities, since such operations provide for the possibility of paying proper payments to the schedule. The adoption of the bill will reduce the financial and tax burden on Ukrainian business entities by providing them with technical restocking and upgrading programmes that require significant financial contributions. The adoption of the bill will reduce the tax burden on Ukrainian subjects on temporary import of goods into the customs territory of Ukraine for commercial purposes, which will allow them not to divert the circulation of taxes on customs duties, to collect them for the next purchase of the necessary materials, and to speed up the reconstruction of domestic industrial production. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt this bill on the first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Deputies have spoken. I think we're going to support the proposal and the committee, and the Cabinet of Ministers, based not only on the advantages that this law foresees and bringing into line with the international ones that it ratified, adopted Ukraine, but also on the fact that today, under the mark of temporary stay in Ukraine, a group of goods or individual goods are being committed serious offences, because in fact these goods are trespassing in Ukraine and are then being implemented. So this is one of the ways of abuse, it needs to be taken into account and, in Russian, it's used to "intervent" these possibilities. This law makes it possible to bring this situation closer to the point where there is no such abuse. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:40:28]] For 243 Decision taken. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Production, Production and Use of Precious Metals and Precious Stones and Control of Transactions is under consideration. Reported by Deputy Finance Minister Sergey Megonovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u99	Dear Alexander Alexander, Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production, production and use of precious metals and precious stones and control of transactions with them has been developed with a view to carrying out some of its articles in accordance with the rules of law in force, as well as to implementing Ukraine's procedure for joining the International Organization for the Traffic in Diamonds. The draft provides for a section of the second article 18 of the Act to be supplemented by a paragraph on State control of diamond transactions in accordance with the requirements of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, which will enable the latter to meet the condition of accession to the Kimberley Process - a collegiate, voluntary, inter-State body acting in accordance with a UN resolution aimed at preventing trade in so-called conflict or bloody diamonds. Ukraine announced its intention to participate in the Kimberley Process at a meeting of representatives of the 37 governments and the European Union in November 2002 in Switzerland. The meeting adopted a declaration that approved and put into effect, as of 1 January 2003, a fundamental document of international diamond and raw materials trade rules called the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. The Kimberley Process countries, now 71, are creating a kind of clean and transparent diamond market. Countries, not members of the Kimberley Process, are outside this environment and have no right to import diamonds into their territory. The main conditions for joining the Kimberley Process participants are the implementation of certification requirements in national legislation, the issue of a Kimberley Process certificate under defined rules, the appointment of an authorized diamond import authority. Today, according to the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Minfin Order, which defines the conditions for the import, export and customs of diamonds. An authorized authority, the National Hemological Center, has been appointed. Another amendment proposed to the law in force relates to the clarifications and additions to article 22 with a view to bringing its provisions into line with the Ukrainian Enforcement Law and to resolving problems related to the payment of fines.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u100	Allow me to finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u101	for the sale of jewelry and household products made of precious metals that do not have a national sample mark, or they have a fingerprint of a forged state test glue. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u102	Please sit down. From the committee is Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u103	The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 13 February 2007, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Production, Production and Use of Precious Metals and Precious Stones and Control of Operations, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The purpose of the bill is to introduce separate articles of the law on State regulation of production, production, the use of precious metals and precious stones and the control of operations with them. In accordance with current legislation and the conditions for Ukraine to join the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council in its conclusion of 26. 01 determines that the draft law may be adopted on the basis of the comments made. The members of the committee unanimously supported the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of production, production, the use of precious metals and precious stones and the control of operations with it, and decided to bring it up to date for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and proposed to take it up as a basis in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u104	I see. Have a seat, please. If you would like to express your support or support for the bill, please write down. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u105	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Communist faction has carefully considered the draft amendments proposed by the government to the Law on State regulation of production, production, the use of precious metals and precious stones and the control of operations with them.” We believe that this bill should have been, not only could it have been supported, but it must have been supported. For what reasons? Well, first of all, the adoption of this law, the introduction, the introduction of these changes, makes all procedures with precious stones, precious metals more transparent, more controlled. This is the first time. Second, they, these changes to the law, they give the right order for the transactions. And the third. I might not particularly stress that if the rules are broken, they are additional revenue to the budget, but for those who do not want to operate in a transparent field, for those who do not want to act in accordance with the current legislation, they are appropriate penalties, and then, for those who do not want to operate in a transparent field, for those who do not want to act in accordance with the current legislation, they are appropriate penalties, and then, for those who have to fill the state budget. Today, we have many problems that need to be solved through the replenishment of the State Budget, and these will be unnecessary additional funds that can be used for these purposes. So this is about the fact that the Communist faction will support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u107	Chechtev, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. As a result of the changes proposed in article 22 of the Law, it is envisaged that the State budget of Ukraine will be supplemented by the cost of payment of fines if the violators do not comply with a fine order within 15 days of the date of her delivery. The draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production of precious metals and precious stones and the control of transactions with them are amended to section 2 of Article 18; it is supplemented by a paragraph on State control of diamond transactions in accordance with the requirements of the certification scheme and the Kimberley Process. Part 5 of article 22 on industrial fines in the event of a failure to enforce a fine for violators within 15 days of the date of delivery. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Control of Production and Use of Precious Metals and Precious Stones and the Control of Operations will allow Ukraine to comply with the terms of its accession to the Kimberley Process of a collective voluntary inter-State body, which acts in accordance with the United Nations resolution aimed at preventing trade, so-called, conflict or bloody diamonds, and to increase the amount of funds available to the State budget for the imposition of fines in the event of non-compliance by violators with their obligations in the conduct of activities with precious metals and precious stones. The faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine proposes to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u108	Thank you. The statements and participants in the discussions and proposals of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee of the One Secrets -- should be accepted in the first reading, because it organizes transactions with jewels in general, including diamonds in Ukraine in the context of the well-known Kimberley Convention or Process, as it is called, to work in one scheme with the world. I propose to vote in favour of this bill. I'll put him to your vote. [[12:49:37]] For 246 I have to take it into account that my card didn't vote for something, so we're going to consider 247. Roger that. A bill is being considered to regulate the provision of benefits for maintenance services for buildings and buildings and adjuvant areas, utilities, and the acquisition of solid domestic fuel. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing, Anatoly Alexiyovich Orlov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u109	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill on the regulation of the provision of benefits for the maintenance of buildings and buildings and trailers, utilities and the acquisition of solid domestic fuel is primarily aimed at improving the social protection system, creating a level playing field for citizens with regard to the provision of social guarantees provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and other laws of Ukraine. Over the last decade, more than 25 laws have been passed that provide housing benefits. Yet no legislative act has been adopted to determine the only order in which they are to be given. The absence of a system-wide legal aid regulation creates some difficulties in the practical application of the order in which they are granted. One of the main factors contributing to the problems of the scheme of benefits is that the setting of standards of use for services not for all categories of pensioners is the more vulnerable categories of citizens; the non-definition of the circle of family benefits on which the benefits of housing and utilities are extended, allowing all citizens living with the benefits to be used unjustifiably. According to current legislation, more than 40 categories of citizens are entitled to benefit from the payment of house and building and innuendo services: disabled persons and wargoers, Chaes disaster fighters, citizens with special merit before the Father, and some working categories of citizens on professional grounds. However, in 15 laws of Ukraine, the right to housing and utility benefits is established within the limits of the rules provided for by the law in force and 10 by the law, without regulation. In particular, the Ukrainian Act on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine, “On Education”, “On the Status of War Veterans”,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u110	Allow me to complete the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u111	This legal situation has brought about unequal conditions for citizens who benefit from equal pay, complaints, and ambiguities in the interpretation of laws. Since most legislative acts provide benefits not only for specific categories of citizens but for members of their families, the draft law allows for a clear definition of the composition of the family of citizens who use housing benefits. The adoption of the law will allow, at all times, legislative acts in part relating to the payment of housing and utility benefits to the sole criterion, the exclusion of differences in their remit, the determination of the circle of members of the family of the pensioner, the realization of the right of citizens to a state-guaranteed reduction in the payment of housing and utility services. Taking into account the relevance and urgency of the solution to the problems related to the granting of benefits, I propose to support the draft Ukrainian Law on the Ordering of Payments, on the Maintenance of Houses and Buildings, on Public Services and on the Acquisition of Solid Domestic Fuel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u112	Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, a member of the Committee Vasil Vasilovich Demčišen has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u113	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The bill proposes to harmonize the conditions for granting discounts for the use of municipal services to different categories of the population. One of the main factors contributing to the problems of the scheme of benefits is that the setting of standards of consumption of services, not for all categories of benefits, is the more vulnerable categories of citizens, the non-definition of the circle of members of the family of benefits, which extend to benefits from housing and utility services, allowing all citizens living with the benefits to be used unjustly. According to the National Academy of Sciences estimates, 31 per cent of the population, 13.8 per cent of the population in Ukraine is entitled to benefits according to legislation: with social status - 31 per cent of the population, with professional status - 13.8 per cent of the population, which is about 15 million in Ukraine. Nationals or nine percent of families. The bill proposes to regulate social benefits in a number of legal acts, laws and regulations, which Anatoly Alexiyovich has just talked about, that 25 laws have been adopted in Ukraine, which provide housing and utility benefits, but no legislation has been adopted to determine the only order in which they are granted. The absence of a system-wide legal aid regulation makes it difficult to put them into practice. The committee supports the government's proposal to organise the benefits to individual categories of citizens, primarily by professional means, and agrees with the General Scientific and Scientific Administration's comments, such as the establishment of consumption standards and the definition of the circle of persons that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u114	Let me finish, but you're a little bit faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u115	On the other hand, the bill provides for the financing of the expenses associated with the granting of benefits to individual categories of citizens who are not regulated by valid legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u116	Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u117	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u118	Who would like to make a statement on this subject, supporting or not supporting this project, please sign up. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. And Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u119	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, town of Zaporozhye Dear colleagues, it was no accident that two representatives of two committees were enrolled — social policy and pensioners and disabled people. The point is that this bill has not been discussed on our committees, and that's why we'd like to express our point of view. The thing is, giving social benefits by professional means is an anachronism that we should eventually get rid of. Therefore, we should certainly welcome the legislative initiative that allows us to unify these benefits, and eventually, sooner or later, you and I will definitely go to our home aid. You just see what's happening in society right now. Someone who's very wise is going to a session of some city council or city council, and they're making a decision about 10 percent of the housing and utility tariffs are falling. I apologize, but it will be used by all: both the poor, and the rich, those who can pay, and those who cannot pay. So social assistance, if it's social assistance, has to carry an address. address character, first. Secondly, this bill clearly sets out the standard by which a person is entitled to the benefits or is not entitled to the benefits. Now we see that for a certain category of our communities, it's already a kind of income thing -- to come on a fancy car, get unemployment money and that sort of thing. Tennis also has its own nature and that we thoughtlessly at one time gave such a kind of benefit. It is clear, then, that this bill needs to be supported and considered as one of the first or principal steps on the way to replacing benefits with professional signs of social benefits and providing them. This help is definitely needed on purpose. We will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u120	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please don't spread false information. I mean, the initiators came to Zitomir for a session and offered to lower the tariff by 10 percent. By the way, it wasn't their political supporters and it was introduced there. But it's professionally introduced, based on the calculations that the Council has made. And they said, "You do politics, go to Kiev, and we're responsible for these tariffs and we're not going to look at anything." I think we need to be specific about this kind of information. Zibenko has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u121	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction welcomes the bill as an attempt to unify the relief situation. At the same time, I would like to make a number of warnings, and I would like to ask very distinguished colleagues and government representatives to be very responsible when we take these steps. Well, first of all, when we talk about the 40 categories of Ukrainian citizens who are now forced to use the benefits, we have to conclude that it's not their fault that the state has made them users of these benefits. They, I think, would not have received these benefits with a much lighter heart, but they would have an appropriate salary or an adequate pension, in order not to approach anyone, to use any kind of benefit, but to be counted for appropriate, let's say, utility services from their own wallet. So I would ask that we understand that this is not the fault of these people, this is their misery. The other one. You know, I, with all due respect for the State Budget Act, nevertheless, realize that the fact that we define each year around family members with a corresponding article on the State Budget does not honor our legislation and does not honor the country. Indeed, we have time and time to identify ourselves with those who are involved in the ranks of the alcoholics so that the rules of the game do not change each year. And the third. I would like to say that as far as fuel is concerned, I would like to speed up the solution to the problem of article 43 of the mining law, where it was about providing solid fuel to certain categories of Ukrainian citizens. The Communist faction suggests that this document be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u122	Thank you. And I repeat the words of Peter Stepanovich, who did not say on the air: “and work very seriously on it in preparing for the second reading”, because there are certain nuances in this project that need to be further developed so that there are no conflicts, contradictions between this document and the two dozen laws that regulate such issues already. So I have every reason to put this project to a vote. Please prepare for the vote. Take your seats. There's a vote. [[13:02:36]] “For” 245 deputies were caught, the decision was taken. A draft law amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act is under consideration. [[concerning the approval of the text of the oath]] Stanislaw Mikhailovich Piscun, a national deputy, has the floor. From the committee, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u123	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, registration number 2240 of 29 September 2006, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy Volga Vasil Alexandrovich. [[on the approval of the text of the oaths of the Prosecutor's Office]] In accordance with article 46, part 2, of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act, persons who are appointed for the first time as assistant prosecutors, prosecutors, departments, prosecutors and prosecutors accept the oath of an official of the Prosecutor's Office, the text of which is approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, until now, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not approved the text of an oath by the prosecutor's office, and no prosecutor's officer, including the Attorney-General of Ukraine, has sworn an oath of allegiance to the people of Ukraine, provided for in article 46 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act. The President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian National Deputies, internal affairs officials, the Ukrainian Security Service, and the judiciary are bound to take an oath, serving the people of Ukraine, which further warrants the approval of these persons in their respective positions. Since prosecutors do not make an appropriate oath, they cannot be released from office for breach of oath, unlike civil servants or judges. The fact contributes to the abuse of prosecutors in certain cases and creates social tensions in society. The absence of Ukrainian law on the prosecution, the text of an oath by a prosecutor and direct rules on the dismissal of prosecutors, including the violation of a specific oath, have a particularly negative effect on the activities of the procurator's offices. Thus, the adoption of the bill will not only contribute to the removal of the gaps in Ukraine’s prosecutorial laws but also contribute positively to society as a whole. The bill provides for amendments to articles 2nd, 46th of the Ukrainian Act "Pro.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u124	Let me finish because it's interesting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u125	As well as supplementing the existing Ukrainian Act with article 15 with article 46.2, such as the bill establishes the text of the oath of prosecutors, for all employees and directors of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office and foresees their release for breach of oaths by those appointed to office. Members of the Law Enforcement Committee considered the bill and unanimously supported it. We ask you, Your Honor, to support this bill as a result of the first reading of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u126	Thank you, sit down, please. Ukraine’s president, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenko, suggests that his opinion be taken into account when considering the bill. In this regard, his representative, Roman Mikhailovich, is given the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u127	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine generally supports the idea of a bill approving the text of an oath by a prosecutor. In spite of the fact that article 46 of the Ukrainian Procuratorship Act provides that persons first appointed as assistants to prosecutors, prosecutors, departments, prosecutors, prosecutors and prosecutors are sworn in by a prosecutor whose text has been approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Parliament has not approved such an oath since 1993. At the same time, however, the text proposed by the drafter of the bill of oath, according to the President of Ukraine, needs substantial work, since it is excessively eloquent and does not fully reflect the primary focus of the prosecutor's activities on the protection of human rights and freedoms and of the citizen. This is exactly what the President of Ukraine said about the text of the oath itself. Not to the fullest extent and according to the President of Ukraine, the bill deals with the issue of swearing by the Attorney-General. According to the President of Ukraine, it is considered appropriate to establish an oath-making procedure by the Attorney-General when he takes office regardless of whether he has made it before. The bill also provides that the breach of an oath is the basis for the dismissal of a prosecutor. Thus, the bill foresees only such a measure, not a legal responsibility, but a disciplinary responsibility. The language here was also used by the profile committee to report that judges are supposed to have such an institution as an oath, but in the case of a violation of a judge's oath, not only a disciplinary one, but also perhaps a legal one, perhaps even a criminal one. At the same time, the bill does not contain the order of conduct in matters of breach of an oath by employees.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u128	Let me continue to think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u129	It's literally 10 seconds. Prosecutors, in particular, do not answer the question of who is entitled to initiate the question of whether there are signs of a breach of an oath. I mean, these are procedural norms that are not reflected in this text of the bill. Thus, according to what has been taught, the President of Ukraine proposes to direct the bill to the subject of the legislative initiative for further work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u130	Thank you. Please sit down. Please make a statement on this matter, MPs. Why don't you sign up for the show before that? And in the course of the presentation, answer this question: can you take into account both the President's perfectly correct comments and the expert management when working on the second reading of this project. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u131	Thank you, Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, it's quite obvious that the bill is a parliamentary initiative, it's on time. And the information that came from both the profile committee and the President's representative in the Supreme Council confirms that. On the other hand, there are certain comments about the content of the document. I am absolutely convinced that these problems can be solved as effectively in the preparation stage for second reading as they can after returning to work. But getting the document back is a waste of time. So I am absolutely convinced and on behalf of the faction, I propose to support this document in the first reading. And you have to take into account the warnings made today by both the Committee and the Scientific and Scientific Administration and by the President's representative in the Supreme Council for second reading. So the faction of Communists supports this bill, the adoption of it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u132	What does Paul Gnatovich Sulkovski think about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u133	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I'm also joining the previous speaker. I don't know if this bill will help, but I think we should really take it. Because the way our prosecutors work today, I don't speak for the Attorney General's Office anymore, especially the regional significance, it's just embarrassing to us people's deputies. I'd like to say a few things just by taking the opportunity. In particular, the Ravenna District Attorney's Office, you know, the previous governor, we have this example, Alexandre Alexandrovich, because you know very well what in the years of independence all four previous summonses were in Parliament -- Basil Red. And so President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko appoints him governor. Thus, in 2005, he managed to issue more than 30 orders for the administration, which he severely violated the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution on freedom of conscience. The prosecutor’s office observed no protest before the court, virtually not filed. Well, we've done everything with God's help, we've removed the prosecutor. But you think what? We hope the new prosecutor will correct the situation, but to this day all the district attorney's deputies who have observed these gross cynical violations of the official are working with the new prosecutor. Moreover, the previous prosecutor, who was removed, Mr. Orikhovsky, is now in office in the same district attorney’s office. So I think that this bill needs to be supported and, I think, really, there will be a more specific clearance of such prosecutors, such prosecutors, particularly those who are still in place and working here today, particularly in the Plains region. I don't think it's just Ravensky or much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u134	Thank you. Good thing you didn't tell anyone else, because maybe you don't have the full information, you're more focused on the Plainlands. Here is Minus ’ opinion on this subject, please express it. Please report to the protocol immediately. This is Inna Ivanovna Jemelyanova, I repeat, what you said. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u135	Thank you. Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. With regard to these two additions. Article 15 sets out the basis for exemption and is supplemented by a new article on the acceptance of oaths by prosecutors. But on the basis of her release, there's just one thing -- it's a violation of an oath. Let's focus now on the text of the oath. It is absolutely correct, but it does not provide clear criteria for what should be the responsibility of the prosecutor’s representative: to strengthen the authority of the State; to adhere strictly to the Constitution. I'm in favour of proposing an oath institution, but for clear regulation at the legislative level: which criteria should be the responsibility of the prosecutor's office, who should attract him, what procedure to call for responsibility, which procedure to be followed. All these positions have to be settled. So I have a proposal to send this project for further development.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u136	We have concluded our discussion of the matter. I would like to take the lead in the discussion with Another John. The point is that all oaths, from the oath of a military officer to the MP of Parliament and the President, are general in nature. You should know that. Because otherwise we're going to have to write, for example, in the prosecutor's oath: not to take bribes or if the brothers, no more of that size, so much minimum wages or whatever. Then that would be the basis for his release if he exceeded that standard. Well, you can't go into that kind of detail. On the other hand, the broader the context of an oath, the easier it is to apply legislation to the guilty one who violates that oath, for example, does not protect the sovereignty of the State or does anything else contrary to the requirements of legislation. Then you can be evaluated. And there's a reason for your release. You can describe in more detail, considering that the entire context of the claims may be in breach of an oath. I think we should pay attention to that. But according to the procedure for dealing with this issue, and the committee is proposing to accept it on the first reading, the president is proposing that we work on it before adoption. And I think so. I will, of course, make a proposal to the committee, but you have your own opinion, we should still support the President's opinion in this regard and work on this document, including the opinion of the Ministry of Justice, as expressed here by her representative, the deputy minister. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal to adopt this document on the basis of the first reading. [[13:16:33]] For-34 There are no votes. So I'm voting on a second proposal: send this document for further processing and reexamine it. And I think you could do that, literally, for the next sessional week. I'm putting this motion to the vote, please support it. [[13:17:05]] For 228 Decision taken. And I would like to thank the initiators of this bill, particularly Vasil Volzi, who is now ill, because the subject itself is topical and needs to be addressed. This is a problem that needs to be solved. Draft law, registration number 2428 amending the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act. [[on the harmonization with the Constitution of Ukraine of the position of the Attorney-General]] Stanislaw Mikhailovich Piscon as the most experienced member of the Legal Policy Committee on this subject, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u137	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Alexander Alexanderovich! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian law amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act, registration number 2428 of October 30, 2006, submitted by National Deputy Mishchenk Sergey Grigorovitch. [[on the harmonization with the Constitution of Ukraine of the position of the Attorney-General]] The purpose of the adoption of the Act is to harmonize the rules of legislation by bringing the provisions of the Ukrainian Procuratorate Act into line with those amended in accordance with the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine" number 224 of 8 December 2004 by articles 121, 122 of the Constitution of Ukraine on the appointment and release of the Attorney General of Ukraine, as well as to provide the Prosecutor with an additional function of overseeing the observance of the rights and freedoms of citizens, upholding the laws of the executive authorities, the authorities of local self-government, their officials and officials. The bill provides for amendments to articles 2 and 5 of the Pro procuratorial act on the harmonization with the Constitution of Ukraine of the order and the release of the Attorney General of Ukraine, as well as additional functions under the Ukrainian Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, register 2.2.4. 8.12.2004. The adoption of the bill does not require additional spending on the state budget. According to the general conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the bill can be supported in the first reading. This is just what it's about. You know that in connection with changes to the Constitution it is written that the Attorney General is appointed and dismissed by the President of Ukraine for office under the consent of the Supreme Council in both conclusions, in both cases. Support the bill, the draft Ukrainian law, amending the Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Act on compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine's position on the Attorney-General of Ukraine and adoption
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u138	Okay. Report accepted. What do they want with the MPs? Sign up. May I vote? There are no willing speakers. And, no, Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski has a desire to express his opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u139	First of all, I think that, Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, honourable colleagues, I don't think there's any point in discussing this bill just because Svetoslav Mikhailovich Piscun is our colleague today, and I think he was a very strong prosecutor general. I don't think we've had a prosecutor like that in Ukraine, but I think he's going back to the Attorney General's Office. And it will really put, it will take control of the implementation of the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine. So I urge all the people's deputies to really support this project and to thank Holy Michael's Piscoon for the joint, such fruitful work. And I think this law will benefit Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u140	Thank you, Pavel Gnatovich. True, you took the time to reprove a specific candidate instead of talking more about the content of the law. If there's time for that, then you'll be able to, we'll count in advance what you've already said in an appropriate manner. Here I have a question for the initiators to make these changes. First. They're absolutely constitutional, all the changes bring the law into line with the Constitution. And the observation made by the Committee on Professional Affairs, more faithfully, by the Expert Directorate, refers only to one point, instead of saying that once a year the Attorney-General informs the Supreme Council about the state of legality, to replace it with the words: “information about the performance by the Prosecutor of its functions as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine”. In my opinion, this proposal would be more accurate if we wrote it down, then this project could be adopted as a law in general, because it corresponds to the Constitution in every letter. Can I do that? Then I have this offer. First, let's vote on the basis. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. [[13:22:50]] For 232 There is an offer to accept, taking into account this observation of the Expert Office, which is supported by the authors, the general vote. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[13:23:17]] For 236 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the pension provision of health workers]] Project, registration number 2058. Here is the reporter for the Ukrainian National Deputy Hubsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich as the author of this document. I invite him to make a statement on this matter. Is there a Volodymyrn Stas from the Committee of Love? Aunt Dmitrovna Bachtieva. She's on her way out now. Then I'm making a motion to withdraw this bill. Please. For the next session, let them consider it. [[13:24:24]] For 236 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, registration number 3019, here is the reporter – Klukkowski Yuri Bogdanović. [[on the term of office of the relevant authorities]] Zapuk, Stepan Zapuk will report to him, this document from the initiators and co-rapporteur, Sergey Leonidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u141	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Ukraine Act on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, after the Constitution of Ukraine, establishes the term of office of the local council and the village, the city head. However, this does not resolve the problem of the mandate of the local council, which is not chosen during the local elections. Such a situation occurs when the Council is held in consecutive elections or the council of the newly formed territorial community is elected. A similar problem applies to the term of office of a village, a village, a city head chosen on an out - of - turn, repeat, or first election. In addition, the law does not clearly link the issue of the early termination of the authority of the head of the territorial community and his dismissal. In this regard, it is possible that the head’s authority is suspended on a permanent basis, yet it remains in office. With regard to the terms of office of the heads and alternate heads of district, district, and district councils in cities that are chosen not by direct elections but by the councils themselves, the law in force contains conflicting standards. On the one hand, part one of article 55 provides for the selection of the head within the term of the council’s authority. On the other hand, Part 2 of the same article states that the head of the council exercises his authority to elect his head for a new calling. However, the election of the head of the new calling board takes place after the appointment of the newly elected members of the council, and so after the loss of the authority of the previous board, which falls into the colossal section of this article of the law. Moreover, a situation may arise when the head of the previous vocation loses his seat as a member of the council, and he continues to exercise his head’s responsibilities in connection with what he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u142	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u143	That when the council of the previous vocation loses its seat as a member of the council, it continues to exercise its responsibilities in view of the fact that the council for some reason has not chosen a new head. A similar coalition regarding the council’s deputy head is contained in section 1 of article 56 of the Law. The existence of such conflicts and inconsistencies creates problems in the practical application of the law, which has repeatedly provoked violent conflicts in the relevant local governments and thus prevented the effective exercise of the right of territorial communities to local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u144	Please sit down. From the committee, Sergey Kuzmenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! First, the committee proposes that the law be adopted in the first reading. The committee believes that the observation of scientific expertise can be taken into account when the law is being developed in the second reading, as well as the observation of the Committee on Legal Policy. There are a few moments where you could stop, specific suggestions, such as, in article 42, the first sentence of part 1 in the original edition. There are other suggestions. But all of this can be taken into account when preparing the law for second reading. You can't help but notice that. that the law is essential because there are unresolved issues that occasionally lead to conflicts that distract both time and resources from local self-government. So the committee's proposal is to adopt the law in the first reading. And I'm asking my colleagues to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u146	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Sign up. Yes, Matthew Wallery, please. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u147	The bill proposed a number of amendments to the law concerning the term of office of rural, rural and urban heads. Given that the Constitution of Ukraine has been amended by Act No. 2222 of 08.12.2004, the term of office of the relevant councils shall be five years. As for the term of office of the respective heads, it has not been amended. The situation thus arises: the relevant territorial community elects the council for a term of five years. The person who heads it is, unfortunately, four years of his or her term of office. Thus, there is a legal conflict. This bill is fortunately correcting this conflict. I therefore believe that this bill should be adopted on first reading as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u148	Thank you. Are there no more speakers? Let's be clear. But, dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to thanking the authors for their work, but not to the end, because they leave the term of being in a rural, rural head for four years -- and create a legal colossal, saving by saying that his mandate has ceased since the beginning of the next session. On the one hand, they say that four years, on the other hand, the next, will be a new meeting in five years. So one year is practically illegal. So I'm proposing not to be wise, but to write down immediately that the term of authority of the village head is five years, not four, as the authors suggest. [[of the village]] With this amendment to article 12, which is not four years old, but five years, I put it to the vote on the first reading. Please vote. [[13:31:54]] For 240 The bill was adopted in the first reading. I'd like the profile committee to work and take a look at the comments that have been captured. Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u149	Okay, thanks. A draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Administrative Offences on Administrative Offences in Transport is under consideration, registration number 2888. Reported Gusarov Sergey Mikolaiovich, head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u150	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Administrative Offences on Administrative Offences in Transport will be reported as one of the authors of this bill as co-rapporteur with the Committee on Legislative Protection. So please give me four minutes to perform. It is very important that this bill is put forward for consideration by the Supreme Council. The current magnitude of road traffic injury in Ukraine, the severity of the consequences, is much higher than that in most countries of the world. By the year 2000, the number of road accidents of the dead and injured had been steadily decreasing. Traffic disorder, a sharp increase in the number of adventures, especially with severe consequences, has been observed since 2001, following the adoption of the April 5 amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences. In fact, the State inspectors were deprived of their authority over traffic violations. This has resulted in a paradoxical situation: When government spending is spent on keeping people in pursuits that are artificially deprived of the ability to do what they are assigned to do, they cannot function effectively. In all European countries, however, police officers are a person of authority and really provide road safety. The Supreme Court of Ukraine is initiating the issue of the transfer of powers from the courts to the State Inspectorate. It points to the overload of the courts, the inability of the courts to implement the principle of irreversibility. It is necessary to create conditions to prevent the impunity of wrongdoers, to stop the unnecessary burden of citizens to the courts, and to dispel the courts from performing their own functions. Instead, implement the State's appointment by giving real importance to influence. This project is just the first step towards a legislative solution to the complex.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u151	Give it a chance to finish because he's gonna report it to you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u152	This project is only the first step towards a legislative solution to the complex problem of road safety. It provides for the transfer of authorizations for dealing with most of the categories of road traffic cases from the courts to the State Automobile Inspectorate. In the courts ’ jurisdiction, there remain those offences that apply to the removal of the right to drive and to the removal of the vehicle. The fines do not change. The minimum fine for a minor breach remains 8.5 bracelets. For comparison, in Belgium fines vary from 19 euros to 140 euros for minor fines. In Germany, if the fine is up to 150 euros, it is paid at the crime scene. It may seem like we're going back to the old man. No, it's not true. There is no payment of fines in place. But there is a right to appeal to a police officer’s decision to bring a person to justice if the person disagrees with that decision. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council believes that the bill can be adopted as a basis. The Supreme Court recommends acceptance as a law. The Legislative Security Committee of the seventh February of this year supported the project and recommended that the Supreme Council accept it on its first reading as a basis. However, the solution to the problem of road safety is not limited to the transfer of authority. It's because the Supreme Council is currently looking at several projects of this kind. In view of this, I ask that the project be re-readed and that other projects be referred to the Committee on Environmental Protection Legislation as a profile committee on issues for processing into a single bill. This is in line with the Supreme Council’s Rules. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u153	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Would you like to share in the discussion? If you have one, write it down. Chief, please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u154	Dear Lord Chairman! Dear National Deputies! I believe that the bill deserves attention because the courts are overloaded with administrative matters related to traffic violations, we need to dismantle the courts, allow fines to be imposed by the administrative authority, and because of the administrative justice that has been introduced in Ukraine, every citizen, and in particular the owner of the rights, the driver's rights, can sue the administrative authority in court. So I propose to support what was presented today in order for the courts to be unloaded in this case. And let the administrative authorities do it. The only thing we need, of course, to think about the future is to increase the size of administrative fines, because we see what happens on the road, especially in large cities, especially in the capital of Ukraine, when there are extremely many offences, but extremely low fines for these offences. So I support what is being done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u155	Thank you. Question completed. Let's be clear. And I think, if there's no objection, we're going to put to the vote the proposal that the reporter and co-rapporteur made in the same person about sending this bill, taking into account that we're actually preparing a broader Road Traffic Act and related around this problem, for the elaboration of 2888. For processing. Please vote. [[13:39:04]] For 211 Or not. All of it. The factions, please. Region Party – 181, “Block Timoshenko” – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 1, socialists – 4, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 1. So, dear colleagues, I'm calling your attention once again to the words of Gusarov's colleague. He said that you and I are now considering a rather large bill on serious changes - the Road Traffic Act. That is, what Sergey Petrovich said there is a higher responsibility for administrative penalties for breaking the rules and a whole set of problems. So it would be logical for this bill to be sent for work and it was taken into account, and it was taken into account in the work on, let me put it this way, more basic law. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? Before the vote, please support. [[13:40:26]] For 221 The bill is thus rejected. Let's count when we adopt the law that we talked about. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Pension Insurance is under consideration. [[about working under harmful conditions]] Registration number. Now, now, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning adoption]] Registration number 2562. According to Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. It's about adoption. What about adoption, or how will it be Ukrainian? Please, Mikolo Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u156	Ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting the joint work of the Department of State for the Adoption and Protection of the Rights of the Child of the Ministry of Youth and Youth, who have appealed to the committee that I presided over to speed up the process of improving the adoption procedure for foreigners and for our citizens, to eliminate the problems that have taken place, and to jointly approve the bill in this case in the first reading. We've connected with this group of representatives of the vast majority of factions, this is the Philindashian, Gretzak, Levchenk, Bondarenko, Tomenka bill. And I'm reporting three basics of this money. The first idea is to ban or more accurately bring about the fact that foreigners have the right to adopt only if they are married. We had a number of unfortunate cases, especially the resonance, when one citizen of the United States adopted three children and was subsequently accused by the Baker City Police Department against. The charges of sexual assault on these children. We had other unpleasant experiences. And if we look at it, we've analyzed 150 countries with the department, in the vast majority of countries, adoption rights are granted to foreigners or only if this marriage adopts a child to be brought up in a family. Or, let's say there are exceptions to that, let's say, when mom's alone. A single mother herself takes, and a single mother is given the right to do so, especially for single parents, and a serious warning is given to husbands. The second warning applies to the lower threshold of adoption for us, Ukraine. We had the lowest threshold, we're up to 21. Although in most countries it is even higher, 25, 30, and so forth. And the third thesis is the difference between adoption. We've been exhibiting for 45 years. We didn't have that difference, which led to 60-year-old shepherds being taken from their children's homes in some areas. Thus, this difference will enable us to raise our children in a normal way. And I'd like to support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u157	Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Have a seat. Please. Secretary of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, Eugene Filindash
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u158	Dear Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, radio audiences, television viewers. The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on adoption by the Ukrainian National Deputies, Mikola Tomenko, Olena Bondarenko, Catherine Levchenko, Vasil Gritsak and Eugene Filindating foresees a series of changes to the Family Code and the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. These changes are restrictive and are proposed to protect the child from all forms of physical or mental violence and sexual abuse. And first of all, it's suggested that we introduce a distinction between the age of the adoptive parent and the adopted child. A child’s adoptive father may be under the age of 21, and the difference between an adoptive mother and a child may not be greater than 45 years. It's different. It is proposed that the adoption of a child — a Ukrainian citizen — be prevented by a foreigner who is not married. It should be noted that the implementation of such restrictions is entirely in line with international practice. Moreover, the absence of such restrictions in modern Ukrainian legislation has led to Ukrainian children now being able to adopt such foreigners whose chances of adopting a child in their homeland are minimal or, in general, zero. For example, in the United States, the ideal adoptive candidate is a married couple under the age of 35. Families of an older age or of equal citizens who adopt a child in the United States have virtually no chance, except abroad and, in particular, under existing legislation and in Ukraine. In addition, in many countries there are restrictions on the difference between my adoptive father and his adoptive father — 40 or 45 years. The famous story of a citizen named Krueger, a single person who adopted several children from the Herson Children’s House in Ukraine, and then a few years later, the U.S. police have filed criminal charges against him for sexual abuse of these children. It should be noted that the committee held a round table.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u159	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u160	15 seconds. The round table committee discussed these changes that are proposed for consideration by the public, and the participants came up with a round table of unanimous views on the need for a similar law. As for the observations made by the Scientific and Expert Office, they can be taken into account by the committee in the second reading. The Supreme Council Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism recommends that the Supreme Council adopt this law as a basis for first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u161	Thank you, Eugene Vasilovich. Are they willing to discuss matters? How true! Well, then, go ahead and write it down. The dry one should be the first to arrive. Let's check it out. Well, honor others. Please, Mikola Sadowa, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u162	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. As far as the bill is concerned, it is relevant. It is a pity that our country has created conditions that require adoption by foreign citizens, because our citizens are incapable of either morally or physically or materially supporting such children. Thus, government authorities, including the Supreme Council, need to work in this direction in the legislative field to ensure that fewer children are left without parental care. Therefore, in general support of the bill, further work is needed and a number of comments are made in writing. We're going to support this bill, but we're going to have to take it into account. Such an observation is necessary: There is the Family Code of Ukraine and there is article 117, and there is a need for contradictions that may arise in connection with the adoption of this law and the Family Code in order to avoid contradictions and to avoid harm. It is appropriate to look at the difference between the adoptive parent and the adoptive parent at age 45. It's such a discussion ratio, and here we have to work, think about it this way. And last remark. It's going to be what we can, we can't, we're going to increase the number of orphans, and that's going to be a budget overlap. Once again, we have to work in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u163	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u164	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Please give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Andrey Pinchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u165	And you tried so hard. Please, Andrew Pinchuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u166	Pinchuk, Party of Regions. In general, our faction supports this bill, and I would like to point out that there are really a lot of references from foreigners, from public organizations that help, say, work and adopt our children's foreigners, and now the problem is that we really, on the one hand, we don't have the ability to give, say, professionally and accessible. On the other hand, there is no way to track what happens to children after they are adopted. And I think we still need to support this bill in the sense that every child has. should have a chance to grow in a normal family, where there will be normal prosperity, where there will be a future. And now what are the disadvantages in this bill that can be corrected in processing for second reading, but still in this direction we need to work and, let's say, improve adoption at the level of our country, and a very relevant issue of really adopting foreign citizens. That is why we fully support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u167	Thank you. The discussion is over, all of us are unanimous in that. That such a law should be adopted because it improves the adoption system of children. I am voting for the adoption on the basis of Bill No. 2562 amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts. Please vote. [[13:51:24]] For 239. Copy that. Thank you. Dear colleagues, let us consult. If you don't mind, we'll work in this way to exhaust the agenda, and then we'll work on the committees, because we have what to do. Is there any objection? Thank you. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law "On Publicly Compulsory State Pension Insurance" is being considered, registration number 1210-1. [[about working with harmful conditions]] The author of the bill won't report it, Volinec. So I'm going to ask my co-conspirator. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u168	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorary colleagues, in the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, have considered Bill No. 1210, which proposes a period of disability in connection with an accident at work or a occupational illness to include in the insurance scheme for the appointment of an old-age pension, as well as for the insurance period for working with harmful working conditions that grants the right to a pension on extended terms. First of all, what I would like to mention on behalf of the committee is that the problem really exists. Indeed, it is. But if it was about making changes to the Pension Insurance Act, in which we worked a few years ago, I'm head of the committee, as a deputy, as a person would be the first to raise two hands for this innovation. Today, we are living in the context of the Law on Stately Pension Insurance. There is an insurance principle in which it is virtually impossible to implement this law. Thus, the committee’s decision to recast the bill was based on the fact that it was virtually impossible to implement it in the context of the Act on Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance. That's the first one. The other one. It was based on the fact that the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, expressed its support for this document, as well as the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers does not support it, and, more importantly, the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions does not support this bill. That's why we decided to rework. But speaking of what the problem is, I would like to say that the committee understands that there is a problem, it takes steps to solve it, in particular, on February 26, a round table was held, where we had previously considered the draft law on corporate occupational pension funds, which we are proposing this problem, really, to solve, because there really is a problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u169	Let me finish. Are you done?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u170	The committee decided to return the draft law to the authors for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u171	Thank you, sit down, please. Are they willing to express themselves? So clearly and clearly, the head of the committee made it clear to everyone. Raising my hands means nothing to me. Not like that. Not there, Paul Gnatovich, pushed. I'm voting on a proposal for a profile committee to send a bill to 1210-1 for processing. Please vote. For the drafting of the bill. [[13:55:39]] For 231 Copy that. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration numbers 2571 and 2585, is under consideration. [[on the burial and social protection of members of their families]] According to the first draft, John Alexanderovich Gerasimov reports. Please. Sergei Vasilovich, yours is next, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u172	Gerasimov, the Communist faction. Many letters are addressed to the Council of the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine and to me, as a people's delegate, requesting justice in the memory of the participants in the war against imperialist Japan. It is known that the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War of 1941-1945 provides for the burial of members of hostilities through the State or local budgets. However, participants in hostilities against imperialist Japan are not subject to the law, even though they fought against the same anti-Hitler coalition. There were also many deaths in the war against Japan, many remaining crippled. With a view to eliminating this obvious injustice, therefore, the present law has been passed. I'm asking you to support me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u173	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please. Bill number 2585, Sergey Vasilovich. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u174	Thank you. The Red Cross, the Socialist Party faction, the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan. Honourable National Deputies, the draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the burial of members of the fighting and the social protection of their families, have been developed in connection with the numerous appeals made by members of the fighting that carried out military duties in the territories of other States and their families regarding the need to eliminate violations of the equal rights of war veterans with the same status. First. The current legislation, namely article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, establishes that the costs of burying war veterans are incurred at the expense of the State Budget. But article 14 of the Funerals Act, which has been amended by the Ukrainian Act on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great War of 1941-1945, restricts the distribution of the right to free burial of members of hostilities in the territory of other states. The purpose of the bill is to regulate the right to free burial of persons involved in hostilities in other countries. The other one. Some benefits are granted to participants in the fighting for life under the Ukrainian "On the Status of War Veterans" Act, which is used by members of their families. After his death, however, such a right is lost and poverty comes along with grief in the family. That's why we're proposing, in the implementation of this law, that we have the possibility of burying all the participants at the expense of state and local budgets. The adoption ensures that legal and social protection of members of hostilities is strengthened in the territories of other countries and their families. Please accept the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u175	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Veterans, Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled People, Peter Cibenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you, those of us who may have forgotten a little bit, is that on February 13, we spent February 13 with you in this room. A government day dedicated to the implementation of effective legislation on the social, legal, and moral protection of wartime participants. And the main point that was then sounded in the hall was that we should hurry to repay our eternal debt to those who had won Hitler’s Fascism. These two bills, they are a real step on the way back to this age-old debt. So first of all, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the two drafters of the bill, who have come up with a similar legislative initiative and, I think, they support, they need all the support they can get. The other one. In view of the fact that these two documents, two draft laws are not alternative, but are somewhat complementary, the committee proposes to support both bills in the first reading, in the process of preparing for the second reading, we will unite them and make the only document that will be submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u177	Thank you. What's more, I would ask you, Peter Stepanovich, to pay attention to the proposal that we are really talking about Japan, and the law on the Great Homeland War here also has to respond in some way. Yes, who wants to speak? No, no, I think they want to talk, support this bill. Please, Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u178	A fast, socialist faction. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I just don't know what to discuss here. It's a matter, as they say, noble. We didn't even say much about it in our speeches. So let us simply vote and act in harmony with our conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-20-m0.u179	Those who don't want to uphold this law, don't they? None. So we're done here. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft amendment law, amending the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War for 41-45 years. No, I'm sorry, we have the first law number 2571. Please vote. [[2:02:59]] For 238. Copy that. And draft Act No. 2585 amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the burial of members of the fighting and the social protection of their families. Please vote. [[14:03:32]] 239. Thank you, copy. Dear colleagues, perhaps the absence of our opponents stimulates our work with you to work at a faster pace. And it's only natural, because fewer deputies are involved in the discussion, in the discussion of issues, and it's usually something that speeds up our work. So today you have done all that was planned. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Request to work on committees and factions now, but more on committees, because factions don't write or make laws, and political decisions do. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Good luck.
