ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u1	Good morning, honourable deputies, guests of the Supreme Council! Deputies, please prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:21]] 253 deputies ready to work today, May 17th. The session of Parliament is open in the morning. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, One Alexander Josephovich. Let us greet him, wish him good, health, and success. [[Applause]] He's still young, let luck be with him. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to say that there has been a report that Peter Vasilovich Balabuyev has gone out of his life -- the general air engineer, the hero of the socialist work, the hero of Ukraine, the winner of the National Awards of the Union of the RSR and Ukraine, the doctor of technical sciences, the professor, the well-deserved leader of science and technology of the U.S.R.R., the father of Anteya and other models of airplanes. I would like to honor his memory for a moment of silence. Please sit down. We are scheduled, in line with the decision of the Supreme Council taken nearly two months ago, to take a position on matters of concern to the MPs today. I'm asking the factions to sign up. And in an individual order, anyone who has a wish, please sign in. Okay. From the Communists, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u2	Communist faction, Chairman of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Respected Ukrainian citizens, respected colleagues, a tragic show with the discovery and “prevention” of the assassination of Yushchenko and his field commanders, which the Secretariat of the President and the so-called opposition have distributed, reaffirms the full depth of their political, moral bankruptcy and bankruptcy. [[& Tiles]] In view of the pitiful, humiliating mockery that has become a statement by the Head of the Chief Executive on the activities of the law enforcement agencies of the Helet Secretariat on the 5th channel, and especially in Freedom of Speech, it has become both shameful and painful for the country, for the people who have believed in the power of these orange madmen who are willing to go to all, even to organize bloody provocations, to satisfy their own ambitions. After listening to the president’s official, it was possible to think that when he prepared for his revelations, he was reading detectively. The announced plan of the so-called attempted attempt, which has been collected from garbage cans, crosses, arrows, issues against the names of friends of war and friends of the President, has nothing to do with regret and laughter. All that was missing was the skull and the bones on all those revelations. Ukraine's company states that the allegations of the alleged involvement of members of the National Unity Coalition, the leaders of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in preparing for the assassination of the leaders of the so-called opposition and the leadership of the Presidential Secretariat are a gross political provocation, whose feet are growing from events related to the 2004 memorable dioxin case. Why has it not yet been found that the defendants of this crime have not been identified, despite the numerous statements made by senior officials and Yushchenko himself that the names of the perpetrators are known? It is clear that the writers and clients are all the same high-ranking presidential officials and those in his immediate surroundings. Recent developments strongly confirm that these headless riders are ready for everything to take power in the country, including the organization of attempts on their own well-known associates. With regard to proposals. In order to ensure the rule of law and to prevent provocations that threaten the lives and health of persons, in order to maintain civil calm in the Compartium country, the Attorney-General requests all the heads of the competent authorities to immediately initiate criminal proceedings on the facts and on the basis of the declarations made by the Hellet and to conduct a full investigation. We strongly believe that it is necessary to conduct urgent searches in the offices of the President's Secretariat and to withdraw documents for the preparation of this provocation. Turning to our voters, I would like to recall once again Julius Fuchik’s famous words: “People, be vigilant! ” And the second problem that I wanted to point out to our constituents, our colleagues, is that Cabinet of Ministers Orders No. 684 on increasing pensions primarily for war-torn participants is not only being consistently implemented, it is not only supported by the change in the State budget adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but has in fact been implemented. Today, the absolute majority of the participants in the war have received a May Supplement, a very substantial pension supplement. That is why it is called a matter of responding to the call of its constituents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u3	Thank you. From the “Regions ” Jaduh is speaking instead of Mironka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u4	The honourable presiding, distinguished people of Ukraine, as has traditionally been the case in our country, are the political forces that create problems, and there are the political forces that are forced to solve these problems. The political crisis in Ukraine has to be resolved, it will happen, because otherwise it cannot be, people expect it to be, these expectations they live by. The faction of the Party of Regions believes that from the political crisis, the Ukrainian politician must learn the right lessons and conclusions, which would be the basis for strengthening Ukrainian democracy and implementing constructive national projects that consolidated the nation. In addition, the faction of the Party of the Regions confirms its principle of adjusting to the serious and systematic solution of the political problem node that has long been the cause of the political opposition. Our decisions will be based on state views, concern about the quality of Ukrainian democracy and ensuring the continued development of the Ukrainian economy. It is with these words that we have wanted to address you today, honourable listeners, not only to draw your attention, but also to emphasize that all our thoughts, all our desires, all our activities are set up today for the well-being, for the peace of our citizens. Sadly, though, opposition again forces us to discuss issues that cannot exist alongside morality. And we also have to say that the main role of today's opposition is dirt and slander, primitiveism and children's games, and what's really scary is aggression. So yesterday, the first deputy leader of the Central Electoral Party, "Our Ukraine", Igor Zhdanov, stated that the DTP with the judge of the Kirov District Court, who suspended the President's decrees on the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court, is the result of political technologies that have recently been actively used by political opponents of our Ukraine. At the same time, he noted that the authors of such a scenario tend to be inadvertent polytechnologists who are not responsible for what is happening in Ukraine. In addition, another statement came out yesterday. President Igor Pukshin's deputy head of the Office of the President considered the illegal ruling of the judge of the Kirov District Court of Donetsk John Podolyanchuk to terminate the President's decrees on the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Stanik and of the wheat court. The vice-president of the President's Secretariat stressed that the citizens of the wheat and stanic no longer have a service relationship with the Constitutional Court, they cannot be called judges and they can make any decisions under the authority of the COP. Judges should bear in mind that while continuing to claim to be men in red robes, they succumb to criminal responsibility, Pukshin stressed. Similar statements are a classic example of the rude, primitive and aggressive mood of some of the opposition's members of the President's community. Similar statements should be made in a clear way. But we have to remind these people: none of the members of the Party of the Deputies of the Regions have ever resorted to slander and lies. And that is why we are studying the possibility of addressing the International Court of Strasbourg and challenging the human rights violations that have taken place on the part of the representatives of the President's Secretariat regarding the judges of the Constitutional Court. The final decision will be made soon. And I would like to remind our opponents of the old folk wisdom: “Do not look for anorexia in other people’s eyes, having huge logs in your own.” Not a year has passed since one of the representatives of the political party “Our Ukraine People’s Union” Anton Klimenko set the pan on fire under his car, hoping to carry out a successful attack on personal life. Sadly, though, Mr. Klimenko’s pan was no longer drawn to bullying. Such a sentence was handed down by the prosecutor, Donecka Alexander Almesus. The authors of these statements deliberately mislead people for their beneficial and political interests. It is even worse to realize that some politicians are willing to sell their own chairs to the devil to serve someone. Unfortunately, all the actions and statements that flow from the mouth of the so-called opposition are born and are motivated by the only motive -- the desire to return to the government's offices at any cost and any methods. It must be noted that there was no opposition in Ukraine. And that's a fact of political reality that we're sad to admit today. Dear citizens, we urge you to be pragmatic and sober about politics. Politics is the sphere of rational, pragmatic service for citizens. Politicians are not shamans on the field, they are effective government officials and government managers. Mystics and revolutionary rhetoric are contrasting real things, results, political crackdowns and an ambition parade -- pragmatic and effective ways out of any crisis, revolutionary, adventurous pear projects -- a tiny system of work for the nation, for the political.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u5	Thank you. Uncle Timoshenko, deputy of the Yulia bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u6	Respectable People's Deputies. Yesterday, in a number of speeches, the subject of elections, the topic of false MPs, and so on. Today, I want to develop this subject with a few strokes. On Monday, three days ago, there was, as usual, an extraordinary gathering in the basement at which we received strong criticism. To offer a hand to those who believe that Uncle and Antipov were sold for money, only one trembling hand was raised in the hall. Julia Vladimirovna, do you not feel that you are losing your authority by your actions as a politician, as a public figure, and as a human being? Do you need an election? Who are you going to go to them with? I now turn to the well-respected voters, those who voted for you, do not be mistaken. Julia Vladimirovna, your new team is blocking you from thousands of letters where people are complaining that they didn't get paid to work in the election, even though it's a subject of a separate conversation. Do you think they'll work for you again? I don't think so. The heads of the regional organizations, where are they dragging you? Recall the dozens of former heads, chiefs of staff, who were wiped out after the election. As your leaders say, you're just a biomass that will help them get to the polls. In one of the electoral magazines, you said that you would not be included in the list of fat cats. Looking at your new list, that lie doesn't need comments. I think your personal ambitions have begun to overwhelm the morally acceptable framework that is reflected in your numerous travels, photos in any perspective, swords and without, your symbols on letters, medals, your barrel on coins. Which is worth only one of your speeches. I quote: "After the war, Marshal Zhukov was widely criticized and then history defined his role. So here," the end of the quote. I think it's too much to compare to heroes like that. But unlike you, they fought for peace, and they fought for the Family, and you fight for war, and you trade for your country. You don't know what to do. Dear friends, colleagues from BUT! You didn't realize Timochenko wasn't who she was before, that she had changed. This behavior has led to a crisis in the parties, come to the hall, do you not have a sense of pride and self-esteem not to hide around the corners of the Supreme Council, register with your head high. Is that how you were bent? In one of the speeches at his meeting, Mr. President said, quote: “ 171 People’s Deputies themselves sign an application for withdrawal from the faction and for the appointment of members of the People’s Deputies. “ I’m not going to go any further, it’s your hero. A convincing request to publish this list so that the regular voters know not who to vote for because they have gone to a violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, have refused to vote in favour of wage increases, pensions and other social benefits. What can be expected of such people’s deputies in the future? Dear Mrs. Timoshenko and Kirilenko! Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, we considered your Bill 3339 on Child Care Assistance. Why didn't you come? It's called political speculation. I do not want to talk about those who benefit from this situation in the country today, but according to the classics, “the maid barks and the caravan goes”. I want to contact my colleagues from Our Ukraine, come to the Hall, vote on the Opposition Act, choose from your environment a new leader of the opposition you have a lot of credible, well-deserved people and we will continue to work. I know you're political hostages today, I know you're praying for us to stand, I assure you, we stand. And yet it is not the decision of the Constitutional Court that the opposition will soon come to receive vacations and travels, but that I believe that many of them will come to the hall, that they will have a conscience and a sense of debt to their people. I believe that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u7	Jaroslav Mendus from the Socialists, please, instead of Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u8	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The political crisis that Victor Yushchenko imposed in Ukraine will have to be divisive to him. It is now obvious to every Ukrainian that the attempt to seize power from “Our Ukraine” and “Julia Tymoshenko” on the basis of a gross violation of the law has failed. Password Yushchenka: "Let's break all the laws, but democracy will win the election" – complete absurdity. In a democratic state, the political forces that spit, in fact, into the Constitution cannot defeat. Even in the 2004 elections, the Supreme Court showed this, but that is not what the President’s Secretariat understands. It doesn't matter how many decrees Yushchenko issues, because all the absurdity of this affair has become clear even to the President's immediate surroundings. It is clear that the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, Vitaly Hayduk and his first deputy, Valerius Horoshkovsky, carried out a civil act in protest against the new illegal orders of Yashchenk and new illegal adventures, filed an application for resignation. Going into the midst of a political crisis, of such authoritative people in the business and political world, is essentially a sentence for all the radical projects that are being developed in the President's Secretariat. Now it is obvious that Yushchenko and his spiritual leader, Balog, had no strategy and had no strategy so far. They caused a crisis in the form of a one-way combination, saying, "Let's see the decree, let's figure it out." They set a date for the illegal elections in mid-May, and then by the end of June, they're ready to move them to July. But it will take another month, the second, and Yushchenko will have to agree to all the conditions that the National Unity Coalition puts before it, based on the Constitution and the law. Balogah had enough creativity just to frame a servant of Hellet away from politics. To sound a senseless compromise with the charges of terrorism. The Hellet incident should be a warning to all government officials when they follow the instructions of the political provokers — you lose your career, you lose your name, as happened to Hellet. Special importance in today's political conditions is the holding yesterday of the Parliament of another advisory advisory council on the legislative provision of local self-government and regional development under the Head of the Supreme Council. Some 300 local authorities from all over the country came to Parliament in the face of threats by the President’s Secretariat. The Martyr brothers are still able to threaten, but they are no longer able to respect themselves. There will be a second stage of polytreform. Local self-government to be with the fullest authority, for otherwise talking about European choice, fighting corruption, real contention with the authority of the territorial communities remains a cheap political crash. By continuing to demonstrate a compromise position, the State’s approach to the work of all authorities is gaining greater authority in society. And against this background, crisis organizers look like clowns who have nothing but a pack of illegal unconstitutional decrees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Kuzmenko's word comes from socialists, not from the faction. He'll be followed by Popescu, given the word Netecka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u10	Dear colleagues, distinguished Presidency, voters, citizens of Ukraine! I would like to address you, your fellow voters, first of all, with the following. Now it's already happened in memory of the root cause of which, formally, in any case, the cheese boron is on fire. Sire Bohr, I remind you, was on fire when the leaders of the Yulia Yulia Timoshenko and our Ukraine started accusing the coalition of allegedly rebuking, dragging, diverting deputies from their factions. I would like to recall that, in 2006, during the electoral campaign, neither the leaders of our Ukraine nor the Yulia Timoshenko Block had ever publicly stated that they had been prevented from conducting congresses, that the congresses were under pressure of any kind, bribery or other. That is, they have created their lists in an absolutely calm, democratic environment. I would also like to remind you that Julia Timoshenko was afraid and swore that she was responsible for everyone on her list. Thus, from my point of view, we are now present in an attempt to transfer a headache to a healthy responsibilities, including material ones, for errors in party construction. I would like to recall that even under modest estimates, the cost of the electoral campaign is over 300 million bracelets. I'm not talking about indirect losses for the State when the government is disorganized and everything else. And these 300 million bracelets, in fact, are the price that Ukrainian citizens, the budget of Ukraine, must pay for the fact that Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine today think that they have made a mistake. That's the price of party leaders' mistakes. I believe that it is absolutely unacceptable to translate our mistakes into voters, especially those on the side of voters who voted in favour of other parties in general: the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party. Why should our voters pay for the errors of parties called opposition? I don't understand that. I find this absolutely unacceptable, and I would like our voters to know what these appeals will lead to early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u11	The sand is Ivan Vasilovich, followed by Bogchuk. And instead of who? No, she doesn't. Make it quick.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u12	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. At the request of the faction of the Party of the Regions, I provide information about my participation in the Paris Committee on Equal Opportunities held in Paris. I took part as a representative of the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is a testimony to the recognition by the Council of Europe of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following should be identified among the issues discussed during the meetings. The cornerstone of the debate on the Council of Parliament's campaign against domestic violence against women has been the discussion of concrete actions taken by the authorities of member states at national and local levels, including legislative action, explanatory work, the interaction of all branches of government and the consolidation of various political forces. During the debate, we drew attention to the determination to detect and remove social premeditations of violence. We have noted the effectiveness of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and have identified practical measures that are being taken by the Parliamentary Coalition, the Ombudsman, and the Government of Ukraine in this area, regardless of the political crisis solved by the destructive forces. Increasing the effectiveness of the use of formal approaches to ensure the proper implementation of the resolutions and recommendations of the PARJE were devoted to the debate on the human rights and democracy situation in Europe. During the debates, we highlighted the crucial role of ongoing monitoring of these issues in member countries, mainly by parliaments, by taking note of the example of the President's destructive actions and opposition in Ukraine, that only through close control and expert supervision can it be possible to prevent abuse of power and promote real democracy and the rule of law. The adoption of decisions from a series of questions was postponed due to the absence of reporters at the meeting. At the request of the chairman of the committee instead of Oksana, I was given the word again. In our presentation, we demonstrated the coalition's systematic approach to the implementation of the committee's approvals, particularly with regard to the need for an increase. [[He only gives three minutes.]] The Committee, inter alia, on the need to increase the political activity of women, including at regional level, practical approaches, parliamentary parties and to ensure gender equality in the formation of authorities in Ukraine. At the same time, we have noted with specific examples of ignoring these principles by the President and the opposition forces, who see clearly voluntary approaches. We stressed that in the context of the crisis in Ukraine, one of the effective methods of removing tensions and bringing the situation back into the constitution is criticism from the outside, so we suggested that PARJE carry out more intensive monitoring, the state of implementation of its resolutions, and recommend to all the political forces of Ukraine and openly make relevant criticisms, such as with regard to the implementation of the recommendations of April 17, 2007. During our intermissions and at the end of the meeting, we explained the impact of recent developments on the political situation in Ukraine. And they asked their colleagues to support, at the national parliament level, and in case of a violation of this topic at the meetings of other working bodies of the PARE, a coalition initiative on the return of the crisis to the constitutional field and respect for the rule of law. The offer was accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u13	Ivan Vasilovich, one minute, I'd like your attention. You are currently doing information on the work of our delegation at the Paris meeting, the committee responsible. In accordance with the Rules, choose a time for this, we'll put this question into the order of the day separately, take 10 minutes and tell everything you want to say. Well, let's give it another one and a half minutes. Please. And it would be totally more productive, you just take up other people's time and your time, you're not using it on the subject. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u14	Our positions were accepted by the majority of the committee members and even those members of the committee who had taken this information rather restrained, who had previously supported our opposition's position motivated their position only by the desire not to interfere with Ukraine's internal affairs. And a general conclusion. In Europe, the unconstitutional actions of the President of Ukraine destroy the illusion of his European identity, and his position and adventurous actions of opposition find fewer and fewer supporters. Dear colleagues, there is a principle in Europe that the President of France, Sarkozy, says: “There are no different political camps for a true European leader, but only the good will of those who truly love their country and their people.” Unfortunately, Victor Yushchenk’s actions and actions, especially with regard to the judges of the Constitutional Court and interference with the judicial branch of power, do not conform to these principles. Thus, among the serious European leaders, the myth of human Europeanism gradually wanes, which, thanks to the political situation of 2004 today, is very unprofessional in its efforts to serve as president of Ukraine. History proves that such phenomena are temporary, of course, not for long. European principles provide for other approaches, and Ukraine wants to. And Ukraine, whether it's the President's Administration or not, will be in Europe! And there's a way for political adventurers to go to a political wastebasket. We are confident that this will be the case in European Ukraine. May God help us to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Once again, I recommend that the next time we need information about our delegation's participation in the committee or the entire assembly, then you take the time to do so according to the rules. We include it in the order of the day, and then you're going to tell us without haste what the position is, because it's about standing up for Parliament. Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich, Socialist faction. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u16	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The second month in Ukraine is an undeclared war between truth and injustice, between light and shadow. As a constitutional participant in the Constitutional Court, I was convinced of the harsh white threads that proved to be sewn up by the decrees of the President of Ukraine concerning the early dissolution of the Supreme Council, with which these decrees of the Head of State were carried out with legal negligence. But what surprises me in this situation is that we, those who form the governing coalition, who have taken all the responsibility for the situation on our own before the people of Ukraine, do not know how to bring the matter to a logical conclusion, stop halfway across the world to show how the fundamental law is being trampled on by those who must uphold and guarantee compliance with the Constitution. To prove to everyone in Ukraine, everyone in Ukraine is undergoing a repugnant coup d’état, the ultimate goal of which is to leave the state without a single body, a legislative body. I regret to say that we are more likely to talk about our complete and final victory over legal ignorance. It sinks into sweet talks, unwarranted concessions, the desire to look no worse than Baron Munich himself. I am in favour of leaving the deaf in a social situation and not forgetting what has already been done in the Supreme Council in April and April of this year, namely, if we are to hold early elections, then in the legal field and in accordance with Ukraine's laws, rather than ordering the President. And if elections are to take place in autumn, they must be with the election of the President of Ukraine. The people have a right to appreciate the activities of both the single legislative body and the heads of state, who, in fact, by their illegal outlaw decrees actually pushed the state into chaos, the violent opposition between East and West, between the supporters of various developmental ways. There's no other way out. And it is a pleasure to hear today that the prime minister of England appreciated the conduct of our President, who was to be present today on a visit to England, and canceled the reception of the Ukrainian President. As we go through the European area, we can see above the mounted opposition scene “No Rebellioners”, because today, as rebels in Ukraine, Timoshenko, Lucenko, Kirilenko is speaking, I think this slogan needs to be supported. Not the above-mentioned rebels! The Coalitions and the Supreme Council, yes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we have taken advantage of the time spent on performances. I'd like to pay attention to just one detail. The rostrums often sound sad, and sometimes even harsh, grades regarding so - called oranges. Just as they make the same grades for other colors. Let's not use these epithets too much. Why? I'll explain. I've been to the square many times in 2004, and I want to say that those who are being criticized here today, to the values of the stage, have no bearing on the idea that people were concerned about. As well as the organization of those events. They just got sucked into power now, and they stayed that way. They're not interested in color. So let us make an objective assessment of those actions, the actions of those who today oppose the coalition, against the Constitution. Because it has happened that today the political struggle has turned from one side into a struggle against the Constitution. This is unacceptable to the democratic state. So I'd like us to focus on this when we're evaluating some of the actions, events, phenomena, positions of political power and so on. We're still looking at the question yesterday for inclusion in the order of the day about the information of the representatives of the force structures regarding the statement by one of the officials of the President's secretariat about what he found in the secretariat, I understand, I've discovered the terrible things that indicate the organization of the attacks on, I don't know who, but here's the thing that only law enforcement authorities can figure out. We've asked the Attorney General's representative to make a statement on this matter. The first Deputy Attorney General, Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko, is present. I give him my word. Please make a statement on the rostrum. By regular procedure of up to 10 minutes, it can be expressed and minutes of 5 can be given time to answer questions that will be asked by the deputies. Please, Alexander Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! As is known, the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to hear the information of the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the acting head of the Security Service have been made on May 11, this year by the head of the General Service for the activities of the law enforcement agencies of President Valerius Hellet of Ukraine regarding the possibility of an attack on the lives of individual officials and political leaders. Of course, such statements could not help but cause a violent reaction in society. During May 14-15, the Office of the Attorney-General came from this point of view to the National Deputies of Ukraine, Vladimir Sovkovic, Peter Simonenko, Yuri Miroshnickenka, Elbrus Tedeyev, Vitaly Hmotinnik, and Minister of Interior of Ukraine Vasil Tsushka. These references address the issue of a thorough examination of the validity of the applications and the appropriate legal evaluation. To this end, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Mr. Svetoslav Piscoon, held a meeting on 14 May this year with the heads of law enforcement agencies, at which it was agreed that, according to the competence and subordination of the crime provided for in article 112 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, a violation of the life of a national or public official, the Heleta statement should be examined by the Ukrainian Security Service. Such a test has been started today. And a temporary request from the head of the Security Service of the Ukraine of the Territory, registered at the U.S. President’s Office on May 12, the head of the Heletei Service of the United States of America sent information to the Security Service on the preparation of the assassination efforts on May 14. In accordance with the requirements of article 97 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, their review may take no more than 10 days. As a result of this inspection, the Security Service must decide whether to commit a criminal offence or not to refuse to do so. The legality of the decision will be immediately checked by the Attorney General's Office and the results are informed by the Supreme Council and the public. In addition, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine cannot draw any conclusions or statements on the validity or groundlessness of Helette's claims and give them a legal assessment. In view of what has been said, I ask the honourable members of the people to wait for the deadline and the completion of the check. At the moment, I can only assure you that the decision taken by the Attorney General will be based solely on the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u19	Now you're going to sign up for the question, and I think it's been bothering me all along, so I'm going to ask it earlier, Alexander Ivanovich. Now, there are two sides to the matter: imagine what was said by the official in question -- true, then, clearly, the Security Service will take all appropriate measures to ensure that the disaster does not occur, and those involved in such a crime or in the preparation of it will be punished accordingly. That's one thing, that's how it works. On the other hand, if it's all a lie, if it's all a provocation, how is it that the D.A., or the Security Service should act according to our legislation? Please make a statement on this subject, and the deputies will be registered for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u20	Thank you, Your Honor, Alexander Alexandrovich. The review is entrusted to the Security Service, since the Criminal Procedure Code provides for the criminal offence under article 112 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, it refers to the jurisdiction of the Ukrainian Security Service, which is why it is entrusted with the investigation and after the examination of the Attorney General's Office is completed. will check these materials and make the appropriate decision after this check has been completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u21	All right. Please, Suhi Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u22	May I have the floor to the deputy of Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u23	Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u24	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, you know, what Helletius did is similar to the Stalinic repression of the 1930s, when Stalin was giving orders to Barry, they were manufacturing things, and then they were suffering politicians accordingly. I think it's clean water to falsify, and I need to give a certain assessment to the Helette, and then I need to check it out in the doctor's office. Something very painful he spoke on the canals. But I have another question for you. Well, the first question is what Alexander Alexander said. Is he going to be responsible because it's a provocation that could stand in the lives of many politicians? And the second. And as you look at the diversion that was. Is it a diversion, or was it a negligence with a train train? Who is really responsible for this because it is again asked to tie up with certain political forces, our colleague who works in Mintrans and so forth? Can you clarify something about that? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u25	Well, I can tell you in this case, which happened on the railroad, which is a criminal case, it's being investigated, and only after the trial is completed will the right decision be made. The fact that this situation has already been commented on by Svetoslav Piscoon, which is why I have nothing new to add here. Only after the completion of the trial will we make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u26	Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u27	Please hand over Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u28	Please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u29	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Ivanovich, it is clear to all that there are procedural rules. And today, I see you're in a mood to talk about all the specifics about what's going on. And we, MPs, are not going to break it either. But then I will return to other developments that have already passed all procedural deadlines and the questions remain. The so-called “dioxin story”, the so-called attempt during the elections again on the same person, that a car with explosives was allegedly found there, some foreign nationals and so on. It's been a long time. You can now, so to speak, not to mention that this time frame, pre-trial investigation, has been transferred to court and so on. Please inform the Office of the Attorney-General on these matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u30	Well, I don't know what you mean by an explosive car. That was really the case. And the people on this criminal case are condemned. As for the criminal case of poisoning the President, it is in the stage of pretrial investigation. The decision is not made because there are no individuals involved in the poisoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u31	Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u32	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Well, the character of the Hellet is as scandalous as it is probably unprofessional. I was just a witness when he and Moskal "Alpha" were looking for the former Acting Pecher Court. When the hare was caught, he could not justify what he was doing there. It's the same thing. And the second. How can you estimate his performance on the Fifth Channel when he was chatting, that's to say. that the agreement should have been with Timoshenko, that she was simulating and attempting to kill her, then that she would have found the perpetrators. And here's what you're going to appreciate as a professional, as a lawyer: either it's bullshit, or it's really high-fat provocation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u33	I thank you for asking. But I have to repeat that the Ukrainian Security Service is being tested, once it is completed, then we will give an assessment and his statement, and in general, a decision will be taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u34	I'm asking Babourin, please, you asked, no, and you got the answer to the question. Whether it's nonsense or provocation, he doesn't know yet, the Attorney General doesn't know yet. So please don't make him talk. Please, Bogchuk gives the Mendus a word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u35	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, from Mr. Hellet's grotesque speech on the national news channel, we have learned that before he came to the air, he was communicating with the head of the President's secretariat, Mr. Balogo. But he confirmed that, at the time of the speech, both on the “5 channel” and on the “ISTV”, he did not address either the Prosecutor's Office or the Ukrainian Security Service or the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Please tell me, how can such actions be qualified if we're talking about a civil servant and not just a civil servant, but the one who works in the President's Office first? And how should any law-abiding citizen act in such actions, except that he is also a civil servant? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u36	Well, I don't want to judge Hellet as a person. And after this situation that came up with his statements, I say again. That I can't answer that question right now, because it's still going on, and there's a test that's being started by the Security Service. And only after it's over, and after we've checked the legality of the decision taken, then we, then I'll have the right to inform the honourable national MPs of this situation, which has been the case with his statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u37	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. I understand that you can say what you can say. And you can't say what you can't say, but you can't talk anymore than you can, I can see it from your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u38	Because the test is going on as I'm going to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u39	Right. I'd like that. Now, the MPs came up before the meeting and said, you ask the Attorney General how there might be such a situation in the state: there's a suspicion of terrorist acts -- neither in the U.S.A. do they know anything about it, either in the police or in the prosecutor's office, in other services do they know, only in the President's Secretariat do they know? Well, this is a very interesting situation, you know? [[Applause]] Thank you, sit down, please. We've got it. I'm asking for your attention. We have information from the Security Service that's about the meaning that we've taken to investigate this issue and we'll give a message after we've investigated it. [[Letter]] We know it's a ten-day term. We will return to this issue with the Security Service, she. He's going to be the manager here, on the rostrum, and he's going to report on what they finally discovered. The deputies were asked to make a statement on this point because yesterday the Committee on Safety and Security was considering the matter, and the word here is given to Yuri Pavlovich Samuelenko, the first deputy head of the committee, by the way, and a specialist in the relevant profile for the previous job.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! Yesterday, a regular meeting of the Committee on National Security and Defence was held, and one of the issues, of course, was the consideration of the situation in society following the sensational statement by the responsible officer of the Secretariat of Mr. Helet on the preparation of terrorist acts against eminent, political and public figures. It can be said that we have considered this issue from two perspectives. First, it is that Mr. Helletaj indeed had reliable, as he stated, data and obtained legally and wanted to prevent a crime that was actually coming. And the second version was that it was a pyrotechnic move that pursued certain political goals. The first version, as if, at all wishes, with the unanimous decision of the members of the Committee, it had very little right to life. The argument is that it is not clear, as a responsible Secretariat staff member, that a more recent law enforcement officer who knows all the legislation, including the Code of Criminal Procedure, has the material and even the names of individuals and killers who have reportedly arrived in Ukraine, to spray this information with the Security Service, that is, the media, instead of at least the same Ukrainian Security Service, where a special anti-terrorist centre has been established. And he was well aware that any investigation into a particularly dangerous crime, especially as a terrorist act, required secrecy, confidentiality and speed of action. It is clear that as a result of what has been published in the newspaper Ukraine Youth, it has already been known that four of these killers have already left not only the city of Kiev but also the territory of Ukraine. Thus, Mr. Helletaj is, let us say, an accomplice to the crime, and he has done his utmost not only to prevent, but also to avoid the punishment of those persons. A more realistic version is, of course, the version that this is a pyrotechnic move, pursuing certain political goals. There is much to be said for this aspect of the data. We know very well how certain political forces, losing their ratings, are trying to stimulate public consciousness with harsh and provocative statements that have nothing to do with reality. You don't have to go too far. We will recall at least the events of the fall and winter of 2004, when society was filled with rumours of the alleged presence in Kiev of Russian Special Forces, the preparation of terrorist attacks and the arrests of opposition leaders. We also remember well who spread these rumors and why it was done. The practice of such methods of lifting the rating flourished during the period of the Prime Minister of Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. Zinchenko, Turkinova, Yulia Vladimirovna herself, has repeatedly shocked citizens, for the corruption and betrayal of the interests of the Family have been blamed not only by political opponents but also by yesterday's orange camp partners. Today, by the way, they have once again become a united opposition, which once again underscores the cynicalness of a number of politicians not only with regard to their own people but also with their own words. Regrettably, the pursuit of political dividends is not always harmless, especially in the part where it directly affects the national security of Ukraine. Let us imagine the reaction of Ukrainian society to Mr. Hellet's statement. Of course. Most of our citizens have treated them with irony or irritation, for people have long learned to distinguish truth from imaginary innuendo. At the same time, for some parts of society, such statements about the threat to the lives of their political masters may be an appeal for immediate action, for acts of rigour, for radical action, not always legal. In doing so, deceived people can be fully convinced of their right, confident that they are protecting their leaders from a real threat. That is how civil strife began all the time, ultimately leading to strong means of resolving the conflict. Are these not the objectives of Mr. Hellet's archduke masters, but are his sensational statements based on a cold, sober calculation of the country's involvement in the bloodbath? As a way out of a possible conflict, we will be offered a state of emergency and direct presidential rule. In the light of recent events, do you not find such an option too likely? Fortunately, healthy politicians have the opportunity to prevent such schemes and it consists in informing the public about them, including through the media. Our committee has identified a number of institutional and practical measures for the implementation of parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u41	Let me finish the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u42	Our committee will do its utmost in the framework of parliamentary monitoring of the conduct of its investigations into its objectivity, the materials which the Office of the Attorney-General has subsequently transmitted to the Ukrainian Security Service. We have already sent requests to the Security Service, planned and sent an invitation to the duty-bearing Mr. Nadjajchenko to attend another meeting of our Committee. Regrettably, respected colleagues can report that constructive cooperation by the security service, which is now becoming an instrument as in the past when the KGB was a political weapon of the party, and today the Security Service is trying to turn into political weapons the Secretariat of the President and certain political forces. Unfortunately, we do not yet have a positive response to such constructive cooperation on the part of Mr. Devwaychenka, because he gave us a written response, which says that given that the Supreme Council is dissolved by the President's decree and is not legitimate, he believes that neither is the Committee on National Security and Defence and is not going to visit us and these meetings. That is why we will find opportunities to exercise parliamentary control and on which I will report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u43	Thank you. I think this information will be useful, you leave control behind the committee, you'll still be informing after this whole, I almost said, affair, so to speak, an affair, although everyone knows it's an affair. It will be delivered to clean water and then we will speak a little differently on this subject, including with regard to service leaders who have a specific view on this issue, which has no bearing on the Constitution or on the law. This should be borne in mind, necessarily. Replica, you who have offended, Alexandrovska, please give your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u44	Alexandrovsky, Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Alexandrovich, I was really insulted as a national MP, and I think as well as everyone here. Just now, this is the second one today, for the first time, we have not responded that Mr. Ltavajchenko believes that the Supreme Council is not legitimate and therefore he considers it necessary to carry out his duties by coming to the Supreme Council and informing us of the issues that we are asking. I would like to take advantage of the presence in this Chamber of the Deputy Attorney-General, who has certain functions and powers, and should call upon the official to carry out his duties in accordance with the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. That is why I would like the Supreme Council to express its mandate to the Office of the Prosecutor-General, to provide clarifications on how it should carry out its duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u45	I think Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski is backing you up, and he raised his hand to say that he did. He won't speak now, because it's not a topic for discussion. It seemed to me that the head of the service, who was in charge of the service, was aware that the Constitution should not be violated. He writes, for example, information to the Chief of the Supreme Council and writes about everything that has been discussed here. But on the other hand, such a disgrace that the head of the service is afraid of officials from the President’s Secretariat is not yet in Ukraine. He's just afraid to come here because they won't let him in, that's all. So, I think we're going to make a proper assessment on this point, as well as on compliance with the State Service Act, on other legislation that provides for how much a person can do to perform his duties, and so on. It's just a crazy situation. Here yesterday at the Coordination Council on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, one of the heads of the District Councils, speaking, said: “Dear Members, twice dissolved and three times legitimate Parliament.” I want to say that political reform must continue because there will be no order in the state until we transfer the authority to the places until the official of the administration tells who to go to the meeting, who not to go, who to go to, who to go to report to the higher legislature, the only legislative body of the state, and so on. There will be order in the state, no one will be happy with the idea that he will do both justice and the right to create and exercise authority, and so on. The distribution of power is just saying that balance should and cannot be concentrated in one hand, because it's called monarchy. Stephen Cloud used to say here: An infertile monarchy. And there must be a republic, a democracy, a people's right and it must be realized in appropriate forms. We will make sure of that. Honourable MPs, authors, faction leaders propose to consider the Draft Decision on the manner in which the Cave District Court of Kiev manipulates the activities of the Central Electoral Commission. It's about trying. I'm not saying "powers," I'm saying "tests" of manipulation. You have this document on your hands and registration number 3598, and I ask that you include it in the order of the day and vote according to the content. Please, I'm putting to the vote the question of his inclusion in the order of the day. [[11:05:02]] For 249 249 deputies support this proposal, and the question is included in the agenda. Since reporters or authors are subjects of the legislative initiative from the place, it is obviously harder to use the microphone, and this is obviously interesting for those who listen to our broadcast, I will just read this document. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On Attempts to manipulate the Pecher District Court of Kiev in influencing the activities of the Central Electoral Commission. “The Order of the Pecher District Court of Kiev of 11 May 2007 granted the application of the electoral bloc of the political parties "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko" to the Central Electoral Commission. The stated ruling, adopted by a panel of courts composed of: Melnika, Volkova, Zokol, is acknowledged to quote: “The opposing inaction of the Central Electoral Commission on non-creating in the legislative framework for the election of district election committees for the preparation and holding of consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which were appointed on 24 June 2007 and are required by the Central Election Commission on a three-day basis from the date when the decision was given validity in this case, will create district election committees to prepare and conduct the pre-election elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies, which will be held on 24 June 2007.” In view of the fact that both Presidential decrees of April 2 and April 26, 2007 on the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's powers are pending before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The local court should stop the introduction of the decision before the Constitutional Court of Ukraine on the constitutionality of these decrees. In view of the above, and taking into account the decisions of the Professional Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the failure of judges of the Pecher District Court of Kiev to take account of the relevant provisions of the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine entitled “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” and “On the Central Electoral Commission”, and the individual approval of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine since 23 April 2007, the Supreme Council ruled: First. To invite the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice to carry out an examination of the actual circumstances of the admission by the judges of the Pecher District Court of Kiev of the Order of 11 May 2007 in the case of the so-called election bloc of political parties, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, the Central Election Commission and on the grounds that appropriate action is available. The other one. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice, when documents from the Supreme Council of Justice have been received following a review carried out in accordance with paragraph 1 of this decision, to prepare, immediately and in due course, for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, draft relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Third. To draw the attention of the members of the Central Electoral Commission to the need for unfailing compliance with part one of article 19, article 60, with other requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, with the laws of Ukraine. Four. The Central Election Commission, in its work on the organization and conduct of the elections of the President of Ukraine and the National Deputies of Ukraine, continues to be guided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 2 April 2007 on the prevention of acts threatening the constitutional order, public order and stability in Ukraine by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 30 April 2007 on the elections of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies. Fifth. This decision takes effect from the day of adoption. “ I don’t know Here's a document. I think it's perfectly logical and legal. If you don't mind, are you willing to discuss it? None. So I bet you can put it to a vote in general? Is there no objection? That's why I'm putting this document 3538, its registration number, to a vote. Please. In general. There's a vote coming. [[11:09:12]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. Under the second reading procedure, you are invited to consider the draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes, registration number 2569. Reported the deputy head of the Committee on State Building and Regional Policy and Local Self - Rule, Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u46	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished citizens of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, national MPs! In accordance with the Ukrainian Supreme Council Decision of 3 April 2007, No. 860-5 on the adoption of draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes by the establishment of honorary titles “Deserved flyer of Ukraine”, “Deserved pilot tester of Ukraine”, “Deserved employee of Ukraine’s resorts”, “Deserved geologist of Ukraine”, “Deserved employee of Ukraine’s local self-government”, registration numbers 2569, 2831, 3385, 3385, 3385-1. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government worked on these draft laws, bringing them together in a single bill, and on April 20, at its meeting, considered the proposed draft law, taking into account the comments and proposals made by the legislators. In its consideration of the bill, the committee took into account the proposal by national deputy Yuri Kichato to delete paragraph “Deserved employees of Ukrainian resorts” because the committee had taken such a decision before the first reading of the relevant bill with registration number 2831. Please support the bill proposed by the committee to amend article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Ukrainian State Prizes and adopt it on second reading and in general. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u47	By the procedure of the second reading. I would like to take into account the fact that, in fact, we have in our left hand list all the titles and "Deserved Teacher", the artist, the architect and so on, and only the "Deserved Geologist", the pilot, the "Flyer Tester of Ukraine" and the "Deserved Officer of Local Self-Government" are added, and the "Deserved Employees of Resorts" are added, because it is clearly covered by categories other than specialities, it may be a medical worker, it may be social services, etc., and Deputy Kichathi has not offered to include it and this committee has counted it. But if there are other considerations on this point, please ask Leonid Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u48	Alexander Alexandrovich and distinguished members of the people! When you made a decision on several drafts last time to merge, there, as I recall, including the motivation of Alexander Alexandrovich to include all three bills in one bill. In this case. I repeat, 200,000 people are working at Ukrainian resorts today. I can't understand why this industry, which, in fact, today must be one of the leaders, the breadwinners, is demeaning. Therefore, on behalf of the faction, if not introduced now, before the vote of the title “Deserved employee of Ukrainian resorts”, we will simply not vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u49	Was that a question?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u50	What was the position of the committee in this regard? In view of the fact that there is a well - deserved cultural worker, both a doctor and a health worker. This is a health resort, I understand. Oh, no? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u51	Well, what I'm saying is that this question was looked at on the committee, looked at Yuri Kichito's proposal, looked at the previous decisions of the committees that rejected the standard. I'll say there were no such, well, harsh objections to the issue. And if Kichitay withdraws his offer, I think you can either go back to that question later, or make a decision now, and then come back to that question later, considering the faction's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u52	Let's do this one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u53	I don’t know how the rules allow this to happen right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u54	Yes, the regulation allows for a separate proposal to vote, each amendment, every word even, every sentence and so on. Because the discussion was about whether or not to include the title “Deserved employee of Ukrainian resorts”, please repeat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u55	There is then a proposal to accept as a basis and vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u56	No, no, no. I'm asking you, there's a second reading procedure, it's gonna be okay. Paul Gnatovich, explain to people how we should act here. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u57	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. You know, Alexander Alexandrovich, we have a lot of rewards, honors. Not even that much, I would say, important things that reflect such serious things in the construction of our state. Well, I think if there's a question today that we should recognize an honorable title in the aviation sector that is strategically essential for Ukraine, I don't think there should be any questions. So I encourage him to accept it in the first reading, and all of these questions that will arise, they will be processed in the second reading, and then a full bill will be adopted, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u58	Thank you, Paul Ignatovich. You, as always wise counsel, are not the first to read, but the second to read, and you need to make a decision. Thus, according to the Rules, separate clarifications according to the insistence of Leonid Ivanovich Grač are put to the vote. I mean, he's proposing to leave the title "deserved employee of the resorts of Ukraine" to the vote. [[11:16:54]] For 234 Thank you. Now, if there are no more objections, I generally put to the vote the law in the second reading with additions that were made to geologists and pilots. [[11:17:24]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian Peoples' Deputies is under consideration. [[on the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the work of the Temporary Commissions]] This second reading proposes a document. Mankovsky Grigory Volodymyrovich will report to him, a member of the Committee on the Rules of Deputy Ethics and the Security of the Supreme Council. Registration number 3028. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u59	Honourable Chairman, Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine. To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 14 March 2007, number 739 of the Committee was finalized and prepared for second reading in accordance with the requirements of article 111 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian People's Deputies. [[on the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the work of the Temporary Commissions]] In preparation for the second reading, proposals were received from Ukrainian national deputies Krutz, Kozuba, Pisarenko. In the second reading, 8 suggestions were made to the comparative table, of which 6, 2 were rejected. Rejected by the proposals of the Ukrainian national deputy Pisarenko in view of not taking into account the change to the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not provide for the establishment of parliamentary groups, but only parliamentary factions. In addition, the removal of restrictions on the admission of temporary commissions is unnecessary and may lead to the termination of such commissions, since the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules are applied to their work at almost the same time. The draft law worked with the Chief Legal Authority and the Editorial Department of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee proposes to consider and accept the second reading of the prescribed draft law of Ukraine and to adopt it as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, there are 8 comments, one of which is rejected by the Pisarenko MP. I don't see him insisting on this amendment. Others. Someone wants to insist, don't they? Then, taking into account the committee’s suggestions and the rejection of Pisarenko’s amendment, I put this law to the vote as a whole. [[fifth amendment]] Please. [[11:20:36]] For 248 Decision taken. Thank you. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine is being considered in the second reading. [[on the prohibition of mass treatment sessions using hypnosis]] Registration number 1295. Reported to the Head of the Committee on Health Care of the Bahtejev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Aunt Dmitry's bachelor. Girls, you're studying the agenda so carefully on the next question that you're missing the deadline for your report. Aunt Dmitrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u61	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Today, you have before you the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation, prepared by the Committee of Health for second reading, with a view to improving the use of methods of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation of folk medicine, that is, healing. The amendments proposed by the Committee to Ukrainian legislation are aimed at uncontrolled use and promotion of methods and means using psychological and psychotherapy effects, including those that do not have the permission of the Ministry of Health to apply them and are carried out by persons without medical education. In preparing the bill, the proposals of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, as well as the legislation of other countries in the field of health and public medicine, including the recommendations of the World Health Organization on folk medicine and healing, were taken into account. The Committee took into account the 12 proposals of the Ukrainian people's deputies for a bill of 13 proposed. One proposal of the Bespalogo People's Deputy was not taken into account and only because it concerned amendments to the Television and Broadcasting Act, which does not exist to date. I would like to stress, however, that in preparing the bill, the Committee was primarily in the interests of the patients. I will briefly focus on the main provisions of the bill. Thus, according to the amendments proposed by the Committee, the use of methods of psychological and psychotherapy — hypnosis, innuendo — for the purpose of recovery and treatment is only permitted in places established by the Ministry of Health of Ukraine, only persons with special authorizations issued by the Ministry of Health and the corresponding qualifications can take part. In addition, there is a ban on targeting the mass audience, including through the use of the media. The Committee is also invited to amend article 21 of the Advertising Act in order to prohibit the advertising of targetedness on mass audiences, advertising of healers, psychics, others, their services, subject to the special permission of the Ministry of Health to carry out activities in the field of folk medicine. The bill also proposes that administrative responsibility be established for the illegal use of folk medicine. To this end, the Code on Administrative Violations is proposed to supplement the new article 46-2, which establishes illegal occupation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u62	Please enable the report to be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Administrative liability in the form of a fine of between 50 and 150 unpaid minimum income for citizens. Articles 255, 221 and 294 of the Code have also been amended with a view to granting officials of health authorities and internal affairs the right to draw up protocols on administrative offences under article 46-2. I would like to point out that the bill is made available by the General Legal Office without any comment. The Committee believes that the adoption of the bill as a law will improve the quality of medical care and will, above all, contribute to the adoption of the principle of the rule of law in the field of health. I request that the bill, prepared by the Committee, be adopted on second reading and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u64	The authors of the amendments to this project have some comments, right? I'd like us to take advantage of that kind of reasoning here. Some of the real talents of such, national nuggets may think that there are restrictions on their activities. No, it's not. The point is that there will be no fraud here, so that those who do not have any bearing on the healing of people have no bearing on the matter. Today, however, there are many such lovers who are playing in an appropriate way in today’s situation and who are resorting to things that are harmful to people. Yes, these are to be fenced. And I think that the draft law in this respect is absolutely correct and meets that need. Paul Gnatovich, do you have an amendment? Give the Sulkov word. If there is no correction, you will not speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u65	Alexandre Alexandrovich, thank you. I'm not so much a fixer, I'd like to note and thank Aunt Dmitry's bachelor who really led the Medical Committee, and we've really noticed, not just us as national deputies, but in the regions, thanks to this committee, it's much better to work on medical problems in Ukraine. And that's why I'm making a proposal to support the proposal committee and Tetjana Dmitrovna and to vote on this project in the second and the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u66	Right. That's what we thought. This rule does not specify this position or your desire. So let's support the proposal of the committee and deputy Sulkovsky. Please put to the vote a draft amendment bill that is considered by the committee. I called the registration number. Please. [[11:27:56]] For 244 Roger that. The draft Law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices is being considered in a second reading. Also reported the head of the Committee on Health Care, Baytechev Tetjana Dmitrovna, registration number 2638.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u67	Dear Alexander Alexandrović, distinguished people's deputies, the Health Committee has prepared for consideration by the Supreme Council, on second reading, a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 14 of the Drug Act. The bill proposes to distinguish between the posts of Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine and the Chief State Inspector of Ukraine to monitor the quality of medicines. As well as improving the appointment and release of the Ukrainian Chief State Inspector for Drug Quality Control. In preparing the bill, the Committee took into account all proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies, as well as the conclusion of the main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, according to the final draft of the bill proposed by the working group of the Committee, the Chief State Inspector for Drug Quality Control of Ukraine will be appointed and released from office by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on behalf of the Minister of Health of Ukraine. We propose a draft law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Drug Act, prepared by the working group, which is provided by the chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine without comment, which can be adopted on second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the amendments are all taken into account, no one denies that they are both editorial. Then I am voting on adoption as a whole as a law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. Registration number 2638. Please vote. [[11:30:26]] For 246 The law is passed. Thank you, Aunt Dmitrovna, for vindicated Sulkovsky's trust. Yeah, let's move on to the question. The judges are still meeting because you know we're always looking at this issue at 12 o'clock. The question of the appointment of individual village heads is being considered. Please be prepared. Registration number 3535, on the appointment of the successive elections of the Vizier village head, Ohtyr district of Sumsk district. Please vote. [[11:31:28]] For 242 Copy that. 3535-1 is the appointment of the successive elections of the Buddhist village head, Kodim district, Odessa district. Please vote. [[11:31:53]] For the 250. Copy that. Order 3535-2, on the appointment of consecutive elections of the superior village head, Borovsky district, Kharkishte. Vote. [[11:32:21]] For 247 Copy that. Bill 3535-3, in addition to the election of the island head, Terebovlánsk district, Ternopilsk district. Please vote. [[11:32:47]] For 249 Copy that. 3535-4, in addition to the election of the Antsian village head, Chargorod district, Winnitsk district. Please vote. [[11:33:12]] For 253 Copy that. Bill number 3535-5 on the appointment of the successive elections of the village head, the Krasnolyman region of the Donetsk Region. All the elections on July 29th. Please vote. [[11:33:40]] For 251 Copy that. Bill number 3535-6. In turn the election of the village head, Tomaspil district of Winnitsk. Please vote. [[11:34:08]] For 251 Copy that. Bill 3535-7. In turn, the elections of the Montenegrin village head, the Kakhov district of the Hersonian region. Vote. [[11:34:33]] For 253 Copy that. Bill 3535-8. Assignment of the next election of the Kuzmin village head, Hmělnick district. Vote. [[11:34:59]] For 252 Copy that. Bill number 3535-9. The next round of the election of the elpibotic village head, Demidivsky district, Plainshina Please vote. Sulkowski, vote. [[11:35:26]] For 253 That's right. That's right. Registration number 3535-10. Assignment of out of turn elections to the old Krajina village head, Chernobai district, Cherkas region Vote. [[11:35:54]] For 252 Copy that. Registration number 3535-11, in addition to the election of the New Astrakhan Rural Head, the Crimean Region, the Lugansk Region. Vote. [[11:36:20]] For 252 Copy that. Order number 3535-12, consecutive election of the Topolovian village head, the Triotic district, the Lugansk district. Please vote. [[11:36:46]] For 252 A decision has been made. Bill 3535-13, consecutive election of the Raków village head, Tomaspil district, Vinnitsk district. Please vote. [[11:37:12]] For 252 Copy that. 3535-14, in addition to the election of the Tolmati village head, Spolyan district, Cherkaščina. Please vote. [[11:37:37]] For 248 Copy that. Registration number 3535-15, consecutive elections of Prosian Village Head, Pochrovsky district of Dnipropetrovsk district. Please vote. [[11:38:04]] For 253 Copy that. Order 3535-16, in addition to the election of the apple tree head, the Putil district of Cherniewec. Please vote. [[11:38:30.]] For 252 Decision taken. Bill number 3535-17 on the appointment of out-of-court elections of remote rural head, Ovidiopolsky district, Odessa region. Please vote. [[11:38:57]] For 247 Copy that. And bill number 3541 on the amendment to paragraph 1 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Ordinance on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Loškarov Rural Head, the Nnipropetrovsky District. Assigning the election on July 29th, please vote. [[11:39:33]] For 251 Copy that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u69	Deputies! I'm such a trailer, I'm drawing your attention to the decisions of the Supreme Council regarding the early elections and the suspension of the powers and the extracurricular elections of the country's heads. Note how the document is formulated, as part of article 14 of the second and sixth parts of article 15, articles 82, 83 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads, the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules as a result of the suspension of the powers of such a rural head, and according to paragraph 30 of the first part of article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, part three of article 14 of article 14 of part two and six of article 15, articles 82, 83 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Village Heads. First of all, it's based on whether the application was personal, whether the referendum was held locally, or whether it was the result of a court decision or not. The law provided for arguments, the grounds, were examined by the Supreme Council’s Personal Committee and carried out by the village council. The proposal then goes to the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Constitution, the laws, the Supreme Council, after considering the matter on the committee, makes a proposal for a session. In doing so, what number do we have today, you remember, May 17th of July, taking into account the need to prepare for the elections and also in accordance with the law. This is just a reminder of how such documents are prepared for those who listen to us and are interested in the procedure. A draft Decision on the assignment of the name - village of Acropolis to the newly created settlement of the Simferopol district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is under consideration. Reported the deputy head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u70	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear fellow national MPs! The Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the basis of the appeal of residents of the newly created settlement of the Labour Village and the Simferopol District Council, violated the problem of assigning the newly established settlement of the Simferopol district to the village of Acropolis. The village of Acropolis is located on the territory of the Labour Village Council, 5 km from the center of the village council. Acropolis’s populace was formed on lands that were set aside for planting on the territory of the former Soviet Union of Dubka. Today, 262 people live in the village of Acropolis and 93 residential buildings of the garden type have been completed. The question of assigning the newly established Simferopol area of appointment to the village of Acropolis was approved by the general assembly of the inhabitants of the settlement. Considered and supported by the Labour Village, the Simferopol District Council, and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government reviewed these concerns and proposed to support the draft decree on the assignment of the newly established settlement in the Simferopol area of the name of the village of Acropolis. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u71	Any comments, any reflection, should be discussed? The name is so sound and historical, I think we should consider when making that decision. So I have to put all of you on a motion for a vote to assign the name of the village of Acropolis to a newly created settlement. Registration number 3463. I'll put it to the vote. [[11:44:14]] For 247 Decision taken. We welcome the inhabitants of this village because they lived just before in the village, and now they live in the village of Acropolis, so that they know where they are and will now live. We have a list of issues that are scheduled to be dealt with by a reduced procedure, if that's your agreement, that's registration number 2726 and 1240. I'd like your approval to support this proposal, procedure. I'll bet you a vote. Now, then. [[11:45:02]] For 245 Decision taken. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies on Pre-Election Agitation and Publicization of Media is under consideration, compromising information. Registration No. 2726, reports Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović, deputy head of the State Building Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u72	Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, a respected citizen of Ukraine, a respected colleague of national MPs. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Local Self-Government and Regional Policy considered, at its meeting on 20 April 2007, at the direction of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksandrovitch, a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies on Pre-Election Agitation and Publication of the Media of Compromising Information. Registration No. 2726 of 13.12.2006, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Trelyakiv. The bill proposes to define the procedure for the publication of compromising information by media outlets on candidates in the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Party and the Blocks, the establishment of the deadlines for the publication of such information, the definition of the right to reply, the definition of the responsibility of the media to publish such information. The determination of the terms of the court decisions, the suspension of the licence and the temporary ban on the release of the printed edition. The Committee on Legal Policy has testified that the provisions of the bill do not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. At the same time, the Committee on Budgetary Questions adopted a decision that the adoption of the bill as proposed would have an impact on the budget expenditure. The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government concluded by recommending to the Supreme Council a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” in the first reading to be rejected. I'd like the Supreme Council to decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who would like to speak for or against this project for two minutes, please sign in. Cibenka, please. He will “proceed ” to speak. And Sulkowski is "against".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u74	Thank you. The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I really want to divide my speech and my view of the bill into two parts. First of all, I would like to say that we really need to make the necessary changes in the legislation on the election of Ukrainian national deputies to deal with the complex of issues related to the publication of compromising materials. Indeed, that is the need. And just so that we don't have to go to the courts once and for all, so that journalists don't act, let's say, looking at how a publication can be judged, we really need to fix this. But in the second part of my speech, I would like to say that in the way that this project is presented, in the way that these standards are written, I absolutely share the concern of the profile committee that this document cannot be accepted in that form. Because it's not only going to solve the problem, it's going to create additional problems in this way. So I think we need to support the committee's decision on no, to reject this bill. At the same time, I'd like to go to the profile committee with a request, understanding that the problem is acute, important and it needs to be solved, and yet I think that this decision will be supported, this draft law, changes to the law, still think about the day before the next election that this problem really needs to be resolved in order to avoid any temptation to take advantage of it. So I propose that this document be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u75	Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u76	Thank you. I'm not going to divide my project proposal into two parts. I would very much like to ask some questions to the authors of this bill, which, unfortunately, the bills have given birth, have registered, that is, they travel across Ukraine and do not appear, and they do not work in Parliament, and the money in the register is more expensive than the MPs who work in Parliament today. This is true of Tretyakov, and of Mrs. Lapina, who was so heartbreakingly disgraced yesterday, including at my address, here. I think so. I thought the name Leapina was telling me what this man was capable of. And I'm making a proposal that needs to be noted, because this is going to be zeroed by this project, a situation will be created where the media will generally refuse any pre-election agitation. So I think that this bill has the right to life only in a way that these authors who are not in Parliament today have submitted. So I really support the committee's opinion and proposal that this bill should be rejected, it has no right to the right to life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u77	There were no other proposals, so I'm voting on draft bill number 27, draft regulation 2726 rejecting the bill. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:52:22]] For 253 Decision taken. In accordance with the Rules, I am obliged to make a comment. You can't mock the names of the other deputies. I understand everyone's jealous of your last name, but not everyone's lucky. Do you understand? So please. please treat correctly the names of the deputies to whom God has given, or people have chosen, as they are. Last name. It's not a person's name. It's a person's name. Let's take the lead on this. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Taxes on the Income of Persons is under consideration. [[about notaryus functions]] Registration number 1240. Is he gone? Is that the law we passed? And there's no hunchback. I propose to take it off the table today, because there are no reporters, and without them, I would not want to discuss the matter. The question is very difficult. No objections? We don't vote, we just take it off the table and everything. It is also envisaged that I ask you to put in order and consider essentially the draft Law 3535 of the Registration Number, the Supreme Council Decision on the return of legislators to the draft Law on the National Commission of Ukraine with the control of the implementation, operation and improvement of the Single System of State, the Monitoring System, sorry, the State System of Monitoring, Production, Supply, Transportation, Consumption and Payment for Fuel Energy and Housing Services. That's a ruling on that. And the bill itself was 3535, 3335, sorry, the Ukrainian National Control Commission Act. I just read what's controlling. Here are the authors of the project: Kubida, Alexandrovska, Petrov, Savosin, Serbin, Shago. Please, I'm proposing to include it in the order of the day, to consider this question. Please. [[11:55:10]] For 242 Decision taken. The rapporteur here is Alexandrovska Alla Aleksandrovna National Deputy of Ukraine, one of the authors of the bill, co-rapporteur Savosin Hennaday Anatoliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is proposed that you take note of the draft Act “On the National Commission for the Control of Implementation, Operations, Improvement of a Uniform State System for Monitoring the Production of Fuel and Energy Payments and Housing and Utilities”. Alexander Aleksanderovich, you must have felt it yourself, too, colleagues, you probably understand a very complex name, but I have called you, but in this title, the functions of this national commission. I would like to draw your attention to the comments of the Science and Exports Authority, and there are comments I have made by a special commission that I can agree with, but I would still like you to think about the essence of this bill. We know that monitoring and accounting is the basis for the success of public administration. Given the particular importance of fuel and energy resources for the life of our State, it is essential to establish a state-wide monitoring system for their use at all stages of the work of the people from production to consumption. In order to ensure these functions in the State, it is proposed to establish the national commission referred to above. Everyone is known for the lack of our domestic economy as excessive energy intensity. Everyone's worried about the carefree, that's easy to say, about the use of energy. And it cannot help but be concerned about Ukrainian citizens, a price policy in which the queens are often subjective and not economically desirable. By the way, we can resolve all these issues through the establishment of this national commission and not as much as this single State control system, in fact, for the use of energy resources in all spheres of the State. I agree with the criticism expressed in the conclusion of the scientific and export administration that their name could indeed be simplified. And in this law, we have, in my view, prescribed the functions of the commission itself. I believe that this law needs to be more described in this system itself, i.e. what challenges that system must address. The Commission itself must, of course, ensure the full use of the system. Critics of this law say that this commission duplicates many of the functions that the State is already carrying out in various structures of the State: in commissions, committees and so on, and in ministries. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no single monitoring, accounting and control system at the end of these functions, which are carried out by different ministries and departments, and that is precisely what makes sense. You know, we have some problem with understanding even the energy balance. We are very often here with you in this room, voting on the budget, voting for funds for certain public programmes, including energy-saving ones. These funds are being distributed throughout the country, across Ukraine, across all regions, and perhaps we need to see where the most effective implementation of energy-saving technologies really needs to be channelled to public funds for their implementation. Thus, in principle, this State monitoring will give us an understanding of these priorities, which we must first and foremost build on public policies that ensure the economic use of energy resources and our financial resources. The fact that the work of the Commission would be public and that the results would be public would be unquestionably public. This will enable Ukrainian citizens to truly understand the situation that lies ahead of us in the State and, most importantly, remove the possibility of manipulating public consciousness when, in order to achieve a certain authority in the people of Ukraine, Ukrainian citizens use some very serious facts as we have an economy and especially energy. Just recently, everyone was aware that the Governor of Kharkiv Province of Habakkuk had approached the local court and demanded that the decision of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, which had established differentiated gas prices, should be lifted. [[NCRE]] You and I here have supported the Government when it suggested that we introduce such a differentiation in order, first, to stimulate the economic consumption of gas, secondly, to make prices for people who are poorer, lower prices, and for people who are richer in gas, by refueling their large dwellings, so to speak, we have made the price higher. Thus, today, the Governor of Kharkiv Province of Awakov is conveying to the public his civic position, which makes it necessary for the price to be uniform for all, and he has therefore appealed to the court, and the court has already suspended the decision of NCRE, and today we hear from the Government that the Government will establish a single price, and that price will naturally be high, and the citizens of Ukraine will be paid for it. If only we could really show people. As far as our economy is concerned, populism, including tariff and energy pricing, would probably be more responsible for such populist statements and give them an official assessment. And the fact that these issues need to be given great attention in public policy also makes me think that no one has any doubts. I therefore propose our draft law to be adopted on first reading. We will be, the relevant committee and, by the way, the authors of this law are representatives of all factions of virtually the Supreme Council, including the head of the relevant committee, and this will enable all deputies to participate in the finalization of this draft law and to make it in a manner that meets Ukraine's current needs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u79	Thank you. The question is to Alla Alexandrovna? Alla Alexandrovna, how would you like to look at this proposal: if we were to rewrite the name of the law and write it about the commission, and the principles, the order of security.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u80	I have already said that the law itself needs more attention, perhaps this monitoring system, and then the title of the law will also reflect it. That's a good point.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u81	Why am I being so thorough? Because, according to the Constitution, we have no right to create such structures. These are public authorities, government controls and so on, this is a function of the Cabinet of Ministers, we cannot assume such responsibilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u82	Alexander Alexandrovich, I beg your pardon, but the fact is that we have a National Electricity Regulatory Commission and an independent central authority, which provides for a special status under the Constitution, and we need a special law, so I understand that we may have been overstretched, but the idea is that this commission should have the same status, the same level. I therefore propose that, on first reading, we adopt this to be the subject of debate by the deputies, we listen to the proposals of the people's deputies, the relevant committee will finalize, and so on, I will not be able to remove this work either.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u83	There's still a question, isn't there? Do you, Vasil Stepanovich? Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u84	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Alla Alexandrovna, please give me a hint. Well, I understand that rising energy prices today, excessive energy intensity of the economy, the critical state of housing and utilities still needs clear government control, and I think it's the creation of a single state monitoring system is a very interesting and investment-attractive project somewhere. And even what you're saying in the explanatory note is that it's going to be possible to add about 3 billion dollars to the budget, it's going to have to be supported. But by the way, it's an extra expense from our State budget and the creation of the National Commission and the creation of the Single State Monitoring System, and so on. Isn't it appropriate for the law to come into force on 1 January 2008? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u85	I agree with your proposal, and I think we will look at this issue in the final stages. I draw your attention, the commission itself is five people who choose, it's people who will be responsible, it's people who will be public, so I don't think there's any special costs. The accounting and control system itself will, of course, require funds. But she'll make a difference. I think there are people here who have some information in energy, so to speak. He's lost. losses, including theft, from not taking into account, if I may say, Ukraine as a vessel for the entrance of as much as we receive gas, electricity and so on and so on. used in production, in goods, in services we will see differences in numbers. And here are the scientists who helped us draft this bill, and they've drawn attention to it. That's what we're counting. We'll figure it out, we'll save up, we'll already get more financial resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u86	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Gennady Anatolyovich. It's a report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee discussed the bill on April 18, 2007. The bill comprehensively regulates legal relations between entities falling within the scope of this law, which will arise in the process of implementation, operation and improvement, and creates in the State legal principles for the activities of the National Commission for the Control of the Implementation, Functioning and Improvement of the System. The following should be said: Many committees have considered this bill. This bill was considered by the National Academy under Patton’s headship. There are positive comments about this law. But when we were looking at this bill at the committee meeting on April 18, there were a few questions: that the bill was not agreed with the relevant ministries, and then at the committee meeting, the decision was taken to take the bill into account in the first reading, but taking into account the opinion of the relevant ministries.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u88	It's all right, isn't
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u89	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u90	No questions to Gennady Anatolyovich? None. Please sit down, Gennady Anatolyovich. Who would like to make a statement? Is there a need? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u91	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I listened very carefully to both the drafter of the bill and the conclusions of the profile committee. And I have to admit that the warnings that have been made today by Alla Alexandrovna, who has self-critically accepted some of them, and from the profile committee, they speak of what is, in fact, an observation. But even though there are serious remarks that are today, I'm going to propose on behalf of the Communist faction that I accept this document. Why? Where do I come from? You know, I want to stress that this bill is an attempt to improve the only monitoring system in the sphere that is one of the most important to us today. But not even for us with you, but for the citizens of Ukraine. Because, indeed, today is the issue of housing services, the question of energy resources today. And even so, and so, even the very attempt to improve the monitoring system of all these processes, it deserves very, very serious attention and support. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, indeed, and quite a strong argument that the authors of this bill are made by representatives of various political forces, different factions presented in Parliament. We often struggle to reach a consensus between representatives of various political forces. Today in this document, this attempt has been made by the author of this document from various political powers. And the third thing I'd like to focus on is that the project is being implemented by, basically, professionals, people who worked in this area, who are really trying to solve this very important social problem today. Now, what we're going to do is, to some extent, go to the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to make the right changes. You know, it's about accepting the document in the first reading. Today, the situation is quite specific. After making changes to the Constitution in part of what the Supreme Council is shaping the Cabinet of Ministers, I think that's what the situation is when we adopt the document in the first reading, we can really, really actively work with it to take into account the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers. And if we have to, even pass it on for further processing, let's say, and second reading, that's that we can keep all the balance we need, and at the same time, don't waste time, which is very important to us. So on behalf of the Communist faction, I'm going to propose to support this document in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u92	Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! In fact, this bill has some political implications that I must report to our voters today. The point is that attempts to assign housing tariffs to the central authorities have been made repeatedly by us in this session room. You may remember that in 1999, in February, and in March 2006, there were two decisions of the Constitutional Court that expressly prohibited both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, from interfering with the formation of tariffs on residential services. In this regard, all these trips by one madam, 10 percent, 15 percent are the very common populism, for which now those local self-government agencies that went to lower tariffs will pay from their own pocket, but this is their problem. I want to talk about something else. We've been looking all the time with you, especially after the gas affair, the authorship that Timoshenko and Yushchenko now share is unclear. We'll only find out in the end who sent Yvchenk to Moscow to break these agreements. After the gas affair, the price of residential services jumped sharply, and we started with you here in the session room looking for a way out of the crisis. According to Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, a hearing was held, remember? As a result of these hearings in January 2007, we formed an inter-committee government task force. She decided to propose, for the consideration of the session of the Supreme Council, a single state system of monitoring, which had just been reported by her esteemed colleague, Alexandrovska. I want to tell you that without this system of things, our authorities, the central authorities, we're going to be blind and deaf here, and we're not going to know where the tariffs are economically based and where they're just being sucked out of our finger. And another thing, we voted with you here, remember, Bill 2197. It's also a whole story of how we worked out this bill on the consent board with BUIT. On February 21, I think it was Wednesday, and I put this bill into the hall, and at the time, the beats took the shield and turned off the light. They don't need tariffs, they don't care about all this stuff, they've got to get drunk. In the event that this bill is passed, my honourable colleagues, I'll tell you frankly, you and I have a real mechanism that will not contradict the Constitutional Court's decision. Because then we will be able to create an objective energy balance based on getting the right reliable information and then reduce the energy efficiency of our GDP. It's that above us all the time, it doesn't allow us to raise our wages. We will be able to assess the real state of economic, social, energy and environmental security and determine how to strengthen it. We will be able to make balanced government decisions of a state nature. And I urge this bill to be supported in the first reading. Of course, it is extremely complex. It's new.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u94	Thank you. We finished the discussion. Desirable ones have spoken. I would like to refer to the subject of the legislative initiative, the author of this project, Alla Alexandrovna. You represent a team of developers. There are technologically two, two approaches. My experience on documents suggests that changing the concept of the law, which involves not only changing the name, but also clearly devoting the functions of the corresponding, creating the legislative principles, would be easier if we, as it were, wrote the law in a clean letter, that is, redefining the first, more faithful drafting of the project itself, we could vote that way. If you are concerned that this project has not disappeared from the perspective of the Supreme Council, then you can accept it in the first reading. But how much more comfortable it is to prepare, as you think necessary, take the floor and say: We will vote as you suggest. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u95	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Of course, on first reading. And it's not because I want to cross a certain line. I want this project to become public, and other people's deputies can speak on it. Because the criticism of the Scientific and Expert Office is indeed serious. I would like the Cabinet of Ministers to draw further attention to this. I mean, if we take it away, we'll work on it again, but, as we understand it, we'll keep working on it, you know? That's why I want other people's deputies to work on it publicly. That's why I'm asking you to accept it on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u96	Well, let's see, we're considering that this project is one stroke outside the Constitution, because there is no Parliamentary function to create state bodies. But aside from the Cabinet of Ministers and so on. It's already a function of the Cabinet of Ministers itself. But we mean that before the second reading, this argument will be taken into account and the editing will change. So I would like to support this project in the first reading, please. [[12:15:48]] For the 250. Decision taken. We need to vote on the inclusion in the agenda that you have, registration number 3483, not to consider, but to include it in the agenda. This is the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. I'm betting on voting the question of inclusion in the agenda. [[12:16:26]] For 248 Decision taken. I have another question to consider about the election and release of judges, because we've invited a lot of candidates for judges, and so they don't wait for a break here, we'll consider and then we'll let them go. But to do so, we need to continue the meetings without interruption. Can I say yes? Don't you have to vote? We believe that we have agreed on this procedure. Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, chairman of the Committee on Justice at the rostrum, is invited to attend.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies, present! At its meeting on 16 May 2007, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the heads of senior specialized judges to elect the judges on an open-ended basis as indicated in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 3539 of May 17 of this year. Dear National Deputies! You are well aware of the procedure in which the judges vote is organized. Judges are in a guest bed, the Committee recommends that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine Zarjek Anastasia Alexiyevna, Mamont Olenna Mikolayevna; The Court of Appeal of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea - Ganicz Mikola Fedorovich; the Court of Appeal of the Medal Vladimir Mikhailovich; the Court of Appeal of the Žitomir district of Zabrodski Mikhail Ivanovich. The Court of Appeal of the Kyiv Region of Berezovenko, Ruslan Viktorovna; The Court of Appeal of Mikolaiev, Gulogo Volodymyr
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u98	Gulgo.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u99	GULOGO VOLODIMIR Petrovic; the Court of Appeal of the District of Ravenna, Melnik Yuri Mikolayovich; The Court of Appeal of the Suma Region - Gagina Mikola Viktorovich, Cononenko Olen Yuriovna, Seminy Lydia Ivanovna; Herson County Court of Appeal - Majdanik Viktorovich; The Court of Appeal of the Hmeljna District - Yusik Oleg Markovich; the Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal - Malininin Viktor Volodymyrovich; Kyiv's interdisciplinary appeals court, Falovski Irina Mikolayevna; The local Apostolic District Court of the Dnipropetrov region - Čumak Tetjana Andriyevna; The local Strysk District Court of the Lviv Region, Schmarcka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u100	A scar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u101	Stramka Ruslana Teodorovitch; the local Seminovian District Court of Poltava Region – Halavka Valentina Ivanovich; the local Moscow District Court of Harkov, Jeremchuk Valery Ivanovich; the local Nižin Regional Court of the Chernigiv Region – Kovalov Tetjana Georgieva; The local District Court of Czernigiv Region, Bilokuur Viktor Ivanovich; the military local court of the Kyiv garrison – Djáchuk Sergey Ivanovich, Roman Evgen Petrovich, Sahn Roman Ivanovich; the local Zacarpathian District Administrative Court, Andriqio Vasil Dmitrovic; the local Herson District Administrative Court, Popova Vitali Fedorovich; Local Economic Court, Odessa Region – Demešina Alexandra Anatoliyovich, Lepech Hennadija Anatoliyovich, Litvinova Sergia Volodimirovich, Mogila Sergija Kostinović, Obortovodura Yuriovich. Please support the candidates.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u102	As far as I could see, there were no comments on the number of candidates to be elected. Paul Gnatovich, do you have any comments to the judge? An offer is made by a committee, but if there is a point to a judge, make a statement. Wishes later. Paul Gnatovich, I want to tell you a story like this. There was an MP here in the past who spoke out of every question, and he's not in the session room now, you know. With regard to the candidature, is there a note? I won't. Therefore, according to the procedure. With a motive, about a candidate? Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u103	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexander. I would like to refer to the honourable judges, whom I am convinced will be appointed on an indefinite basis to serve as a judge today. You are going through the assignment today, more faithfully, of choosing in a rather complex political situation. You can see how the Secretariat of the President's Administration and the President themselves are compromising the judicial branch of power. At first they tried to destroy the legislative branch of power, when it failed, they took on the judiciary, first compromising the Constitutional Court as one of the higher courts, and then taking on the courts of general jurisdiction. I thank you for being brave. Today, your assignment, more faithfully, comes at a time when the moment of truth comes. So you've given yourself a message that Parliament is legitimate, because you're judges, you understand Parliament's decision and what it means to you. So we wanted to ask you to bear your name with honor and dignity.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u104	I would ask Alexander Petrovich, Paul Gnatovich, and others not to take my bread. Because I'm going to give them a certificate, I'm going to tell them all about it. Please. I'm putting to the vote a question about the election of judges just named Sergei Vasilovich, please. [[12:23:24]] For 249 Decision taken. [[Applause]] We welcome the judges and wish them to make use of all that Alexander Petrovich said. [[Applause]] Good luck. Next, we're listening to Sergio Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u105	Dear colleagues! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice also considered, at its meeting on 17 May 2007, the appointment of the Supreme Court and the heads of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine for the election of judges on an open-ended basis, in the draft, pardon me, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling number 35390-2. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine - Sweden Victor Alexanderovich; the local Pecher district court of Kyiv - Kwasniewska Natalija Dmitrovna; The local court of the Odessa district of Baklanov Natalija Volodymyrovna and Iron Svetlana Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u106	I want to. To these judges, to these candidates for judges and their untimely election, there are no observations? Then I'm voting on draft regulation 3539-2 to determine the position. [[12:25:09]] For 249 The decision is taken, and we welcome these judges with their election. [[Applause]] Sulkowski insists, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u107	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I would like to join those greetings, on the one hand, and on the other hand I would like to believe that the judges who came to Parliament today are looking forward to such political powers as the Socialist faction, the Communist Party and the Party of Regions, which have always defended the state's position and constitutional order in Ukraine. In contrast with and regrettably such an institution as the President, who has exacerbated the situation in society so much that today we must unite both the Parliament and all the judges of Ukraine and not allow such chaos and the collapse of the constitutional system. We have to put an end to these provocative situations and put order in place once and for all, so that officials never get involved in such violations of the laws and the Constitution in Ukraine. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u108	Pavlov Gnatovic, according to the Rules and Rules of the Constitution, I repeat to you that you are exerting political pressure on judges who, according to the Constitution, are non-partisan and should be governed only by legislation, the Constitution of Ukraine in the first place. I'd like you to stop taking such steps and I'm serious about it. They should treat everyone and politics, and the citizen, the case, the legal person, the law and the Constitution, and not be political in the matter of one party or another. Then it'll be okay. And if they defend the interests of the three parties today, as you said, whether they will respect them, for example, and others will disrespect them, we will go a long way. This has happened in the world, and today we do. I'd ask the judges not to take that into account. Yes, please, the remark just made by the deputy. The next question is now under consideration. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u109	Fellow dignitaries, the Supreme Council Committee on Justice discussed at its meeting on May 16, 2007, the application of the High Council of Justice for the discharge of judges of the Supreme Court of Agriculture and the local courts in connection with the submission of resignation applications. In their statements, the judges indicated that they had written them voluntarily. The Justice Committee supported the above - mentioned application of the High Council of Justice and issued a corresponding draft decree for registration No. 3539-1 of May 17, this year. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine relieve the following judges: the Zaporozhye Court of Appeal of the Radchenko Olga Pavlovna - in connection with the application for a state of health, the local Biology District Court of the Hmelnick district of Nikolaychuk Zinayd Ivanovna - in connection with the application for a state of health pension. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, you have documents in your hands, except for the committee's report, you have all the legislative documents on the grounds for the release of these judges, including their autobiographical records, and statements, and so forth. All the reasons are, you can determine. That's why I'm putting to the vote the Supreme Council's ruling on the release of judges, registration number 3539-1. The document is voting. [[12:29:38]] For 251 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u111	In addition, the Committee on Justice at its meeting on May 17, 2007, considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of the judge of the local court in connection with the violation of an oath. The Justice Committee supported the above - mentioned application by the High Council of Justice and passed a corresponding draft decree under registration number 3539-3 of May 17 of this year. Dear colleagues, you have a draft decision. The committee recommends. You have a draft decision and the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be dismissed from office as Judge of the local Feodosian City Court of Crimea Gabrieluk Igor Ivanovich in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u112	Is there a question for the reporter? Please, Headmaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u113	Dear Mr. Head and distinguished colleagues, and a reporter! I believe that this issue should be considered with detailed information as to the essence of the breach of an oath, so that it is not as the President exempts the judges of the Constitutional Court for breach of an oath and no one knows exactly what the violation is, what the material meaning of the breach is. Therefore, the Supreme Council needs to hear the information that the judge has made, this particular one, and for what he is qualified for, his actions are qualified as being in violation of the judge’s oath. So I would like to give you detailed information so that MPs and society can know about it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u114	I ask you, Sergey Vasilovich, to consider the question and the proposal. You can because it would be formal to say so, here at almost, well, and the argument is pretty serious about that in writing. But nevertheless, I think it's a question that's obviously the answer that both the viewers or the broadcasters are waiting for. Please explain, you can even do your own, as comfortable as you can, in any language.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u115	Honorary Colleagues, on May 16, 2007, the Supreme Council of Justice ruled on the dismissal of Judge Theodosian City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Gabrieluk Igor Ivanovich in connection with the violation of an oath. On Saturday, April 7, 2007, on Saturday, the weekend, Gabrieluk returned the approval of the lawsuit, within the framework of which security measures had been taken to prohibit the execution of the Ukrainian President's decree to terminate the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since April 2, 2007. However, Judge Kovalenko, who could and should be particularly aware of the court’s decision, granted a court order. The approval of Judge Gabrieluk was given in violation of the requirements of the law, an unauthorized composition of the court, and it was not signed by the judge who dealt with the case. That is why, according to the committee, Judge Gabrieluk is subject to dismissal in connection with the breach of an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-17-m0.u116	Right. Anyway, the man wanted to serve, so I figured it out. In violation of the law, the order in which they perform their duties, and so forth. That's why you have to decide. I'm voting on the Supreme Council's decision to release the judge for violating the oath. Another argument is on your hands. [[12:33:52]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. Do you have all the questions? Ladies and gentlemen, the list of questions proposed for this morning’s meeting has been considered. I'm calling it closed. There will be a Parliament meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Please.
