ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, radio and television audiences! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:46]] Registered -444 The 444 national deputies are ready to participate in the morning session. I declare this meeting open. Let's start with a nice thing. Let's say hello to Mikola Volodymyrovich Martinenka. We wish him success in all his affairs. Now, with regard to some of the things that the Rules provide for the 25th article. On January 11, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on March 26, 2006, in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Kichatya Jury Svetoslavovic, who was included in the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kichiatý Jury Svetoslavovich, is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u3	Congratulations, Yuri Svetoslavovich. Paul Gnatovich, everyone has heard, everyone has heard. By welcoming him with election and admission to the status of national MP, we wish that his work in this complex matter would be successful for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. In accordance with the Rules, I am announcing requests from Ukrainian national deputies. Arnold Radovtsa to the President of Ukraine on the contrast between the illegal decisions of Kyivrada on 29 May 2003 and from 12 February 2004 on the allocation of land for housing to the Office of the Prosecutor. I would like to make a motion to vote to support the content of this question. The question is really very serious, and I would like to consider its reasonableness. I am voting on the proposal to support the content of this question. [[10:07:31]] For 235 The decision is supported. I now put to the vote the proposal to refer this request to the President. Please. [[10:07:52]] For 359 The MPs believe that this request should be corrected, 359. Orest Mutz asks the Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister of Ukraine, First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance for the Igor Šimanski, First Deputy Minister of Finance for the Igor Šimanski, and for the actions of the above-mentioned persons and the leadership of the Ternopil District Council against the decision of the Head of the State Tax Administration to appoint professional staff in charge of the National Tax Administration of Ternopil. [[Representatives.]] Orest Mutz also asks the head of the Supreme Council, the Attorney-General, for the censoring facts in the Ternopolish budget publications, which are the founders of local councils and the involvement in the facts of censorship, the pressure on journalists, who are the representatives of the Yulia Tymoshenko bloc, who make up the majority of the Boards of Ternopils and are responsible for the information policy of budgetary publications. EUGEN HIRNIK asks the Prime Minister of Ukraine to restore the operation of the Ukrainian Medical Department of the Ukrainian Allergy Hospital in the village of the city type Solotvino Zacarpatski district. I made an accompanying letter on this question, and I am convinced that it is absolutely justified, that request, that it needs to be supported. Mr. Mikola SIWULSKIY asks Deputy Prime Minister Dmitr Tobacco for his dissatisfaction with the responsibility of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ms. Helen Hotchý, for the provision of bills under article 36 of the Ukrainian Act on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. Mikola SIVULSKIY asks Deputy Prime Minister Andriy KLEJEV for his dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request for a copy of the contract between Rosukre Energo and the closed-circuit company UKRGAZ-ENERGO, which regulates the supply of gas for 2007. [[contract]] I explain to the radio audience that the applause did not come from the content of the request I read, but from the fact that Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic is involved in the work of the Supreme Council. Let's welcome him, too. Jury Zubko asks the Attorney General, Head of the Lviv City Council, about violations of valid legislation, interests, and legal rights of military personnel to housing in the construction of buildings on the street of Gethman John Mazepa, 29 in the city of Lviv. Eugenius SAUSOV asks the Attorney General to check on the activity of the city’s head. A group of deputies are requesting the Attorney-General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, the interim duty of the Head of the Security Service, the Head of the Audit and Supervisory Directorate for Dissatisfaction with the parliamentary request for possible abuse of office and other violations of current legislation in 2003-2004 by the management of the National Shareholder Company Naftogaz Ukraine. [[HORNIK, GREGOROVIC, and others. Total 7 deputies]] Deputies' groups are asking the Attorney-General not to respond to parliamentary appeals and a request regarding violations of the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizen Yakovlev I.A. [[VALENIA, VAZOVIKA, VETENKA]] Roman ZAZALJUK asks the Attorney General not to respond to the parliamentary request for violations of existing legislation by individual officials in the district of Dnipropetrov. A group of deputies are asked by the Head of the Kiev State Administration to support the activities of the Interfractional MPs to facilitate the implementation of the Dobrik-World programme in the conduct of the children's competition for better environmental protection. [[SLAUTA, HUXMAS AND OTHERS]] Jaroslav Fedorczuk asks the Head of the National Television and Radio Board for a formal discount from the National Television Council and for a radio call for violations by most radio stations of the current Ukrainian legislation on the volume of advertising broadcast on television channels and radio stations. Olga BODNAR asks the Mikolai people's head not to answer their questions about the MPs of the Mikolai City Council, who are complicit in violating the requirements of Ukrainian law. Roman ZABZALJuk also asks the Head of Management of the Prominestbank Stock Exchange for a stay without responding to a parliamentary call for bankruptcy of the open-source stock company Nectar. We send these questions to the addressees, we hope that they will be fully considered and that the MPs will receive a specific answer. In accordance with the minutes of the “Our Ukraine” parliamentary faction meeting of 11 January 2007, and in accordance with article 60, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, I report that the people's deputies of Ukraine have been expelled from the “Our Ukraine” faction. On the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform that the national deputies of Ukraine Volkov Alexander Anatoliyovich and Plaštinsky Vladimir Mikhajlovich are non-fractional deputies. In this regard, the decision is signed by the head of the Kirilenko faction, and other accompanying materials are also prepared. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kichiaty Jury Svetoslavovic, into the membership of the Party of the Regions. And on the basis of his personal statement, I report his entry into the anti-crisis coalition of the MPs of the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council. His statement is also in this regard, added to this ad. We have a day-to-day appointment as Vice Prime Minister. This kind of question doesn't need to be further considered with regard to inclusion in the order of the day, it's a simplified procedure in this respect. I give the floor to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 83, part 1, part 1, of article 85, part 4, of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I submit an application for the appointment of Radchenk Vladimir Ivanovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u5	You have the data on Vladimir Ivanovich Radchenk, who served as Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Head of the Customs Committee of Ukraine, now Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, now Counsellor of the Prime Minister. If there is a question for Vladimir Ivanovich, please ask him. Please sign up for questions. Vladimir Ivanovich, then go to the rostrum, please. Ten minutes to ask. Chukmas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u6	Good afternoon, fellow MPs!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u7	Sergey Redfoot, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Volodymyr Ivanovich! What functions will you perform as Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u8	I will provide everyone, as they say, with the necessary conditions to ensure the security of our country, the national security of Ukraine, the public order, the fight against crime, the coordination of military intelligence, actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u9	Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u10	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", "Our Ukraine" Block. Volodymyr Ivanovich! Today, Ukraine's security is first of all its internal problems. And among them, it's corruption, it's ignoring the law and the Constitution. Today’s government, which you will now represent ignores the Constitution, ignores laws in the name of its ideology and the realization of this ideology. An example is specific to the Government Act, which violates the Constitution at least more than 10 and the norm. Since this is an example of complete legal nihilism, it also leads to society. I want to ask you, do you understand that this is an atmosphere in which we will never overcome corruption and will you act adequately as Vice-Prime Minister, in strict compliance with the law and the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u11	I'm not in this room for the first time. And I assure you that I will be guided as I have been when I worked in various power departments only by laws, by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u12	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u13	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u14	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u15	Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, I have known you for a long time as a professional who has devoted his entire life to activities in the power structures. But you probably know that there is now another situation, there is a change in the Constitution, and the government is a political government. And I always knew you were out of politics. Now that you're in office for the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, you have to take a clear political position. I have a question, what political power do you put this government up to? And accordingly, with what political power will you associate yourself? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u16	I'm not in the ranks of any political party, unpartisan, you might say. And once again, Reverend Alexander Valentinovich, I will be guided only by the law, the Constitution and morals of today. But I very much hope, very much, that in the near future there will be consolidation and power, and the consolidation of certain political forces that are set up to build a state and create that state, really, a flourishing, independent and powerful Ukraine, and I will work for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u17	Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u18	Thank you. Vladimir Ivanovich, I remember you well after the second call of the Supreme Council, we worked with you. I'd like to ask, now you're going to the government, as it were, to coordinate the activities of the power structures and the law enforcement agencies. Please tell me about the law enforcement agencies, first of all, as you think, which one or two priority tasks should be solved.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u19	The main task of today's law enforcement agency is to stop this mess that's seen in assignments, withdrawals, which means, in a chaotic way, at some point in the pre-service assignment. There are many urgent issues to this day related to the challenges of national security that exist in this country today. And that's why we need to create, set specific tasks -- it's a political task to put and control, and create conditions for them to be done immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u20	School.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u21	Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, I would also like to confirm your professional level and express once again the surprise that in the coalition government you may still be unpartisan, but still, some political power must be responsible for putting you in this position. But I have a slightly different question. In your response to what you will do in the government, you also listed the country’s security and defence. So I would like to clarify your attitude towards Ukraine's accession to NATO, to other military and political alliances, which your attitude, whether you need a referendum to do so or not. Your attitude about the situation of the Ukrainian army today, the state of its situation, whether the reform is going or not, and also the law enforcement authorities. Do we need a reform of law enforcement, and will it be carried out with your help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u22	Reformation must go through. On this day after, once again, the chaotic side of every power-reviewing agency in this matter means that we have not moved far ahead, but lately, the last and a half months, when this reform committee was created, including the national MPs, the leaders, our leading politicians, the force, including, as they say, the vets invited process has gone. In the near future, results and reviews will be distributed, and these specific proposals already exist. We need to understand what reform is all about. This is a transformation of the structure that is, in modern times, if we are said to promote Euro-Atlantic integration similar to European structures. So it has to be so that it actually fits everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u23	Please let me finish. Vladimir Ivanovich does not know that the answer is one minute at a time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u24	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u25	You're done, aren't you? Ivanov asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u26	Ivanov, Party of Regions, Lugansk. Dear Volodymyr Ivanovich! We're in faction of the timing and introduction of such a position in the Cabinet of Ministers. I'd like to ask you a question. Today, especially in Ivano-Frankishka against our colleagues in the faction of the Party of the Regions, we use not only moral but also other forms of pressure, particularly on the part of the political forces in such a lack of law enforcement. Do you not consider it necessary, if you are assigned to this office today, to coordinate the activities of law enforcement agencies throughout Ukraine, and not only in individual territories, in order to carry out Ukraine, in particular the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u27	You see, today there are many misunderstandings in different regions. And the first priority is to carry out normal coordination with all the forces to ensure that the laws in the country are implemented. Well, what about the understanding between political couples, I think it's an urgent, life's problem, and only by its actions will it be possible to do so. Here we all need to make a contribution to make things right, because I understand that all of us in this room, including those in this room, are Ukrainian patriots who only care about her future.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u28	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u29	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye, "Regions of Ukraine". Dear Vladimir Ivanovich, returning to the executive branch of professional authority is a professional sign of our time, of course, on the one hand. And this is the hope of improving, of stabilizing the workings of the forces. Please tell me, do you have a vision and an understanding of how and at what time can you correct the bitter and dramatic consequences of the human beings' defeat among the forces that were committed in 2005-2006? It's not a secret for you or for a society that's out of work primarily for professional people, people of high professionalism, who have spent a lot of time and resources on the state and the Soviet Union and independent Ukraine, because it takes some time to raise a good professional force. So do you have an understanding of how this situation can be rectified, and in what time can you do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u30	This job needs to be done immediately, and more to confirm your words, I can make recommendations that our foreign colleagues are giving us that those experts who have even served certain terms in the force department can't be retired to date, that they should either be enrolled in the public service and leave this fund of this experience, that knowledge that is today to teach young people, because most people, the vast majority who are currently working in the law enforcement agencies, are people who are 25 years old. You know, there's no experience yet. And it is better, as they say, to learn from specific mistakes than to make them. So this question will be urgent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u31	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to speak? None. I am voting on the proposal for the appointment of Radchenk Vladimir Ivanovich Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please. [[10:29:25]] For 251 Decision taken. We welcome Vladimir Ivanovich with high confidence, wish him success in a complex area that is crucial to the order, order and security of the state. Thank you. Please give the Turk a word with the procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, we have very serious issues, including the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Alexandre Alexandrovich, Victor Fedorovich, I apologize, we need to make a deal with the speaker. We have the first question. The opposition once again insists that issues such as the Cabinet of Ministers Act cannot be separated from other conceptual things, such as the Opposition Act. The second question. Today, there are many examples of corruption and other untapped things on regional councils. The reason is that today, when we run the party elections locally, we have no mechanism to influence the MPs who are selected on the party lists. This applies to all political forces. And so we demand that we stop the vachanal with the land, with the tariffs and so on and so forth, the next order of consideration. First, Alexandre Alexandrovich, after a report from the interim commission, consider: first, Act No. 2881, which refers to the mandatory mandate for local councils, after that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u33	Let him finish his thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u34	Then the Opposition Act is considered, and after the decision is made, we can move on to other issues of the daily order, including the Cabinet of Ministers Act. This is our request, and we very much ask, dear colleagues, to listen to our offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u35	I want to say that this issue has been discussed on more than one occasion at the Conciliation Council. At the time, work on the committees on him was not completed. As far as I'm concerned, are there any conclusions from the committees? So please, I'm putting to the vote the proposal of the Turkinov MP to put two bills into the agenda for today's two bills on an imperative mandate. The opposition is included, and the imperative mandate is included? But in that order, it's the order of the day for today. I'll bet you a vote. You'll have it now. [[10:32:16]] For 375 Roger that. Please, who wanted to make a statement? Sign up for a motive statement. The Turks, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, you see what a just system it is: it allows you to continue to think. I thank the Supreme Council for its support for the opposition's proposals for a priority review and the law on an imperative mandate, and for the law on opposition. I want to confirm those words that representatives said in the Presidium that the committees had considered these bills. And at the suggestion of the committee concerning the Law on an Imperial Mandate, all questions are removed, and it can be accepted, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. Under the Opposition Act, there are some nuances, but it can be processed for second reading. Therefore, the request is considered in such a sequence as we have just voted. About the imperative mandate, then about the opposition, then let's move on to other strategic issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u37	Feldman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u38	No, it's not. I don't see Feldman. It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u39	Please pass the word to the famous Democrat and Humanist Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to the system of decisions of the higher legislature. In order for society and us to understand what decisions we make, we need to understand that we are creating a system of deterrence and contradictions in the country. If the system of executive power refines its positions in one way or another, society should know and be confident that opposition guarantees that monopolization or concentration of power is not allowed. So it's very clear that when we think about the Cabinet of Ministers' place in the power system, we need to understand the place of opposition. Equally important is the situation that has arisen from Kiev and other cities, and Parliament cannot see how MPs today are involved in the theft of state property. So, of course, it's an imperative mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u41	Right. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u42	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Highly esteemed colleagues, we need to complete political reform. We've taken a few steps. One of them we've put in place a proportional system at the regional and sub-regional levels, is for district and district lists. But to the end, we did not resolve the question of the responsibility of those deputies who went to the appropriate council for the respective lists. If we want to create a system in Ukraine that operates in other civilized countries and we want to be real democratic countries, mother, we have to solve that question in the hall. And we need to discuss and make the right decisions here. Our party is here to discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u43	Instead of Klukkowski Kirilenko, he's speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u44	Kirilenko, Our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, Mr. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we believe that if a law on the Cabinet of the Ministers of Ukraine is suddenly introduced today for consideration by the Supreme Council, it should be considered first, although, frankly, the faction “Our Ukraine” does not understand where such haste is coming from and how, after four hours of discussions, the first three persons of the State can be summoned to a committee and rejected 42 proposals by the President, even without discussion. But the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be able to correct such a mistake. And that's why we insist that, if it's already in order of day, the Cabinet of Ministers law should be considered first and we should go through all the President's proposals and vote, and then decide on other issues of the agenda. Because if someone has made a deal with someone, it does not mean that democracy and the country should suffer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u45	I want to say that the question of the sequence of issues is decided by the Supreme Council, and the procedure for considering the Kabmen law with the President's comments, I support your proposal, we will consider it with the President's comments. It's pink.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u46	Please give the floor to Deputy Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u47	Please, Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u48	Stratovic, “Our Ukraine”, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Alexander Alexanderovich, your words are correct, but not quite. In order of day 2329 it is about making changes, overcoming the veto, but just now, three minutes ago, materials were distributed about breaking the veto. This means that the committee has not yet considered, it has not yet been in matter, it has not existed, the committee's decision, the parliamentary procedure has not been followed, and you say that the Supreme Council has already decided how to deal with this issue. Well, let's not get carried away. If there's an agreement, if someone has already decided for the entire Supreme Council, then tell them that we're used to breaking the Rules, it's our tradition, we need it, politically, and in this way we'll wash our hands, because that's what we've decided, because most of us are. And you don't have to talk, stop at the entire Supreme Council. Not all the Supreme Council is the same, you can see it with white threads, the 12th of January committee is sitting, the 12th of January is listening. When this was the case in Ukraine’s recent history, there was one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u49	Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I invite you to the Conciliation Council meeting, which on Monday, more faithfully, on Tuesday this time determined that when the President's remarks were made, they would necessarily be discussed in the Supreme Council at this session, and the Conciliation Council agreed. Regarding the committee meeting, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u50	I would like to reply to my colleague and all the deputies that a committee meeting was held today at 9.30 a.m. and voted unanimously to bring this law to the session of the Supreme Council and to propose that the veto be overcome.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Thank you for sharing in the discussion of the subject. We have a statement from two factions: the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Party of the Regions for a break, or to give them time to speak so as not to take a break. I think we should let them make a better statement instead of wasting half an hour on a break. Please, Boki Ivan Sidorovich. This is Boki Ivan Sidorovich speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u52	Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. A few days ago, some Internet publications and newspapers published a fragment of telephone talks between the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, and one of the British diplomats. The above - mentioned material reports that these phone calls were recorded as a result of a Ukrainian security operation and mainly the Ukrainian Security Service. There is every reason to believe that the recording of the conversation is real. It is all the more indignant that the leaders of all law enforcement agencies that have technical means for such illegal operations have regularly assured the press and the general public that there is no illegal listening to political actors. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine requires the leadership of law enforcement agencies and services to conduct official service investigations in the shortest possible time, and to identify the sources of illegal interrogations by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Security Service, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the State Special Liaison Service, should provide an official report on the electronic surveillance system. It also needs to be officially announced how many electronic espionage systems have been introduced into Ukraine in recent years, in which they are in charge and who are personally responsible for creating conditions for the illegal listening of well - known public officials. As long as the security department doesn't provide full information on all the items, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will not participate in any vote in the Supreme Council for making decisions on the activities of the Special Forces. Taking into account today’s political situation, it is clear that the breakup in Ukrainian intelligence, which leads to uncontrollable espionage for Ukrainian citizens, is the result of deliberate action by a number of politicians. The scandal of listening to Ukrainian politicians’ telephone conversations should be the subject of a report in the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the leaders of the power forces, as well as by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. We believe that reporting to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the causes of abuse of the service position in the service, on the causes of criminal acts involving the use of special forces in the political struggle, is the responsibility of the secretariat of the President of Ukraine, who have assumed responsibility for the reform of the BSS. The Office of the President should also report on the reasons for its intervention in the work of the Ukrainian Special Forces. In a public interview, the head of the President’s secretariat stated that it was in fact carrying out the operational management of the BSS. In an official interview, one deputy head of the secretariat stated that he was personally conducting meetings with department heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u53	Finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u54	He's personally in charge of security personnel. Parliament should know whether there is any link between the intervention of the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat in the work of the Ukrainian Security Service and the illegal hearing of telephone conversations between Ukrainian politicians and officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u55	Since this question concerns me personally, I can only confirm that it's published on the Internet, in the online editions, that the printing of the conversation with one of the ambassadors of the foreign country of my conversation is absolutely accurate. That's what I was saying. I'm not ashamed of what I've been saying, I agree that this is all published. Because I didn't hide my positions, and I'm outraged by the fact that this is how I can track them. I don't understand who's allowed to follow the talk of politicians and so on when it's a direct violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. I will support the faction's proposal by insisting that both the Attorney General's Office and other services will finally bring order to the state. The report of the Temporary Investigation Commission on the study of the situation in connection with the holding on November 26 of this year of the successive elections of the Kirovograd City Head and the facts of the violations of electoral law is being considered. Reports the head of the Fiesenko Commission of Inquiry. A break of 15 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u56	I'm asking the MPs to take their seats. There has just been a meeting of faction leaders who have considered the conflict issue that has arisen with regard to the order and specificity of the issues that are being brought to the meeting today. Before I give the floor one minute from the factions that were involved in this discussion, I would like to ask you to support this proposal by voting. Today there are many issues to be considered in the session room, but three of them are extremely important, this is the Law on Cabinet Ministers, this is the Law on Opposition and the Law on Amendments to the Law on Local Councils. So I ask you, back up, and the faction leaders have expressed themselves this way, support the proposal that we will definitely consider all these three issues today. And in this order: The Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the Law on an Imperial Mandate, and then the Law on Opposition. I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:35:43]] For 361 Decision taken. To 361. This is, by the way, on the proposal of “Our Ukraine” I put it this way. I'm asking for your attention. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 185, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 120, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. From the faction, please, per minute. Who will speak from “our Ukraine”. That's what we'll do. Kirilenko, please. Then Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u57	Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! The proposal to consider all three issues before the end of the plenary session did not come from us, but rather from members of the Antichrist Coalition and another faction. It is important for us to consider the matter of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The proposals made by the President, 42 of them, are complex and large, and we are convinced that if there is any such urgency with regard to these proposals right now, they should be placed in the order of the day first and considered in full procedure, hearing the President's representative, his argument and voting each of the President's proposals. If the Supreme Council doesn't support the President's proposal, then the veto will be overrun. But all the other bills we don't think are that important, and the first question we're proposing is that we listen to the full procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u58	Tymoshenko. The Turk's talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u59	Dear colleagues, the only thing I want to say right now is that the decision that has now been voted upon has been taken by all the factions' leaders, we are at the meeting of the Supreme Council. And I would like to point out that the faction of the "Julia Timoshenko Block" that made a requirement for mandatory review today and the Opposition Act, and the Law on an Imperial Mandate, supported "Our Ukraine" in their demand that the Cabinet of Ministers Act be considered first. We think all these three laws are systemic for the state, all these three laws build vertical and power and the relationship between power and opposition. And one law cannot be considered without considering other laws. Therefore, we believe that all the leaders of the factions who took part in this meeting will fulfill their responsibilities and their promises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u60	Thank you. Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u61	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. The Socialist faction supports this kind of order of consideration of daytime issues. And I think we should all have political maturity here. It is the adoption of laws that essentially strengthen the positions of political reform, constitutional reform. And today, I think we need to make consolidated decisions about both the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the imperative mandate, and the first reading of the Opposition Act. Well, I want to say a little bit to you that our arrangements that have just taken place on the Conciliation Council, let's say that during the day-to-day vote, somehow they weren't supported by one of the factions. This suggests a bit of a sad thought, but I think the faction “Our Ukraine” will take a constructive position during the consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u62	Rich guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight a few points that have been brought to the Conciliation Council. That's the first one. Regardless of the consequences of the vote in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the faction of the Party “Our Ukraine” will not continue to interfere with the work of Parliament and will not block the rostrum. And so we agreed, all four factions, in the following order of consideration: The Cabinet of Ministers Act according to the procedure laid down in the Rules, the amendments, depending on our decision or the overcoming of the veto, or other decisions; and further bills, which are very important. The faction of the “Regions of Ukraine” has always said that both the Opposition Act and the Law on an Imperial Mandate are necessary today. And that's why we're publicly confirming our position today that we're going to vote in favour of these bills: by imperative mandate -- in general and opposition to the law -- in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u64	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u65	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I hope that you and I understand the importance of today's adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Act in the context of a transitional political and legislative period from the point of view of governance. We see that war continues to be decreed, orders, regulations, laws. And this war is about defeating and taking power. A decision on the Cabinet of Ministers is therefore very necessary today because the Supreme Council is taking a break, leave, and, of course, for a month, there will be virtually no agreement on a number of positions. We must take this decision in a transitional period where it is the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers who have all the responsibility for the situation in the country. I therefore propose to support this draft and to begin its consideration immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u66	Thank you. We've considered all the reflections of the leaders of the factions of Parliament. The question of the report of the Interim Commission is now under review, and I invite Deputy Fesenko to the rostrum so that we can address this issue quickly and continue to address other issues in that order. If possible, try to shorten your speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u67	Fiesenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! The Interim Investigation Commission was composed of five national deputies, one from each of the MPs. As a result of the work, the Interim Investigation Commission established that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 14 September 2006 on the consecutive elections of the Kirovograd City Head was scheduled for 26 November 2006. The territorial election commission of the city of Kyrovgrad registered 36 candidates who were nominated by various parties and by self - promotion. On November 25, 2006, half an hour before the day of the election of the TVC, after hearing complaints from a city head candidate. renders the decision, which at the same time recognises the actions of the candidate for the post of city chief, Mr. Alexander Vasilovich, unlawful and revokes his decision to apply for the post of city head. This position also obliges the district commissions to make changes to election ballots. In taking the decision, the TVC was governed by the following: that candidate Nikolina was suspended on 25 November in a building on Lenin Street for the termination of a TVC decision on the cancellation of the registration of a candidate that could not be considered an agitation. Interested persons were not informed of the timing of the complaint, and some TVC members said that there was no quorum for the adoption of TVC decisions at the time of the review. The circumstances were revealed by the procurator’s office in Kirovgrad to examine the complaints of the subjects of the electoral process. According to article 48, paragraph 11, of the first article, the TVC has the right to cancel the application’s registration decision if it has been given a notice published in public and municipal remedies, and the candidate has repeatedly violated the requirements of the law. Thus, contrary to the requirements of the law, the TVC gives a warning in a single decree and immediately decides to cancel the registration of candidate Nicholas. On that same day, candidate Nicholas 25th filed an administrative action against the Lenin District Court for the annulment of these orders. The court, after taking the action, suspended the TVC’s operation by requiring copies of the rulings. And documents were sent out to be delivered to interested persons. According to the facts, the corresponding acts were filed. In view of the fact that the evidence had not been provided and had not been obtained, it was otherwise not possible for the court to leave the suit of Niculin without satisfaction. On December 14, 2006, the Court of Lenin of Kirovgrad reviewed the application made by candidate Nikulin, overturned his decision, and issued a new decision, in which he had refused to allow Nicholas to proceed in connection with the missed trial period. It should be noted that at the repeated demands of members of the interim commission of inquiry, Ushakov, Secretary of State, refused to provide protocols, TVC regulations, and other study materials. As a result of the vote of 26 November 2006, Puzakov Vladimir Tikhovic received the largest number of votes. After receiving the minutes on the vote of the voters of the regional election boards of the City of Kyrovgrad, the city of Kyrovgrad, by its decree of 1 December 2006, was declared null and void by the city’s successive election. This decision was based on the fact that there were no marks on the election ballots of a candidate named Nickulin. In accordance with article 70, paragraph 1, of the first part, on elections, a divisional commission shall decide whether voting in a constituency is invalid in the event of violations of the requirements of that law, which result in the failure to establish the results of the voter’s will. The interim commission of inquiry did not receive any decision of the district commission to declare the election invalid. On December 7, 2006, the TVC adopts a decree to re-vote on February 11, 2007. The candidate for the post of city chief, Puzakov, appealed to the court for an administrative order to declare the order invalid. He was dismissed by the Court of Justice, but the Court of Appeal of Kyorovograd, after examining Puzakov’s appeal, overturned the decision of the local court on 30 December 2006 and ruled out a new court decision that declared the ruling of TVC illegal and obliged TVC to establish the results of the municipal election by 5 January 2007 in accordance with the requirements of article 73. The ruling of the TVC of January 5, 2007 once again ruled that the election of the city's head was invalid, but at this time it is being charged, it is being conducted in court. And as I learned, yesterday and today, a trial is being conducted. During work at the temporary commission of inquiry, complaints of violations of electoral law were received from Secretary Usakow. A statement by a member of Szczerbakov about her attempted bribery by a deputy of the city’s head was submitted to the district attorney’s office for action. On December 20, 206, the procurator of the city of Kirovgrad, on the basis of a statement made by the head of TVK of the Kirov region, as well as candidates for the post of city head Puzakova, Tsukanova, Manuhina, Hilchenka, was charged with a criminal offence under article 157 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, section 3. A trial is currently under way. To carry out the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the interim commission of inquiry did not establish the facts of interference, illegal action, and the overriding of the official powers of the Kirovograd District Council, district administration, law enforcement officials during the election of the Kirovograd City Head. Thus, the interim commission of inquiry considers that in the run-up elections of the Kirovograd City Head on November 26, 2006, officials of the territorial electoral commission were in breach of electoral law, which requires proper investigation by law enforcement authorities. Taking into account the foregoing, the interim commission of inquiry proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine: to take the report of the commission to the known authority; to entrust the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to take control of the investigation of the criminal case; and to stop the commission of temporary investigation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u68	Thank you. I think the report has been comprehensive and on the questions that the MPs were interested in, and you have these too. Therefore, since there are no questions, please sit down. You have a draft ruling in your hands that provides for the commission's familiar information, the Office of the Attorney-General's office and other matters. I'm putting this ruling to the vote. [[11:50:22]] For 385 Decision taken. Announcing for review with the President's proposals the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and a report on this question, who will it be?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u69	Welder.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u70	Welder. Arsen Petrovich. President Yacenouk Arsen Petrovich reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u71	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The President of Ukraine reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers and returned it to the Supreme Council with appropriate proposals. I would like to remind myself that the President introduced an alternative draft of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, which, unfortunately, was rejected. But since none of the proposals for this alternative bill of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers have been taken into account, the Head of State has thus decided to send this law with clearly substantiated proposals to it. I would like to point out that the President's main position on the promise of the bill is that it is contrary to the current Constitution of Ukraine. Let me divide into two blocks the motivational part of the decision of the Head of State to reject the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. The first part is a formal legal part, it's about the fact that the draft Ukrainian Law "The Cabinet of Ministers" is a direct violation, at least 11 constitutional rules. It should be noted that the standards of the Constitution are the norm of direct action. Thus, the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers comes into direct contradiction with constitutional norms. Allow me to pause on certain aspects of such violations. First of all, it is a procedural decision to submit to the Supreme Council the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. It is not a constitutional interpretation of the rule that, in the event that the President violates the deadline for such a candidate, such a candidate may be submitted to other persons. So there's a substitution of concepts and there's no constitutional transfer of powers from the President of Ukraine to other authorities of the state. The same is true of the appointment of a minister of defense, a minister of foreign affairs, and, in effect, the dismissal of these officials. Subject to the adoption of such a law, these officials may in fact be appointed for a different purpose than for a presidential application. Nor is the question of the dismissal of these officials, which, in fact, has already passed through the walls of the Supreme Council and today the submission of the release of the foreign minister, and more specifically, the decision of the Supreme Council on the release of the foreign minister is already under consideration by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. An extremely important point is the constitutional mandate of the Head of State to stop the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers. This provision is not regulated by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act, although there is a direct constitutional rule that provides for the right of the Head of State to suspend the action of the Cabinet of Ministers and at the same time submit an appropriate constitutional application to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. An important element is the opaque and, more specifically, the lack of transparent decision-making procedures by the Cabinet of Ministers, which was provided for in the law and the procedure for the promulgation of acts by the Cabinet of Ministers. The point is that the Cabinet of Ministers will publish only those acts that relate to the rights and freedoms of citizens. Other acts are not subject to publication under this law. This means transparency in government activities. An extremely important issue is the violation of the constitutional norm for the prosecution of any action or omission in a court of general jurisdiction. According to the draft Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, there is no rule under which any Ukrainian citizen, while defending his own constitutional rights, has the right to appeal to a court of general jurisdiction for the purpose of abolishing or suspending a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. A very important element, which, to put it mildly, is specifically regulated by law. In the draft Ukrainian Cabinet Act, it's the order of consolidation of the President of Ukraine's decrees. According to an editorial proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, the issue and publication of the President’s decree are in fact dependent on its fastening rather than on the contrary. So the question of bonding, not countersigning, because the current Ukrainian legislation does not provide for such a legal definition as countersigning, means that the conflict between branches of government will continue to deepen. Also important is the actual levelling of the seat and the role of the collegiate constitutional body, namely the National Security and Defence Council. The point is that the Ukrainian Cabinet Act directly interferes with the constitutional rule on the control and coordination of the activities of all executive authorities in the area of national security and defence by the Council of National Security and Defence. Thus, the following draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers directly interferes with the Constitution of Ukraine and contravenes at least 11 articles of the Ukrainian Constitution. With regard to ideological approaches to the law. I would like to point out that the Head of State has introduced a completely different ideology of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, namely: the law must form a constitutional function of state authority and must guarantee the stability of state authority in the state, regardless of political trends. Thus, the President of Ukraine suggested that the separation of administrative and political positions be foreseen. Moreover, for the first time in Ukrainian legislation, the Presidential proposals provide a new legal definition – that is the political responsibility of ministers. The President also suggested that the limits of the responsibilities of senior state officials should be extended and clearly regulated and that the law should state that criminal and administrative and civil liability should be placed on them. With regard to administrative posts, the head of State proposed the introduction of the Institute of State Secretaries. I would like to point out that under no circumstances does the President of Ukraine claim to appoint these officials. The President of Ukraine proposed a responsible rule for the Ukrainian State Service Act, under which any state secretaries would be appointed. Such State secretaries of ministries should become the backbone of the stability of the public service and remain in the higher executive bodies regardless of the change in any political structure. The decision to appoint these officials relies solely on the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine made 42 proposals for the draft Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which is the head of state. to which the Head of State urges and requests them to consider in the order established by the Rules of the Supreme Council. According to the President of Ukraine, this draft of the Ukrainian Law on Cabinet of Ministers will only lead to the strengthening of the destabilization of state power in the country, the violation of the principle of the distribution of power in Ukraine to the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government, and the interference of executive powers with the power of both the President of Ukraine and the judiciary. In view of the above, the President requests that he consider the proposals and support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u72	Is there a question for Arsen Petrovich? None. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee. Excuse me, there are questions, please. Sign up for questions. Ten minutes. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u73	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u74	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I listened to your speech quite carefully when I listened to it on the ground, and I could see so much that you were not sure of what you were talking about. Well, I was so impressed. But I am not up to this, but I am up to this particular subject today. Is there an analysis of the law that we are discussing today in terms that we have a different form of power in Ukraine as of January 1, 2006. I mean, constitutional reform is already working. Is that how it works, or is that what it does in the old days?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u75	Thank you for asking. That's a very good point. If you don't mind, I'll rephrase it. In no case has the President persecuted ideology to write this law under the President's Institute. The President’s law and proposals were written independently of positions and surnames, and they were written solely from national interests. Thus, the President’s proposals take all changes to the current Constitution into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u76	Lanovius.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u77	Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u78	Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u79	Thank you. My question will be in two parts. One addressed to the report, and one addressed to the Head of the Supreme Council. Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Please tell me if you agree with the assessment that this edition of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers reproduces the dictatorship of one person in Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and is thus a return to a situation far worse than was the case in the case of Bushmism. And to the Head of the Supreme Council, I have a question like this. Alexander Alexanderovich, please tell me, is this the normal preparation of the question to be considered when the table is distributed after the report on this question begins, and in this table goes first 15 amendments, then 11, then 16, when the second amendment goes between 13 and 14? Please tell me, what idiots are these papers in this room, and how long are we going to be so casually violating the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u80	I answer your question right away. We're counting on you. [[Applause]] That's the first one. It's different. You've obviously noticed in the committee document, and you've seen it yesterday, analyzing the President's submission, that it provides for all those norms that were discussed in detail by the Supreme Council during the first and second reading of the bill. That's why there's no money. Technical errors there with respect to numeration, obviously you're right here, you need them not to be. But the point is that these adjustments in one order were made in relation to the text they had to be dispersed. And it was obviously a really technical inaccuracies and inaccuracies. This is how I answer your question. Arsenius Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u81	I would like to point out once again that the adoption of this law will result in a greater balance of government and will clearly undermine the delicate balance of the three branches of government and the head of state. What about the President's position under this law? At the meeting of the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, a joint decision was taken on the drafting of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act and the joint drafting of the law. Which has not yet been done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u82	Pink, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u83	Anton Ruzicki, “Christian-Democratic Union” parties, “Our Ukraine”. I ask Boris Bespalloma to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u84	Well, first of all, it's information, Your Honor. Do you know that this table is comparatively distributed to us, it's still warm in a literal sense. That's what I think, and it's going to be interesting to our listeners that we were given literally warm material. So that's how it was worked. But the essence of this bill and the essence of the veto, it's understood and justified, because it's not a constitutional law, the essence of which is the whole government of the Cabinet, and inside the Cabinet, the whole power of the Prime Minister, is simply unconstitutional. But there is another serious inadequacy. So I'm looking at the President's proposals, they're thoroughly worked, they're at the level of a specific text, and this also has to be marked by how well-prepared they are. Then the question arises, this document is still warm: whether it was carried out by representatives of the President and the Secretariat of Reconciliation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u85	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u86	I guess so. What we learned today is that we learned about the Presidential proposals at nine o’clock in the morning. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u87	Please, Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u88	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Your Honor, do you not think that the absence of the Cabinet of Ministers Act leads to constant disagreements between the branches of government, and there is a constant drag of the power rope, and this eventually leads to destabilization in the country? On the other hand, here I really think there are four or five suggestions from the President that are worth considering and worth considering. And other suggestions, well, forgive me, are just a statement of known facts. Well, for example, I don't want to be a vocalist, like proposal 16. Those who have prepared these proposals write: “The activities of the Cabinet of Ministers are aimed at the establishment of human rights and freedoms, the protection of the interests of the Ukrainian people by ensuring the implementation of the Constitution.” Tell me, who, please, doubted that the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers should be directed towards the benefit of the Ukrainian people? So I could quote infinity, it's just, well, not for words, you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u89	What's on proposal 16 is, please take a look at the editorial proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. It's about clarifying the standard design technique. And what I want to say about this law and the balance of power, is that if we adopt this law in the form in which it's proposed, there's not going to be any balance of power, because everything will be concentrated only in the executive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u90	Please, Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u91	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction “Our Ukraine”. Your Honor, we know that only yesterday did the President make a statement to the Supreme Council. Do you know when the committee was considering these proposals by the President, who was the order of the hearing, was there a representative of the President at this meeting of the committee? Because today we are encouraged to note that a unanimous committee has decided on the bill, but were there representatives of all the factions that are members of the committee? For nine times two presidents have already exercised the veto in this, such a pervasive constitutional law. This is the second headship when Alexander Alexander is the Head of the Supreme Council. And this is the first bill you've introduced to the Supreme Council, and I now think it's likely that the game will go to another field, and probably the Constitutional Court will have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u92	Presidential proposals were sent yesterday at 17.55 p.m. to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The report that the proposal will be considered was not officially available. It was received today via the Internet at 9 a.m. None of the persons authorized by the head of State took part in the committee. Moreover, the meeting place and time of the committee concerned were not reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u93	Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u94	Give the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u95	Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u96	Thank you very much. Well, perhaps the deep irony of fate is that this constitutional law today will be adopted in a completely anti-constitutional form in a combination of anti-crisis majority efforts and radical opposition. It is God who judges them, especially the opposition. But I have another question, and again, I am addressing this to the Head of the Supreme Council: Alexander Alexandrovich, under the Rules, you have to watch the Supreme Council Rules in the activities of all the structures of the Supreme Council, please tell me, do you know when a committee meeting was decided when a committee meeting took place and when the committee members were informed? I'll tell you that I got a personal call today at 9.28 a.m. about the committee meeting at 9:30 a.m. Please tell me again what idiots.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u97	Yuri Bogdanovich, I was not called, so I was obviously not counted on. But with regard to the time of committee meetings, the Head of the Supreme Council does not regulate this issue; they are generally defined. If there was a committee meeting, that's a question for the committee head, he'll say. I'm in charge, in this case, of the committee's conclusion. It is my responsibility as the chairman of the meeting. Yuri Bogdanovich. And then there's another nuance. Arsenius Petrovich rightly says that some of the laws voted in the Supreme Council conflict with the Constitution to some extent and can be treated differently. But the same can be said of the proposals that came from the President. There are also many standards that do not meet the requirements of the Constitution. Only this will be determined by voting in the session room on specific proposals. I think that's going to be the subject of further discussion. Arsenius Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u98	I have to answer the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u99	And he asked me questions, not you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u100	What about me?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u101	I didn't ask you any questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u102	I'd like to say. Last word, may I?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u103	Please take your seats. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u104	Can I have the last word?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u105	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u106	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. Your thesis that certain standards may be contradictory has a right to life. To this end, the Head of State offered to sit together and prepare a single joint draft of the Cabinet of Ministers Act in order to avoid ambiguous interpretations. What didn't happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u107	Please. Mr. Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich, please head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u108	First, I would like to answer the questions raised by the Committee. The committee doesn't know, like that sergeant, he's all in his leg, not all in his leg. 90 per cent were in a meeting, of all factions, by the way, and no one asked the question, today at 9:30 a.m. 9:30 a.m. In forty minutes, yes. I want to announce the committee's decision on the matter, and then, yes, you won't laugh. So the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meeting today, held on 12 January 2007, considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 21 December 2006 as a whole of the law “For the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, registration number 2325, noting the exact meaning of the above-mentioned proposals to the content of the proposals submitted by the President of Ukraine before the second reading of the bill and were mostly rejected by both the Committee and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for review at the plenary session of the Law of Ukraine to reject the President's proposals to the law and to accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u109	Did you finish the report? Questions to your head. Sign up. Ten minutes, too. Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u110	Mr. Reporter, please tell me in the past that the Supreme Council's session against the Constitutional Commission, as I recall, was voted by the only faction, this is the "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko". And today, according to the MPs, the adoption of this veto strengthens the President's political reform. What do you think, once we vote against political reform and once again, we vote in favour of strengthening political reform, this is not an illusion of political reform?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u111	Our faction goes in sequence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u112	You're acting as chairman of the committee. The question was, let's answer it. Please. The answer is respect for the MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u113	Well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u114	If you need, you know, there was this television broadcast, you can't answer it yourself, I can help, but the answer is that I understand that the faction could have changed positions and could have changed the content of the law, so that's a pretty controversial question. Please, Ruzick.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u115	Anton Ruzicki, Party of the Christian Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine”. Dear reporter, I have such a brief question. Within half an hour, you made a political decision to the committee, or did you make a legal decision to the committee? And please pass on the word Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u116	We made the decision as stipulated by the Rules. I started with that, and we wrote it down in our decision that no new amendment had been made. We've all looked at them that time. And that's why we went through each one of them and made the decision unanimously, what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u117	Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u118	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, member of your committee, Viktor Mikolaiovich. I want to correct two of yours today. The first theory is that all the factions of all the factions were present today. I don't know how about radical opposition, representatives, and representatives of our faction have informed your committee secretariat at the last minute, against the fact that we're not coming. And we really couldn't be physically present. Therefore, it is not true that they were representatives of all factions. And second of all, I want to refute your claim that all these amendments were discussed earlier on the committee. That's not true. The committee procedure before the second reading was so brutal that none of the authors of the proposals could take it to the end, and I left the committee meeting last. And you remember that very well. We went through the very first chapter, and no other amendment was seriously discussed on the committee, but the discussion was conducted under the dictates of the Justice Minister present. That's the truth you said today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u119	Yuri Bogdanovich, this is your truth, and it is the truth. Because you remember, I've been standing here for four or five hours, and most of the president's amendments were, with your name on them, and we've even considered each of the 500 or 600 amendments on the Supreme Council. And you remember that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u120	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u121	Please pass the word to Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u122	And now he's got a word like that. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u123	Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! All the new circumstances of the unregulated way of dealing with the matter are being revealed. The representative of President Yatsenuk said that no representative authorized by the President had been invited at all; this was the first time. Secondly, members of the “Our Ukraine” faction, in particular, did not know about the meetings of the profile committee. Thirdly, members of all factions, not only “Our Ukraine”, received tables comparable to article 128, paragraph 7, of the Rules, which clearly states that the President's proposals, together with the conclusion of the Main Committee, are given a comparative table to the People's Deputies not later than three days before the matter was considered at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. They've just been handed out, they're still hot. Alexander Aleksandrovich, if you're set up for the Rules, you need to take that question off the table and return to it at the next session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u124	I've already answered that question. I emphasize, everyone's been called yesterday, everyone, it's very common when our Ukraine doesn't come to meetings, unfortunately. The President's proposals, I emphasize, are one to another similar to the ones they were at the time. And so, let me emphasize, we looked at them quickly and we gave them to you. There's nothing new.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u125	A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u126	Victor Mikhailovich, I'm sitting here at all. You're saying there's no new, let's see, you couldn't even set it at that time is there or there's no new one. That's 42 suggestions, a pretty big text, and even reading it, well, it takes about half an hour. You're the head of the so-called committee that's sitting, and you have every chance to get into the Guinness Book of Records, in half an hour, by considering three of these important laws and passing this whole verdict. First question. Was it technically, legally, and regulatoryly possible to do so? The other one. Or by adopting such an anti-constitutional law, well, you risk being a gravedigger of the Ukrainian Constitution at all. Is such a role appropriate for you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u127	I want to answer to the so-called Deputy Mining that we have done our utmost, and all present voted unanimously for what we have accepted. Even deputies, not members of the committee, were present, and were present as overseers at our meeting. And we're the Constitution, if you think you've broken it, then one organ that can fix it is the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u128	Lappina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u129	As he said, so I answered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u130	Xenya Lapina, National Union of "Our Ukraine" Please pass on the word to Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u131	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u132	Dear Head! The honourable head of the committee! It is obvious that today's consideration of the President's remarks to the Cabinet of Ministers Act is, unfortunately, not in the legal field. The point is that the people's deputies have no opportunity to get to know the content of the comparative table, including the President's comments on this issue. [[And now the faction's head is talking about it.]] It is likely that this will be the basis, one reason, for the recognition of today's decision by Parliament, if it happens, unconstitutional. So the question is, what is the need to actually act in this way, because we're not limited in that way?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u133	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u134	I answered that question. And once again, the table is given. You don't know that there's a word for it. Moreover, I would like to tell my colleague, Yuri Bogdanović, that we have published it as submitted by the Secretariat of the President. Regrettably, with violations of the regulatory approach, in fact, there was a general text that was not completely broken down into subparagraphs, and that is exactly what we have published.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u135	Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u136	Please pass the word to Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u137	Bespalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u138	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Well, in my opinion, the reporter was quite right to say that nothing new, that is, how the brutal anti-crisis coalition violated the Constitution and the Rules, and still, in this regard, nothing really new. But, Alexander Alexanderovich, now the part before you, did not answer the question of the head of our faction, which clearly called you the article of the Rules, which is grossly, brutally, bluntly. This is article 128, part 7, where clearly, in good Ukrainian, it is written that the President's proposals, along with the relevant materials, are distributed to the people's deputies no later than three days later, violate the rights of the people's deputies. From the fact that the issue is so intensely pressing, in spite of everything, is it not evidence that there are such, yes, conspiracies and so forth? Therefore, we demand that the matter be removed and that you listen to the report of the Regulatory Committee on matters prior to that indeterminate, sorry for the foreign - language word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u139	It's a question to me, I'll answer it. I don't mind considering this on the Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, I would like to say that on Tuesday at the Conciliation Council meeting, when the question was raised that the President had already announced that the veto had been vetoed by the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, although there had not been a legal fact. The members of the Conciliation Council agreed that if the issue was resolved in this way, the Supreme Council would immediately consider the matter. This is on the Conciliation Board, and to the Regulatory Committee, please contact me, I'll sign this assignment. Please, let me ask you another question. No further questions. Have a seat, please. It's about replication. You exchanged kindness with each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u140	No, you said, "so-called committee," and he said, "so-called deputy."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u141	You said, "the committee is so-called." Pick up the stenogram. You pick up the stenographer. And if that's not true, please take whatever word you want. You want a line, say it. Talk to me in the rostrum. I don't want people to hear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u142	I'm entitled to a replica. Do I have the right to speak or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u143	I told you, talk. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I think I have addressed the deputy of Tikhov by name and father, and I think he is the legitimate deputy chosen by the people. But I demand that my voters, who do not choose me for the first time both in the district and now on the list, be treated with due respect and not insulted. As for the situation of the committee and today's meeting, I have the right to call it "so-called," because in fact, it is an anti-constitutional coup and the Ukrainian people will act adequately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u145	Right. The MP has expressed his position, he has the right to do so. He sees the situation. And please don't comment. We now have a regular review of the President's amendments. Let's start with the first amendment. It's rejected. The President's representative, who was, reported on this issue, if he wants to argue again, he can take the floor. That's not what the Rules predict, but if Arsen Petrovich is here? Then I vote on the President's proposal. Amendments to the first part of the first article to the corresponding content. I'm asking you again. The President's proposals are based on the presentation and the answers to the questions. I'll bet the vote on the first sentence. Who's up for it, please? [[12:29:03]] For-46 I want you to calm down again. Once again, the procedure is carried out in accordance with the Rules. Individual proposals by the President are being considered. The first proposal was supported by 46 votes. Second offer, please. Are there any desirable, unwelcome representatives from the President who will justify this proposal? So he's giving up the case, I take it? We didn't stop the meeting, we didn't send him away. I'm voting on this proposal, please support. [[12:30:20.]] For-23 Please, Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! I realize that some people are running out of time to read, it's easier to stand by the rostrum, and I'll do it for all of you. Article 129 of the Rules: “The procedure for consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of proposals which came before the returned President of Ukraine of the law”. The proposals made by the President of Ukraine before the return of the law are considered in order to vote on proposals, amendments to take account of the features set out in this chapter. The other one. A review of the President's proposals begins with a report of these proposals by an official person appointed by the President of Ukraine. The absence of this official does not prevent consideration of the matter. The report is followed by a report from the Main Committee. The reporter and the coreporter answer questions from the national deputies. We've been through this with you. Third. Following the conclusion of the report and the co-report, the Chairman shall put to the vote the proposals proposed by the President in the order in which they are presented by the President or in another designated Supreme Council order. That is, if the Supreme Council decides now to vote all the proposals together, it will be a completely different order and will vote three positions together. The chairman shall act in accordance with the Rules; he shall put every proposal made by the President to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u147	In a comparative table, the President's fourth proposal regarding article three of the law. I'm voting on the President's proposal. A representative of the President has already made his case. I was just reading the Rules, please! [[12:32:31]] For-28 The President’s fifth proposal. Please let anyone from the President justify it. Well, there's no justification, he's already made a point. I'm voting on this proposal, please. [[12:33:09]] For 1 One MP supports this proposal. Sixth offer. Please let him reason with the President, let him justify it, I don't mind. There are no suggestions in this regard. I'm voting on the President's proposal, please. [[12:33:41]] For the 15th. We're looking at the President's seventh proposal, and it's in your comparative table. If there's no reason from the President's representative, I'm putting her to a vote. [[12:34:13]] For the Come on, Yatzenuk, I don't mind. I didn't send him anywhere! Arsen Petrovich, stand in the rostrum. I released him from the rostrum because the report was the committee’s head, as foretold. The President's eighth proposal. If there is a representative who wishes to justify it further, we can be reasonable. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:35:04]] For two. Please, I'm not violating the procedure. Take them, arrange them, speak, set them on the rostrum, let them go. Authorized Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk. I don't deny that he's based on separate procedures. Where'd you get it? Where is it written? See article 129. May I have your attention, please? People need to clarify the point. “The review of the proposal by the President of Ukraine begins with a report on these proposals by an official designated by the President of Ukraine.” Next: “The presence of this official does not prevent the consideration of the matter.” It is written in the Rules. The ninth sentence, I put it to a vote. [[12:36:24]] For 1 The tenth proposal, regarding the program of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:36:48]] For two. Not supported. Proposal for paragraph 2.2. in article 13 of the Law on the Cessation of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. It's the 11th in turn. [[12:37:16]] For two. Two votes. The 12th proposal regarding paragraph 5 of article 13 concerning the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:37:46]] For 1 The 13th offer, in the same order. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:38:10]] For 1 Article 15 of the President's proposal is paragraph 2.2 on the 16th page of the comparative table on the top. I am voting on this proposal, and it is also linked to the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers. Here comes the vote. [[12:38:42]] For two.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u148	Here, look.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u149	The President's 14th proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u150	I'm betting on the vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u151	Why not? [[12:39:10]] For the 15th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u152	So sit down and take part in what you are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u153	The MPs are not here at the rostrum, but they sit and vote. Please. The President's 15th amendment is a vote. [[12:39:49]] For two. The President's 16th amendment is a vote. [[12:40:10]] For two. Once again, I invite Arsenius Yatsenyuk to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u154	The 17th amendment is a vote. [[From the hall. You're breaking the Rules.]] [[12:40:30.]] For 1
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u155	The 18th amendment to the comparative table on page 29 concerning the transfer of powers by the Cabinet of Ministers to other executive authorities. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. [[12:41:05]] For two. The president’s amendment to article 23 is presented on the 30th page of a comparative table regarding such content, and the Ministry responsible to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is accountable and subject to it, and so forth. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. [[12:41:39]] For the four of us. On the same page, the next amendment to the content of such matters, questions relating to the competence of government authorities in the Cabinet of Ministers, is presented by ministers with appropriate government authorities in the system of ministries. It's another piece on the left-hand column, too. I'm betting on the vote on this amendment. [[12:42:12]] For the This is not supported by the amendment either. On page 31, an amendment that refers to appointment and dismissal from positions of office. I'll put her to the vote. Well, I've read the Rules before. [[12:42:41]] For 1 It's a complete procedure. I don't mind, please repeat. First amended, but 31 articles on the creation, reorganization and elimination of ministries, government bodies, services, inspections, agencies on page 32 of this amendment. I'll bet you a vote. I'll explain why. [[12:43:29]] For 1 This amendment is not supported. Amendment 19, please. [[12:43:51]] For 1 Same result. 20th Amendment. 21st Amendment. [[12:44:12]] For 1 Not supported either. 22nd Amendment. [[12:44:33]] For two. Not supported. 23rd Amendment. [[12:44:54]] For-0 Not supported either. On page 39 there is an amendment, according to the President's text, which is worded as the 21st amendment, and refers to the relationship of the Cabinet of Ministers with advisory, advisory and other bodies and services created by the President of Ukraine. She's voting. [[12:45:17]] For-0 Not supported. On page 41, 24th. [[12:46:16]] For-0 Not supported either. Here's the 25th amendment. [[12:46:37]] For-0 Not supported either. 26th Amendment. [[12:46:55]] For 1 27th Amendment. [[12:47:14]] For-0 On page 43 of the comparative table, article 41, as proposed by the President. Relations between the Cabinet of Ministers and the National Bank and other institutions. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:47:41]] For two. No, it's not. On page 44, the President's proposal to exclude the words “heads of other central executive bodies” from the text. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:48:08]] For 1 On page 45, the amendment reads: “Introducing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, at the suggestion of ministers, into a system of ministries that includes government authorities, appointment and discharge of heads of such bodies.” Please. [[12:48:38]] For 1 Not supported. The 28th amendment as a whole shall be put to the vote. [[12:49:00]] For 1 It's not supported either. On page 47 there is a paragraph: in paragraph seven of the first article 46, delete the words “and other central authorities of the executive branch”. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:49:25]] For-0 Offer not supported. And on page 48, the proposal to exclude paragraphs 5 and 6 from government services is the same. Puts the vote to the vote. [[12:49:55]] For 1 It's not supported. The 29th amendment is a vote. [[12:50:16]] For-0 Paragraph 49 states. on page 49, paragraph 1.7.2. the proposal to delete the 14th paragraph of this article, which appears on this page, the words “Prime Minister of Ukraine”. There's a vote coming. [[12:50:49]] For-0 Offer not supported. The 30th amendment is a vote. [[12:51:08]] For 1 Not supported. 31st.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u156	Now, now. [[12:51:28]] For-0 Not supported. By factions, please show me. You see, all the factions don't support this vote. 32nd Amendment. [[12:51:56]] For-0 33rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u157	Now. [[From the hall. By factions, let's go! Let's, uh, let people know that no one takes part in the vote.]] [[12:52:14]] For-0 By factions, give the 33rd an amendment. All the factions of zero votes support it. The 34th amendment is a vote. [[12:52:41]] For 1 One voice. One more time at the factions, please. One vote from the Socialists supports this proposal. 35th Amendment. [[12:53:09]] For 1 One voice, same voice. 36th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u158	36th Amendment. [[12:53:28]] For-0 37th Amendment. [[From the hall. Alexander Alexanderovich, announce to our citizens how they vote to make it clear that no one is voting in the Supreme Council.]] [[12:53:46]] For-0 No support. On page 59 of the comparative table is the President's proposal to organize the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and to complete this chapter with a new chapter, the Ministry of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the central executive authorities. The registration number's like this, like that. I'm voting on this proposal. She's been rejected by the committee. [[12:54:22]] For 1 It's not supported by a session. The 38th amendment shall be put to the vote. [[12:54:43]] For-0 Zero, zero. Everyone gives a zero. It's the factions. 39th Amendment, please. [[12:55:10]] For 1 40th Amendment, please. [[12:55:28]] For-0 The 41st amendment shall be voted on. [[12:55:46]] For 1 The 42nd Amendment to the Final Regulations shall be voted on in full. [[12:56:05]] For-0 Not supported either. Thus, all the President's amendments have been voted on, they have not received the necessary support from the deputies. In accordance with the Rules, I am obliged to make a proposal to the committee to overcome the President’s veto. So this is Project 2325, which suggests rejecting the President's proposals and enacting the law as a whole. I'm betting on a draft law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Please. [[12:57:06]] For 366 Please, by the factions. Region Party – 185, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 121, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 31, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 8. Sign up, but if you release the rostrum. Release the rostrum, please, and he will speak. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u159	Sign up, but if you release the rostrum. Release the rostrum, please, he'll speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u160	I understand that's your opinion. Please release the rostrum, he will speak. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the status of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils is under consideration. Release the rostrum, I'll give you my word. Please, just one minute. Kirilenko's about to perform, but he'll be the only one out of the rostrum, not the band. Please. Everyone out of the rostrum, please. I'm asking you to unlock the session. Let's have a word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u161	How many orders do I have?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u162	One minute, that's a line. Says Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u163	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, as soon as all of us, like the electorate, witnessed the passage of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, developed under the dictatorship of a party of regions. The numerous amendments made by President Yushchenk of Ukraine, members of the "Our Ukraine" faction of more than four hundred, which were approved to the drafting of this law, are not taken into account. After the veto was imposed in the fire order, the committee met without a report from the President's representatives, the deputies of the faction "Our Ukraine", without handing out a table comparable to that of the deputies under the Rules and then, in an anti-regulatory manner, the Supreme Council passed this bill. The Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which has just been approved, allows the government of Yanukovich to usurp power. It is no longer necessary for the President to introduce the Prime Minister's candidature, now it is not necessary for the President to introduce the Minister of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u164	Thank you. Let me finish with the deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u165	This can be done without the President in spite of the violation of the Anti-Crist Coalition. But, honourable voters and honourable colleagues, we are sorry that colleagues from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” joined the Anti-Cristian Coalition today to overcome the veto. I think the Anti-Crist Coalition was filled with one faction. We're sad about that, and we don't think that this decision is final for BUT. But in such circumstances, we cannot continue to participate in the work of such a Supreme Council, in which the Anti-Crist Coalition has now become filled with one faction that called itself a democratic one. The “Our Ukraine” faction removes its cards, leaves the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u166	Thank you. Please, Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u167	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the faction “Our Ukraine” has blocked the rostrum for not lifting pensions, not for raising minimum wages, not for the “Roskreenergo” to throw out of Ukraine, not for lowering tariffs on residential services. They've now blocked the rostrums for their posts to maintain the state administration of their property to manage the sanatoriums. They did not stand for the people. And I can now, on behalf of our faction, make a statement that we have completely deliberately removed the conflict that destroyed the state, between the President, the Prime Minister, between the secretariats. Because it's orderly and it's not embarrassing the state around the world with internal political scandals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u168	Let me finish. 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u169	This is our goal. And we think that the people who actually destroyed the first orange team, who destroyed everything they could just destroy, who, by their own hands, brought Prime Minister Yanukovich down, are still reprimanding something else today! The shame of “Our Ukraine” is that they are going to keep chaos in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u170	I'm asking you to calm down, please. Since it was in the presentation, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Viacheslav Kirilenka was reprimanded that this law does not allow the Prime Minister to be appointed and candidature to the President. I read: Article 8, paragraph 1: “The Prime Minister of Ukraine is appointed to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the President of Ukraine.” Exactly as recorded in the Constitution of Ukraine. Please. I have already announced for consideration a draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the status of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sergei Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u171	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Sergey Sas, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! As you know, in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Deputies of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads, elections to the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, as well as local councils. In addition to rural and rural areas, they follow a proportional system of electoral lists of relevant organizations, political parties, electoral blocs of parties in the respective multi-mandatory constituency. The election of deputies for a proportional system imposes on them the obligation to form on a party basis on appropriate councils -- the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils, except for rural and rural, parliamentary factions to ensure that the political party's programming tasks are carried out, the political party's constituencies on the electoral lists of the organizations in which they were elected. The failure to impose individual requirements on the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, on the status of members of the local councils to the requirements of electoral legislation, leads to “adoptive” in paws, on the part of the deputies of these councils, resulting in the non-involvement of the MP faction, the relevant organization of the political party, the electoral bloc of the party, whose electoral lists have been chosen by the deputy or exit from such a deputy faction or voluntary transition to another faction that does not correspond to the real will of the citizens, impedes the representation of the interests of voters of the respective territorial communities in the local representative authorities. The proposed amendments to the Central Electoral Commission Act, the election of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and village heads, the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, and the status of deputies of local councils were therefore urgently needed. These include the mandatory entry and permanent stay of a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and of the local council, as part of the MP's faction of the respective party, the corresponding constituency of the political parties, by election lists, the corresponding organization of which was elected by the deputy of such council; the permanent suspension of the powers of the High Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the deputy of the local council, the decision of the higher governing body of the political party, the electoral bloc of political parties, the electoral lists of which he was elected as a member of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the local council in the absence of his membership in the parliamentary faction of the relevant political party organization, the electoral bloc of political parties. [[Other than the deputies of rural and rural councils]] [[In addition to rural councils]] [[Except for the village council]] Order of identification and registration. The changes provide for the recognition of the elected and registration of the next candidate by turn of office of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the deputy of the local council on the electoral list of the relevant political party organisation, the electoral bloc of the political party by the respective territorial election commission or the Central Election Commission in the event of failure by the territorial election committee to comply with these requirements. [[Other than the deputies of the village council]] The adoption of this law is just in terms of the will of the electorate. It will be an effective tool for performing party selection blocks for its pre-election programs. Please support the bill and accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u172	Dear colleagues, the report is complete. Are there any questions? You don't? Some people still don't. Yes, please raise your hands and ask questions. Then, please, one Easy. Please. Microphone Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u173	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Sergey Volodymyrovich, I have a question for you, we discussed with you when you were preparing this bill. The draft law provides that a senior party’s governing body is to withdraw from the party in order and on the grounds established by the senior party’s governing body. Please tell me what order and basis are we talking about? It's each party itself that will establish order, or perhaps it would be worth setting up, in the law on the activities of political parties, this order. And make it clear that there is no subjective approach to depriving MPs of their mandates. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u174	Thank you, Oleg Valeriyovich, for your candor. We actually had this discussion with you, but when I asked you to prepare a list of reasons, I didn't get any suggestions from you. I am convinced that a comprehensive list of legislation is impossible and that every political party, the higher political body of the party, must determine these reasons. It is only after the decision of the party’s higher authority to deal with the matter objectively that a decision will be taken on the appeal and the permanent termination of the member of the local council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u175	Thank you. Sit down, Sergey Volodymyrovich. Calm down, dear fellows. As an opposition, I'm going to act now, so just keep your mouth shut. Please, from the Tikhov Committee. Please. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u176	Thank you. Having considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, Registration No. 2881, introduced by the national deputies Sasa, Sweden and others, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending certain Ukrainian Laws on the Status of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crime and Local Councils, Registration No. 2881, when considered in the first reading, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. [[concerning the status of members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u177	You have heard the committee’s opinion, Is there a question? None. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Nobody insists? Oh, no? Is it easy to insist? Okay. I am voting on the proposal of a committee of profile to adopt as a law the Act of Ukraine amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the status of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local councils. Registration number 2881. As a matter of fact. [[13:12:01]] For 362 The law is passed. Let us turn to the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition. Registration number of bill 2885. Who will report? Sweden. Please. There's a group of authors, they've authorized Sweden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u178	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition. This law, as you recall, was designed by a working group on the basis of the authority of the Chief of the Supreme Council. The working group included almost all representatives of all the political forces represented in Parliament. The bill duly regulates the activities of the parliamentary opposition. All the issues that were debated, disputed, as a result of the work of the working group were fully agreed upon. In this regard, we propose that this bill be adopted on the basis of all your comments, suggestions, and adjustments if any.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u179	As I understand it, the report is complete. Please, is there a question? None. Nobody raises their hand. Sit down, Viktor Dmitrovitch, please. What about the profile committee? Tikhov, please. I'm looking at who the committee has asked to speak to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u180	The Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government will, at its meeting on 12 January 2007, consider draft law on parliamentary opposition, registration No. 2885, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Koval, Komar, Tomenko, Timoshenko and others. The committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, when considering the draft law in the first reading, to adopt it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u181	Yes, is there a question for the committee head? None. Thank you. Have a seat. Who wants to share in the discussion? None. Moreover, my fellow Members, I remind you that we have spent quite a lot of time discussing this bill, even though it is in exchange for the discussion of what we have been doing. And by full procedure, we discussed it, taking into account that discussion, new proposals have already been made. Therefore, we have reason to accept the bill in the first reading. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Parliamentary Opposition. Bill No. 2885. Please vote. [[13:15:35]] For 362 Thank you. Dear colleagues, we are now continuing our meetings. Literally two words about what happened to us and those arrangements that were on the Conciliation Council. On the Conciliation Council, all five factions came to the following conclusion, the following agreement that we will work in this order: first we adopt the Cabinet of Ministers Act, then we adopt the Law on Amendments to Laws for Local Council Deputies, and then we move on to the issue of opposition. I have to say that here all four factions, first of all, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" went to the meeting of our Ukraine's proposal, which specifically required the creation of the First Cabinet of Ministers Act. As a result of the consultation, we agreed that each one of us who makes a promise is obliged to keep it. I confirm that the four factions' liabilities, with the exception of our Ukraine, have been met 100 percent. "Our Ukraine" promised that if we first consider the Cabinet of Ministers Act with respect to the procedure, and you see that we've been through it, it's not our problem that the reporter didn't want to stand on the stand and report back on those amendments that he reported. "Our Ukraine" promised, as it were, to keep promises as well. I mean, I want to confirm that when we come to some kind of agreement, we follow it. And I'm very pleased, and thank you, faction leaders and all of you who have kept that word. Thank you. Let's, dear fellows, literally briefly, we have some questions, we'll quickly go through them in the order that there is. Second reading of the draft law. In fact, we have another bill with proposals from the President of Ukraine for reconsideration, this is the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act, registration number 2329 Tells Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric whether Arsentius Petrovich will be. Please, Arsentius Petrovich. Get ready from the Clovis Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u182	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Allow me to present the President's proposals. The President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council a bill amending article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act. Let me briefly remind you of the nature of the law. Under the current law, the composition of the supervisory boards of the two state banks is formed equally by the President of Ukraine and by the Supreme Council. Thus, the President of Ukraine is represented by 7 people, the Supreme Council is represented by 7 people, and the Cabinet of Ministers, as a body authorized to manage state property, is represented through the instrument for the approval of the statute and the administration of the state bank concerned. This bill proposes to be divided into three parts of the composition of the Supervisory Boards. So the point is that a 5-person presidential section will not accept actual participation and legal control over the activities of state banks. In view of the fact that five persons are appointed by the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, and more precisely by the majority, 10 persons will thus be concentrated in one hand. During the vote of the bill, opposition factions, including the faction of Yulia Tymoshenko, supported the bill on one basis, as the draft law provided for the possibility of the opposition to obtain one place in each state bank. In his proposals, the President of Ukraine fully supported the proposal of opposition factions and pointed out the need for inclusion on an appropriate quota by one candidate from the opposition. Thus, these requirements are met. As far as further action is concerned, even if the President's proposals are not supported, the President of Ukraine addressed a letter to the leaders of the respective opposition factions of the Supreme Council requesting that candidates be made to the supervisory boards of the state banks for the purpose that, even if the Supreme Council rejects the proposal to include the relevant representatives of the opposition factions in the supervisory boards of the state banks, the President will include the relevant persons on his own quota. In view of the above, the President of Ukraine asks for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u183	Thank you, Arsen Petrovich. I'm sorry. Any questions? None. Okay. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the profile committee Sergey Klovev, please, the committee of banks and. The Committee on Finance and Banking is called. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u184	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In my report, I would like to recall that at the previous meeting held on 22 December 2006, the Committee on Finance and Banking recommended that the President's proposal to amend article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act concerning the members of the Gosbankov Councils be overcome. At the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 353 people's deputies voted in favour of the new law. Regrettably, however, the President reiterated his proposals for that law, which had been considered at the Committee's meeting this morning. During the discussion of the document, proposals were made at the Committee's meeting by the Ukrainian people's deputies to overcome the veto of the Act. The Committee on Finance and Banking decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine overcome the veto of the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u185	Are there any questions? Yes. Please sign up. Yes, Eugene Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u186	Did the committee today consider the candidature of banks from opposition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u187	No nominations were considered or considered today. But almost all members of the opposition attended the meeting and unanimously supported the Committee's decision. That's the next step.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u188	Yeah, no more questions. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! There is no discussion under 129 and 130 articles of the Rules. These are the President's proposals, sorry. The President's first proposal, which suggests in paragraph two, “with the statute of the State Bank”, is to rule out that the Cabinet of Ministers manages the State Bank in cases established by this law, other laws and statutes of the State Bank. The President proposes that the words “with the statute of the State bank” be deleted. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:24:05]] For-0 The offer is not supported. Also in paragraph six, the fifteenth word “and the Cabinet of Ministers exclude” is the President's proposal. I'll put her to the vote. [[13:24:35]] For 1 One of the people here doesn't like the Cabinet of Ministers. The paragraphs also propose, in paragraphs 7 and 8, the words “five members of the Supervisory Board” should be replaced by the words “seven members of the Supervisory Board”. This is the President's proposal for a vote. [[13:25:06]] For 1 Also one. The proposal to exclude paragraph nine from our law is that of the President. I'll put her to the vote. [[13:25:33]] For 1 Yes, one. The president's second proposal. He proposes a third, fourth, rule out. The third article states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, is obliged to bring the composition of the supervisory boards of state banks into line with this law within a month. Well, since we did not support the proposal to extend from five to seven, they are already in line, but we will vote. And the fourth article: in the event of failure by the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the President of Ukraine to comply with the third law, all members of the Supervisory Boards of State Banks appointed by the entity that has failed to comply with paragraph three of the Act are considered to have been recalled. The appointment of new members of the Supervisory Board in exchange for those who have been recalled is carried out in accordance with the requirements of this law. So I read the third and fourth articles of the law that the President proposes to exclude. I'm betting on the President's motion. [[13:26:48]] For-0 Yes, she also received no support in the session room. So, honourable colleagues, we've considered two proposals from the President, they're not supported. You've heard a proposal from a professional committee that proposes to beat the veto to the president's law. I am voting on the President's veto on the Ukrainian Act amending the article of the Banking and Banking Act, registration number 2329. [[13:27:32]] For 358 The law was passed with the veto. In accordance with the Constitution, the President is obliged to sign it. A draft Law on the Moratorium on the Disposal of Property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations, is under consideration, registration number 2257. It's a second reading. Reported by the head of the Economic Policy Committee, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich. He's gone. Please, from the Chechetov Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u189	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy, following the adoption of the bill in the first reading, considered carefully all the amendments and considered practically all the amendments, except for the amendment of Catherinechuk, which had been rejected. Yes, the amendments of Catherinechuk, which were rejected, were two amendments. All other amendments were taken into account. Ask me to support this bill in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u190	Thank you. Now, let's go, Jaroslav, let's go, let's go. Amendment number one, National Deputy Catherinechuk. Don't insist. Dennis, second amendment, edited. Don't insist. Kozakov, third amendment, partially counted. I can't see. Kniazewich’s fourth amendment was rejected. Don't insist. Fifth, Catherinechuk. Same thing. Cossack. Catherinechuck, seventh. Now, now. The Prince doesn't insist. Catherinechuk, Krutz, Catherinechuk 11th amendment counted. Please, now, now, wait. What, no, no? The 11th amendment is taken into account, and there's a denial. Please, Dry. It'll be all right, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u191	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I ask you to put this amendment to the vote. It's taken into account by the committee, but the session room can't support it, because with this amendment we're actually the property we're trying to save right now, we're allowing it to be leased. Renta, you know, focus: 49 years of age, and to the testimonials, and actually to the acquisition of new property. Therefore, article three of the bill cannot be excluded. And I ask this amendment to the committee, number 11, to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u192	I see. Dear colleagues, order is what it is. If the committee counted, but there's a denial, we need to confirm it in the session room. So I'm voting on the proposal for. I put the motion to a vote in this way, who's to leave in law the standard that we adopted in the first reading without excluding anything? Please vote. [[13:30:53]] For 324 So that's a rejected amendment that was considered by the committee. 12th, don't insist. Denisova is editorial. 14th, 15th, negative. Well, those who are turned away don't insist. Who of the colleagues insists on adjustments that are included, but he believes that we should also be identified by the sessional hall? You don't? Okay, thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Then I am voting on the second reading and generally as a law on the moratorium on the alienation of property, which is in the possession of the Federation of Professional Associations of Ukraine, number 2257. Please vote. [[13:32:01]] For three hundred Thank you, the law has been passed. We need, Your Honor, to include in the agenda and to make a decision on two decisions. I'm voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the day-to-day draft of the State Committee for Veterans, registration number 2410. Please be supportive. [[13:32:39]] For 337 The question is included. And we need to include a draft regulation on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to examine the status of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the normative and law enforcement activities of the state authorities, the subjects of authority. Registration number 2876. Please vote. [[13:33:22]] For 246 Question included. Let us move on to their consideration. As for the honorary colleagues, the draft decree for the creation of the Ukrainian State Committee on Veterans. I'm happy to report this bill because I've made this draft decision. The point is that you know that we have for a long time in the system of central executives there was a State Committee on Veterans. If I am not mistaken, in April 2005, the committee was abolished by presidential decree and delegated to the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. I don't think it's necessary, dear colleagues, to advocate that we have quite a large part of the population in terms of the category that we consider veterans. Our society will soon have nearly half the adult population, and today almost half the adult population. And it would be quite fair for us to recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers come back to this issue and consider the possibility of creating a State Committee on Veterans. I don't think there's any more need to tell you. Will there be questions? There's a question in Laszka. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u193	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Adam Ivanovich, veterans, Ukrainian veterans, of course, need state support and protection. And we're here to make sure that they have better wages, pensions, health care, social services, etc. But when you're motivated to create a separate state committee, first of all, give an argument as to why the Ministry of Social Policy is obviously not dealing with this issue, since it has to be selected separately. And secondly, please tell the same veterans how much it will cost to keep this state committee, its structural units, salaries, government pensions, cabinets, cars, and so on. I mean, do veterans have to plant another government armada on their neck? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u194	Thank you. Well, you may have answered that question yourself in the sense that when the committee was eliminated, its functions and corresponding positions, cars, tables, and chairs were transferred to the ministry where it was handed over. So they didn't cut anything, they just blended in with the Ministry. And I think it's more logical if the body that worked, because there is, in the ministry there are quite a lot of obligations that it should carry out in social protection and in terms of organization of work, ensuring their work. So there won't be any extra expenses here, because they're in the Ministry today. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich Gerasimov. So am I? I don't have a tree, I can't see a tree. Please, Gerasim's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u195	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the Council of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization believes that the question of setting up a committee at the Cabinet of Ministers of the Veterans Committee will be acceptable. But I believe that we must exclude from the draft law that states that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy should be excluded from these issues. We believe that this committee could be a complement to the Ministry. All data on veterans are available in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Imagine, in a village, where would anyone go to work with this veteran? No, it's social. He'll tell us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u196	Thank you, Ivan Alexanderovich. I understand your offer, we understand it. I'll put it to voice before the vote. The question, fellow believers, was one question. Please, Bondarczuk, head of the Committee on Social Policy. Please, Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarchuk. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u197	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I'd like to tell my colleague Lášk that the creation or restoration of the State Committee on Veterans will not entail additional financial costs, because all of these people were included in the main branches of social policy and work at the level of areas, there was only one representative at a time. They didn't have any cars, nothing. They will now be restored to their rights, but this will enable them to deal with veteran problems in a purposeful way. And this idea is supported and initiated by veteran organizations, so we have to vote and support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u198	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues! All of it. That's enough. Please listen to me. I would like to make a proposal that was made by the distinguished John Alexanderovich of Herasimov. The draft decree states: Recommend to the Cabinet of Ministers, recommend it on a monthly basis from the date of the adoption of this decision, to consider the establishment of a central executive body with a special status of the State Committee, freeing the discharge of functions and the fulfilment of obligations with respect to the relevant issues by the Ministry of Labour. I propose shorter, as proposed by John Alexanderovich. “Recommend on a monthly basis from the date of adoption of this decision to consider the establishment of a central body of the Executive Board of the State Committee on Veterans” and to put a dot. And the Cabinet of Ministers, by taking a decision, will determine what, how, where, and where. Is it supported? With such an amendment. Discussion? If anyone wants to participate in the discussion, write down who wants to share in the factions. From the Taran Block, please. One minute, if you don't mind, I think you've had enough time. One minute at a time. Microphone, please, Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u199	Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is a perfectly normal practice and in the context of a perfectly normal European practice, you propose your bill. Because in every country that respects itself, there is a veteran organization called the Organization. And so on. But what I would like to say is, today in principle, I'm sorry, little pen, we've passed the Cabinet of Ministers law and we've adopted it, first of all, for the only purpose that there will be no disunity in Ukraine, so that the rest will be a clearer distribution of power and there will be no conflict. And it seems to me that every bill adopted in the Supreme Council should also be designed to ensure that there is unity in society. And so I would very much like to have veterans in this organization of veterans from the Great National War and also from UN-UPA veterans who are also fighting for an independent Ukraine. And then that would be unity, and I would very much ask you to stand in that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u200	Cibenka, please. After him, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u201	Thank you. The Communist faction. Zybenko. Honorable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, a committee on pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons, reviewed the draft decree at its meeting and supported the decision. The decision to set up a state committee. We came from the fact that the abolition of the State Committee on Veterans in the year six of the great victory was a violation of veterans. But we talked about it when we discussed the draft decree. And I would like to express my wish to the future committee on veterans' affairs that it was meant to address the whole range of issues of social protection for veterans. So that he wouldn't separate part of the veterans for himself, as it was, unfortunately, until recently, but to deal with all the problems of veterans. And I would like to emphasize once again that the Communist faction and the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons support the idea of creating a State Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u202	Thank you. Bondarczuk will pass the microphone to the Red Eye, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u203	Thank you. Red-headed Sergei, faction of the Socialist Party. I would like to draw the attention of my distinguished colleagues, above all, to the fact that in world practice, such structures exist in almost all the nations of the world. Just one example of America: Of the eight U.S. ministries, the Department of Veterans and its budget, by the way, 79 billion dollars. We're just wondering where the chairs are, the cars. This is the first time. It's different. Indeed, the functions of this committee are not as social as, in fact, what Taran was doing was working with the veteran organizations, just the patriotic upbringing that Ukraine needs. This is actually this function, this committee. The Soccer faction supports the creation of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u204	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the results of the vote for inclusion in the agenda have shown that we have every reason to support this proposal. But once again for the transcript, I would like to point out that the Supreme Council decides: the Cabinet of Ministers should recommend, on a monthly basis from the date of adoption of this decision, the question of the creation of a central executive body, the State Committee on Veterans. [[First paragraph of the first paragraph]] Let's move on to the committee. And the following points. With such an amendment, I am voting on the number 2420 ruling as a whole. Please vote. [[13:44:54]] For three hundred Thank you. Decision taken. Now for the Cabinet of Ministers. A draft Decision No. 2876 on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to study the status of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the normative and law enforcement activities of state bodies, officials, and entities of authority is under consideration. Author of the Komar Legislative Initiative. Is it? Please, Mikola Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u205	Dear colleagues, in recent times those who hold the highest positions in the state, the authorities and their officials have taken decisions, including individuality, exceeding the powers established by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The legal nihilism of the above - mentioned individuals provides a basis for balancing the system of government, which in turn provokes the mistrust of Ukrainian citizens in the authorities, their officials, and officials. In view of the foregoing, we consider it necessary to establish a temporary special commission to ensure that the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine are adhered to in the normative and law - enforcement activities of the public authorities and to prepare a preliminary review of the issues involved. The main tasks of the Provisional Special Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are to identify: First. Study of the status of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine of acts of current legislation of Ukraine. The other one. Conducting monitoring of acts issued by the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Third. Preparation of projects for the decisions of the Supreme Council. The adoption of this decision does not generate additional budget costs. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u206	Thank you. I can see who wants to sign up, please. All right, let's sign up for one faction, three minutes. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u207	I don't understand what this commission you're proposing to create is going to do in Parliament. What are the facts? I remember we were on a committee where you and I are going in, a draft of your decision, and you never gave any information about what the facts of the legislation were. What is it that we will consider? We're in Parliament almost every day creating commissions. Instead, you would advise the Head of the Supreme Council, who is part of your so-called anti-crisis coalition, to sign the Law on Investigative Commissions, which he would sign so that the commissions would have authority and rights rather than beat our fellow deputies in Kirovgrad on the face and not let them into the election commission or anywhere else. Instead, you propose to create a new commission that will make no sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u208	Cheers. I've been waiting for such questions and I want to say that, as the previous speaker says, the so-called Constitutional Court has accepted many cases and whatever you interrupt, I would have finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u209	Follow the ethics of conduct. Please, Mikolo Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u210	So you know, your honorary colleagues, as much as the President has asked the Constitutional Court to clarify the constitutionality and legitimacy of the State documents and the Cabinet of Ministers. You know that the Ministry of Justice is constantly dealing with these issues. There is no such clarity to this day. Today we have done a great deal, we have voted on the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. Today we have taken a step in defining the function, the role of opposition in the Ukrainian state. As long as all of this is done until the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u211	Yes, Billorus Oleg, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u212	Please give the floor to the Turkinov People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u213	Turk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u214	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have not quite understood the purpose of creating this commission of inquiry. I would like to advise the honourable colleagues, but still the commission of inquiry is certainly the formula of work first of all, opposition. And an opposition that has no prosecutors, no minister of justice, no other legal and other influences, and no information can really create investigative committees to do so. You have a minister of justice, please. You have other issues in the Cabinet of Ministers, including the possibility of appealing to the courts and other institutions. So I think it's just a waste of form that you're still taking for yourself. It will only distract you from your work. But that's not what I wanted to talk to you about. I approached a respected reporter and said that it turned out that four of the men who were on the committee were, unfortunately, not exactly lawyers. We'd ask the lawyer to include it, I asked Pisarenko to do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u215	Alexander Valentinovich, when we vote, you say your proposals, we make personal changes. It doesn't have a problem. Please, Mikolo Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u216	Yes, indeed, there was an agreement in Pisarenko, and it is already included. And, Alexander Valentinovich, I've already signed up for registration in exchange for this document. As for the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u217	Pisarenko instead of who?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u218	Instead of Biruk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u219	Birukka, fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u220	Yes. It's out of voice, but I've already signed it and it's already documented. On the first question you asked. Followed by a commission. This commission is not called an investigator, but a temporary special commission. The following committees, you speak quite faithfully, and we have foreseen this in the draft Opposition Act, this is indeed a function of opposition. With regard to the Temporary Special Commission, it will have to perform these functions with regard to the monitoring of acts issued by the President and the Cabinet of Ministers for the period as long as we approve the Opposition Act and other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u221	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If you want to share in the discussion, raise your hands. Sign up from factions one minute at a time who wants to participate. Please, Lukyanczuk, Block Timoshenko. Who, Oleg Belarus?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u222	I'd like to give it to Belarus, Oleg Grigorovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u223	Belarus microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u224	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The creation of a special commission with such functions, prerogatives, and powers gives rise to wonders. We have a large prosecutor's apparatus, we have a president as a guarantor of the Constitution, we have a judicial system. And that's why I think it's quite impolite for the parliamentary commission to take responsibility for monitoring the compliance of the Constitution with the higher, middle concrete officials and so on and so forth, because here is the logic behind the investigation, and by the investigation, I say, the court and the hearing. It's not real. I don't know who was such a romantic initiator.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u225	Please, Bulba Stepan, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u226	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I believe that the creation of a temporary commission is relevant today, given that even the guarantor of the Constitution has recently been in violation of the same basic law quite often as I am. That is why Parliament has the full right to exercise parliamentary control over the activities of any official. And it's not just about people, let's say who I just sounded, but anyone, including acts from the Cabinet of Ministers, from individual ministries and so on. And I think we need to create it. In fact, we are obliged to exercise parliamentary control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u227	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm once again drawing your attention to what has been said here. We don't create a special investigation commission that's going to be someone, as they say here, twist their hands and put them under the wall. We're creating a sort of monitoring commission for how legislation is being implemented. And, I think. There is absolutely no, well, supposing that this is the responsibility of Parliament, parliamentary control. It's only for the benefit of having a group of representatives of each faction sit down and report on the state of legislative and legislative work in the state. I think they're the solution. Neither the President nor the Cabinet of Ministers nor the Supreme Council will be obliged to make any decision. It will be accepted by those who can accept it. Their task will be to monitor decisions taken and how they comply with the Constitution and laws. I'm voting on the whole adoption of Supreme Council Order 2876 amending the Timoshenko Block, they're proposing instead of Biruk's colleague, Pisarenko. So this is the change that I'm putting to the vote as a whole. Please be supportive. [[13:56:39]] For 242 Thank you. Decision taken. And we've got one question left, dear fellows, it's got a beard on us because we've been approaching it for a long time. Yesterday we decided to consider the reduced procedure. This is a bill, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code. [[on the introduction of transparent mechanisms for land sales, land leases]] Registration number 2520. Reported by national deputy Olga Borisovna Bodnar. Get Beazenka ready from the committee. Please, Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u228	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman. The bill that I'm presenting is aimed at introducing transparent mechanisms for selling and acquiring land leases. This is a very relevant issue today, and the fact that bills with similar subject-matter are increasingly being tabled by the Agrarian Committee only confirms this. Despite the fact that the de jure issue of the land market has not yet been settled, the relevant bill has not yet been adopted, de facto it exists. Local councils and administrations, applying the Earth Code differently, approve their own arrangements for conducting land trades that are not typical. For example, between 1 January 2002 and 31 December 2003, 47 auctions were held in 18 locations in Ukraine. But corruption in the earth’s market occurs when land trades simply do not take place, and the land is distributed for a penny. Local budgets, because of shadow equipment, do not receive huge sums. You and I have overcome the veto, the president has signed a bill banning privatization, selling land. In doing so, we have protected our greatest national wealth — the earth. The bill under consideration is a logical continuation of the changes mentioned. Firstly, competitors are introduced to lease or sell land-free areas of non-laxed land that are in state and municipal property. Such agreements are proposed to be made solely on the basis of the results of the land trade in the form of auctions. An exception is made only in cases where land is transferred for the construction of buildings at the expense of State or local budgets for the construction of social objects and for the execution of international contracts. Secondly, it is envisaged that the starting price of land sales or rent rights on land should be not less than the market price and should be based on an expert monetary valuation as foreseen by the article.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u229	Finish up, but you have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u230	I've got it. Article 5 of the valid land assessment law stipulates that an expert evaluation is used in the incorporation of civil law agreements. Moreover, the provisions of the Land Code are consistent with the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activities, according to which land trade is to be conducted on the basis of a licence, not a permit. You may have noted that the proposed bill has been introduced to amend the previously distributed bill. It takes into account all the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the members of the Profile Committee in the previous project edition, for which I am deeply grateful. The adoption of the bill will allow for transparent land operations, significant costs to be included in the local budgets of all levels. By means of an auction mechanism to implement land lease rights, local self - government will be able to obtain additional financial resources, leaving the authority to manage the land. In view of the urgent need for an urgent solution to the problem, please support the bill and adopt it in the first reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u231	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. Have a seat, please. No, because it's a shortcut procedure. How careless you are today. Please, Bebezenka from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u232	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill amending Ukraine's Land Code and Ukraine's Land Rental Act provide for very relevant changes. But in order to register this bill, there were quite a number of observations that our subcommittee had made. And it's been developed by the authors in its entirety. This bill was followed not only by an expert evaluation on our committee but also by a working group on harmonization of land legislation. So given that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council is proposing to adopt the bill as a basis, our committee believes that the proposed bill, which has passed our expert evaluation, can also be adopted as a whole. And I asked you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u233	Thank you, Valery Fedorovich, sit down, please. Are there speakers? Please sign in. Green – “for”, red – “against”. But don’t push both there and there because the computer won’t work. Because some of you do that, and then you get offended. Please support Oleg Belarus. I'll have the microphone out of the room, please. Who? Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u234	Dear colleagues, Your Honor Chairman, I would like to draw your attention to three details when this law is passed. The first detail. This is the third bill passed by the Supreme Council after the President's veto. We passed with you the law “On Criminal Responsibility for the Free Seizure of Lands” yesterday, adopted the law “On the Order of the Seizure of Lands for Public Needs” and today we are also adopting a very important law, amending the law “On Land Rental” and the Code of Land. So we can conclude that the Supreme Council is fulfilling its commitments that we made on Wednesday, namely, during 2007, to work out the necessary package of laws that would fully unlock the potential of the Earth Code and land reform. Third. This law, respected colleagues, is a foregleam of that law that will be fundamental to the land market and the agricultural assignment. So the principles of competition are written down, the auction principles are written down, the principles that fully reflect the market status of land reform. I would also like to point out that this law once again emphasizes that we agreed in this room on Wednesday, that with regard to agricultural land, without changing their intended use in successive periods. So the next law we have to work on is the basic law that we agreed on here. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, the first half of the year is set aside for us to adopt all these laws, because the government is still going to have to adopt dozens of regulations. How many legal acts will the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of State, the Ministry of Agrarian Politics and the authorities of local self-government have to take? I mean, I call for consistency and this law to be passed in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u235	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. And once again, I'm stressing that both the reporter and the co-reporter from the committee said it was a substitute project. So after the first project, they took into account all the observations that were on the profile committee, the observations that were on the Science and Experimental Authority. Thus, taking into account the opinion of the profiling committee, we have reason to vote in favour of this law as a whole. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of transparent mechanisms for the sale of land areas for the acquisition of land leases at number 2520. Please vote. [[2:05:52]] For 327 The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u236	Dear National Deputies! We are approaching the closing of today’s session and the closing of the second session. At this time, the entire Cabinet of Ministers is taking part in the work of the Supreme Council, headed by the Prime Minister. I think it's a significant event. And so are the leaders of the institutions and offices of Ukraine, and the Central Electoral Commission, the Antimonopoly Committee, the Court of Auditors, the Administrative Court, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Constitutional Commission, the head of the Fund of Holding, the Attorney General of Ukraine and the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. Let's welcome them. And I said to the Constitutional Commission, the Constitutional Court, if you'll excuse me. Even Valentin Aleksandrovitch went there. I would like to give the floor to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u237	Dear National Deputies! Dear Alexander Alexander! First of all, we've just consulted here in the government and we've decided to publicly thank you all very much for supporting the government, for adopting the law. For the first time in 15 years of independence, the government was granted its legal rights. Thank you very much. I think this event, it's decisive. On the last day of the session, we saw that Ukrainian parliamentarians can unite around the issues that affect life in our country. And practically this session, it has convinced us that finding compromises on many of the issues of our country's vitality, always leads to success. It always creates conditions for the consolidation of society and makes it possible to raise the level of economy and the standard of living of our people. Of course, we all dream that one day Parliament will vote on many matters by a constitutional majority. And that way, it will only lead to an improvement in the internal situation, to the calming of society and, of course, to the stabilizing of our external relations with our partners everywhere in the world. Because we know that it is the image of the country that gives us the opportunity and confidence in the future to address many issues of the protection of our country's national interests. This session was beginning to be difficult, but we've overcome another part of the time that leads us to our future. I'm sure 2007 will be even more successful, because these five months we've worked, the government and parliament, they've enabled us to stabilize the economy. And I wanted to inform you, honourable national deputies, that the growth of the internal gross product in five months was on average more than 8 percent. And in 2006, it's going to be about 7 percent GDP growth. By 19 percent, we raised real wages. I think one of the major gains in the last five months has been overcoming the budget crisis. Because about 7 billion breakups, a cash gap in budget execution, he was said to have given us no optimism at the beginning of our work. We overcame this gap and a slightly more than 104 percent budget. I've only mentioned some examples that allow us to say that the 2007 start is a good one. We believe that in 2007 the growth of the internal gross product will preserve the dynamics that have been in recent months. This means that we will have the opportunity to invest more in our economy. And the budget that was adopted in this room will also contribute to this. It is the innovation and investment model of our country's development that will allow for a significant growth of the economy, stability of the revenue to the budget. I can say with confidence that, starting from 1 month, since January of this year, we will ensure that the budget is implemented by 100 percent. That is, the budget will be implemented according to the budget schedule and will be facilitated by the well-established work of the government and the parliament. I stress to Parliament that this is all about coalitions and opposition, because we've been working together lately. Our cooperation enables us to see our future together. These are signs that Ukrainian parliamentaryism is already mature, that Ukraine has started to build a new system of power, the parliamentary-presidential system, which is most effective. And we think that's the main win in 2006. In 2007, you and I are looking forward to the adoption of the Local Self-Government Act, which is also a change to the Constitution, which is an integral part of constitutional reform. I'm sure we'll get through this. So I'd like to close the first session again today at this hour, if you'll excuse me, second session, once again, to thank you very much. I think that, together with you, we should thank the Ukrainian people, who, looking at how we solve national issues, sometimes wonders, but their patience, they say, has no limits and we should all bow down and say thank you very much to our people. We're going to correct those mistakes that we sometimes make, we're going to do everything we can to make people trust in power, and it's going to be when the authorities as a whole work effectively when there's an effective system of government governance in general. A big thank you and a low crease. And I'll see you in a new session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u238	The speech is given to the Head of the Supreme Council of Frost, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-12-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, respectable Victor Fedorovich, heads of state institutions and organizations! We're finishing the second session today and the final came out, at first glance, not quite beautiful, because some of the deputies left the session room. I'd like us not to cry and feel like it's some kind of extraordinary event. The whole point is that the situation in Parliament reflects the general political situation in the state. There is a very complex process of changing the functions, the powers and responsibilities of the authorities, the institutions of power. In no country has it ever been painless, and Ukraine is no exception. Therefore, it is natural that such a reaction by a political power that supports the President's institution, and although they well understand that without the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, power cannot function effectively. And although they understand very well that the differences between the draft law introduced by the President and the project that we have adopted and approved, by overcoming the veto, are not significant enough to react in this way. Nevertheless, they have the right to express their position in this way. And they need to be respected for thinking that this position is right and that is how they stand up for it. But I want to join the words that Victor Fedorovich said about the new quality of Parliament's work and power in general. Because this new quality has not only been demonstrated by the veto or the adoption of such an important law. This new quality was demonstrated by the fact that many of those laws that have social significance, the state-wide significance, were adopted by the Supreme Council by the constitutional majority. This means that both people who stand up for opposition beliefs and those who are representatives of the pro-powered coalition, when it comes to the interests of the state, vote in the same way. Take all the laws that apply to the World Trade Organization. Absolutely difficult laws, and for this reason we will still have much to do with the government and not only with the government to defend the interests of the producers in Ukraine, but the vote has been convincing, and it has demonstrated to the world, including commitment, Ukraine's commitment to joining the World Trade Organization and defending Ukraine's interests in the future. Social laws have been passed by a large number, and they have also been voted on mostly by a constitutional majority. The issues relating to land relations, the organization of legal relations in this area of economics and national wealth also demonstrated the unity of the approaches of the various political forces that are in Parliament, and this may to some extent be an excuse for voters who are not satisfied with the results of the March 2006 vote. Nevertheless, the hope that Parliament will deal effectively with its functions is, and it is confirmed by work at this time. I'm not going to be doing statistics right now on how many laws we've discussed, where the sequence, what the effectiveness of these laws, and so on, is what we're talking about. In general, it's obviously a somewhat incorrect statistic, because every law and law cannot be compared, is an amendment to the law of one article, which can be considered by a reduced procedure, and there is a capital law, which is massive, which applies to many directions of law relations. I hope, and probably Valentina Alexandrovich, we will make this statistical report in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine for who is interested in this topic. He will read, and he will understand what Parliament was working on. I just want to say that we've passed 130 laws, either in a new edition or new laws, that we've carefully considered proposals from the President, that 35 bills have come from him, they've all been considered by Parliament, 17 of them approved as laws of Ukraine. This says that we work closely with the President's Institute. True, sometimes this cooperation is regulated by too many vetoes, not by the legislative body and perhaps by the institution of the President, because I have no doubt that the legal service in the Supreme Council is the most qualified in Ukraine compared to other institutions of power. But if 25 percent or more of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council fall under the President's veto, it says that there is not only a legal but also a political element to determine the ratings. We mean this, and this is also explained by this transitional period from the presidential-parliamentary to the parliamentary-presidential form of government. We should not forget the historical period during which we worked during the second session, and what complex and extremely complex issues were dealt with especially in the international context. And these difficult negotiations, which have been conducted by Parliament's structures, I would like to consider one thing first: I regularly read the reports of our delegations and the lines of inter-parliamentary cooperation, and the official delegations leaving Parliament, I read these documents carefully for 17 years, and I want to say that today is a qualitatively different level of conclusions and proposals, and the participation of our deputies in such meetings. Here is Andrew School, who can confirm these conclusions, because I meant both his information and other deputies -- Dinner and others. They thoroughly analyze the situation in the world and see the role of Ukraine, the ability of parliament to defend our interests, to defend them in various areas of our external political activity. At the same time, the Cabinet of Ministers made many contacts with our partners, with our neighbours, and demonstrated its position in Europe and across the ocean, and in the East, I think that was perceived positively in society and in Parliament as well. The President's Institute worked intensively in this regard, and the meeting of the last presidents of Russia and Ukraine must have demonstrated that, too. I think that's the way we should go. We have to set up, protect our interests where they are, using all the institutions of the state. We have a different level, a different level of interaction with the Cabinet of Ministers. During your special consideration of the Budget Law and all that has to do with it, you have not once experienced it. And this has enabled, even when looking at the budget in an articleistic way, to find an optimal solution, including with the President's Institute after the veto on this document, in order for the basic financial law to be adopted at the right time by the State's main financial document. I realize that this gives us some work to do in the future so that we can have more time to prepare such documents in a better way. And I'm convinced that we're going to have that kind of time because there's not going to be any nuances that occur during the organizational sessions of the first session. So I'm immediately asking representatives of the committee, in particular the financial and banking activities, of the Committee on Budgets to prepare the relevant normative documents. We adopted a forward-looking legislative work plan during this session. And for the next session -- I'm addressing all the deputies, the heads of committees and factions in particular -- so that they can plan their work and put together a general plan for the work of the High Council in the third session as a basis for this forward-looking plan. Moreover, I can determine in advance that the most important topic for the next session will, of course, be the continuation of political reform, in particular the consideration of those bills relating to the improvement of the Constitution. In this case, I don't just touch on local self-government issues, because that's a really clear and important topic for everyone. We will not turn our backs on this matter, and we will be sure to resolve it. It's also about what we talked to the President and the Prime Minister a few days ago, because the practice of introducing changes to the Constitution has shown some irregularities, some tense moments, which, of course, need to be expanded, to find a formula for solving planned or unforeseeable conflicts. And this can be done by complementing the changes to the Constitution. We hope that the Constitutional Court will work effectively at this time, because it has been six months since its creation, and we do not yet have the decisions we need, particularly under Law 0900. This means a law that had previously had registration number 3207 — amendments to the law on local self - government. So I think this work is going to go on more effectively and with more dynamics. I think it was an accident to discuss between the President's Institute and the Cabinet Institute because there was this process that we talked about from the very beginning today. I understand perfectly that the Supreme Council has tried to remove unnecessary tensions, especially if they were subjective. This line will continue, and Parliament will carefully monitor the level, the quality of implementation of the decisions taken by both the President and the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council, because they are normative and need such control in accordance with the functions defined both in the Rules and in the Constitution of Ukraine. In concluding my speech, I would like to say just two things that, I would say so, remain in the dry balance after all the discussions that have been held during, actually, six months of Parliament's work: a course for raising the role and status of local councils, for strengthening democracy remains unchanged, and it will be provided by the Supreme Council. And secondly, I am increasingly convinced that Parliament will work out all of our defined Constitutions successfully and effectively. I am deeply convinced of that. I would also like to thank all of you for your carelessness, for your serious work on the bill. I also want to take this moment to welcome you to all the New Year's and Christmas holidays, but after a day and a half, the New Year begins in an old style, but we still have it as the New Year. Don't let this New Year get to any of you. Thank you all. Have a good one. I hereby announce the conclusion of the morning session and the conclusion of the second session of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you all, thank you.
