ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, members of the media! I want to inform our voters, the radio audience, that the "Council" system is working, not because those who captured it have released the shield have taken other measures, and today we have the opportunity to work and we will work. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register who wants it. [[10:01:10]] Registered -359 There were 359 national deputies registered in the hall, because I can see that not all of them have been able to insert cards. And, dear fellows, if you'll excuse the inconvenience, only the right board will work. What's in the Cabinet's bed is still left-handed. But I think we can handle one thing. I think if you don't mind if we don't take breaks now, don't ask for words for ads, I think we'll do the right thing if we do. We'll do the right thing if we let each faction speak now. I'd like the factions to sign up for the performance. We'll give you three minutes to express the pain of the night. Please log in. Four factions have been recorded, so far I do not see our Ukraine. Will they be performing? It will be, Koval will be. Then please, Tkachenko conveys the word of Dove Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please get ready for Yavorowski's rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I think it's very good that today the whole country can monitor what is happening in Parliament. Their logic was clear and clear: the presidential orange forces were counting on a crisis, a crisis that had not occurred, and these efforts were not rectified. According to scenarios written outside Ukraine, they need to create an artificial crisis today. I think that to date, most voters have come to realize that neither the real state of the population nor the tariffs are of interest to these politicians, they're only interested in the authorities, and to this power they're willing to go through the bones, on the heads of their fellow citizens. [[I take politics into my own hands.]] These dangerous processes in the state show that the political crisis, which is clear, normal for any country, the President's environment is trying to turn into a constitutional crisis, which is already a crime, i.e. to resist and block the actions of branches of power. I think they've come to a great understanding: time is running out. If they fail to make this coup today, the authorities will no longer receive the same power as they have gotten rid of voter support. The actions that are taking place today in the Supreme Council cannot be qualified otherwise as an attempt at a coup d'état. I think that the law enforcement authorities should come to a conclusion, say that they should give a public assessment of what is going on in Parliament. As for the parliamentary majority of the government, we have to do the budget, do the tasks that the majority are facing, and I think that as of today and the initiative that the Communist Party of Ukraine has taken on the abolition of office, the President's Institute as an institution that brings confrontation to society, becomes urgent. Let's solve this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Vladimir Yavorowski, faction. From where, Volodymyr Alexanderovich? Please, the microphone. Follow him from the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u4	On behalf of our faction, Alexander Turchinov, the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko, ” will speak. Adam Ivanovich, we are ready to change the shield to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u5	Don't joke. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! We think we can say a lot, we can sing a lot of beautiful songs -- what we hear from the government, what we hear from the anti-crisis coalition. But there can only be one criterion: it is a matter that Parliament is doing, and so far Parliament is not doing its job. The law on tariff cuts has not yet been adopted. The Law on Budget Change, which will ensure that pensions and salaries are increased, is not adopted. That's why we're talking to the anti-crisis coalition. Enough talking. You may have only one test of the sincerity of your words and we can do that now, there is every possibility and every reason to vote for the legislative acts, especially for the one that was agreed upon yesterday at the Conciliation Council. And blasphemy is that even after the agreed bill was not included in the agenda today. This is your face. This is your integrity. Because you can talk, but you can't do it. You can't honestly vote and protect citizens from your own vanity in the tariff area, from abuse of them when they're unable to pay their wages and pensions simply to survive. Therefore, the faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko” insists that the bill on tariff reductions and on ensuring the normal existence of the municipal sphere should be considered immediately. The Yulia Timoshenko faction insists on an immediate review of the Budget Change Act, which will ensure at least a minimal increase in pensions and salaries so that people can exist under valid conditions. Until these decisions are made, the Supreme Council will not work properly. Next question. Dear colleagues, I think everyone here understands: both the journalists who observe these events, and our citizens who watch how the Supreme Council works, they understand that blocking is not an effective scheme of work. So believe me, in the near future, we are implementing the most effective system that will make you work as a legislative body that will force you to adopt the laws that society requires of you. Period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u6	From the faction of the Party of Regions, please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Prepare for the socialists of Mendus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u7	Statement by the MP of the Party of the Regions. Dear compatriots, the faction of the Party of the Regions claims that the Ukrainian State’s destruction scenario has begun to be implemented, and opposition factions have been made in Parliament. Political stability and economic development in the queue are trying to destroy. To this end the opposition has long been running an anti-government campaign yesterday, a new phase in the destabilisation scenario has been the planned destructive anti-parliamentary action. On February 21, those forces who wanted to call themselves parliamentary opposition reclassified themselves as ordinary bullies and bandits. They are convinced that the evaluation of their actions by law enforcement agencies will be swift and appropriate. Deputity should not serve as a cover for bullying, blackmail, and outright anti - Ukrainian action. Dear voters, they're trying to trick you. Once again, the opposition uses populist slogans for its own return to power. However, economic development, peace, and peace in the state are needed today by loving deputies. Their real goal is to break all political agreements, dissolve the Supreme Council, and rematch the political system. What this will cost the country, we remember: the war of ambitions, the mutual political destruction and the economic downturn on this background, the external political isolation of Ukraine. All of this has already been done, and the effects of this orange chaos are being analyzed by the Antichrist Coalition and the Cabinet of Ministers today. The parliamentary majority and the government of Viktor Yanukovic are taking real steps to solve the uncomplicated problems they have left behind. The working group of parliament prepared a harmonized version of housing-communal bills, which were urged by the opposition to raise minimum wages and pensions, the decision was adopted by Parliament as early as December 2006. And yesterday, the government confirmed its intentions to raise the minimum wage and pension rate from April 1, 2007, even more so than the President's proposals. These are the principles of the position that have been achieved at the level of the Government, the Parliament and the President of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of Regions calls on President Viktor Yushchenka of Ukraine to exercise political will, to turn the activities of his field associates into legal space, to demonstrate his own adequate, consistent and constructive position as the guarantor of the Constitution, which is so necessary today for Ukraine. Mr. President, distinguished colleagues who prefer terrorist activity rather than parliamentary work, we refer to you. The path of political blackmail, bullying, and adventure does not lead to the prosperity and well - being of its own people. If you choose to be destructive and destabilized, you have to realize that you're not just stopping development, you're reducing Ukraine, and you're robbing your own people of the future. We are convinced that the vast majority of Parliament's MPs are aware of what is happening and do not trade their own country for individual ambitions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u8	Thank you. Jaroslav Mendoza, a faction of socialists. Get Kowalja ready for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u9	Respectable citizens, the situation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine draws the attention of all Ukrainian societies, international observers. In many democratic countries, opposition uses different methods of political conviction to establish its position. But there is no example that the struggle for the rights of citizens goes down to normal bullying. In an attempt to make cheap political advertising, a group of Ukrainian national deputies seized one of the parliamentary facilities. We will not judge this fact of a low not only political but also human culture. This has nothing to do with opposition. Because opposition involves a civilized dialogue between the people’s representatives in the highest legislative body. Today, in the hope of getting on a TV screen, nearby people break the shield, and tomorrow they can start beating windows, stealing cell phones, and so forth. Therefore, the most plausible conclusions about bullies should be made by the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council and the competent authorities. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will support the decision of the committee of profile, even when it comes to depriving MPs of immunity. It is important to point out to all Ukrainian citizens that another attempt to disrupt the session is aimed at blocking the work of the entire state apparatus. What are some of the purposes behind this? Obviously bring the greatest chaos into the country’s life. Realizing that the effective work of the government coalition in the Supreme Council is hurting the ambitions and ratings of some political adventurers, they try to turn government work into a primitive show. The hooligan actions of some members of the factions of Block Tymoshenko have disrupted the adoption of important social and economic bills that cause a tremendous economic downturn every day. In terms of the people's interests, these politicians have actually tried to paralyze the work of all public authorities, and this action is going to damage not only the government and parliament -- it's a hit on the incomes, on every Ukrainian citizen's wallet. Ukrainian President Yushchenko submitted to Parliament nominations for foreign minister and head of the Security Service. For three months these most important state institutions have been without leadership. What causes this chaos is not to be explained. That's why we're saying that the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be broken down, the government will be destroyed, and all the government will not succeed. The session of the country's parliament will continue normally. The best answer to political provocations will be an accelerated consideration of the primary bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u10	Thank you, Jaroslav Petrovich. Viacheslav Koval from "Our Ukraine". From the site or from the rostrum? From where? Please turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u11	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. The “Our Ukraine” faction calls attention and demands that the crisis coalition, which now governs the Ukrainian state, the crisis majority, begin to work primarily on the execution of its electoral programmes. As you went to the elections, you promised that we would be better off living with you today. People have already experienced the sweetness of your promises, the real work of yours. Public tariffs have risen, citizens have no idea what to pay for, and how to pay heat, how to get money for water, how to reduce people's real income, how not to raise their wages. The State Budget Act eliminated all social programs. Therefore, the “Our Ukraine” faction, taking part with the BUT faction in those demands, requires that you first consider those issues that improve people's lives. There are now no more important issues in the state as to how to deal with the minimum wage, how to make changes to the State budget of Ukraine, how to fulfil the responsibility that the Supreme Council should carry out, how to consider the bills that the President of Ukraine has introduced on improving and increasing the minimum wage. There is no other problem in the state as the country’s highest sole legislative body has to deal with the regulation of municipal tariffs. Not every local council can act as God does, there must be an organ coordinating it. And all over the world, this is coordinated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. If the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is unable to perform its functions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should intervene, the Supreme Council of Ukraine should deal with it and make a decision. Therefore, dear colleagues, we demand to ask these questions, consider them, question them, and none of the factions of “Our Ukraine” or the faction “Timoshenko Block” will continue to block the rostrum. I want to remind the anti-crisis coalition, in the 30 seconds I have left, August of that year, when an anti-crisis coalition that was not yet created blocked the Council system. So, first of all, when you pay attention to the actions of real opposition, remember your actions in August 2005, 2006, remember your election promises and let's work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u12	Thank you. Let's, dear fellows, support the final words and start working. And let's do it this way. Once again, I would like to draw attention to those who hear us, please tell the truth, not to be distorted. On the Conciliation Council yesterday, a working group was set up to produce the only piece of legislation agreed upon. No decision was taken by the Conciliation Council except for the creation of a working group, and we gave them the commission to go to work. At the time the working group went to work, we came to the session room and you saw what kind of surprise we were getting prepared by those who created this working group and seemed to want to work. This is one moment. The other one. Today, please take a look in the agenda. In daily gratitude today stands the bill number 2197, which was, as it were, in the weekly agenda for today, that we are looking at it. It's also a bill by my colleague Dryhog on prices and pricing in the housing and utility sphere. Bill 3069 we've discussed with you, the decision he didn't get backing up, we're going to consider another bill today on the same subject, and you and I are going to make a decision that we're going to make, that's what we're going to do, and that's what we're going to do. I mean, to blame for not looking at the Supreme Council of Bills doesn't have to. The bills, I repeat, and the BUT bill has been reviewed twice, the second time the Rules have been violated, and today there will be another bill on the same subject to consider and we will clarify the situation, who really is in favour of bringing the system into line with the tariffs, and who wants to excite society. It's different. I'm talking to journalists. Please take a look at Project 3069. If you find a decision to lower tariffs there, then you will confirm that someone is really fighting for tariff cuts. There are different procedures. I mean, today we're going to do it this way. As far as tariffs are concerned, tariffs will be considered today. As for the changes to the State Budget, I can inform you. First. Yesterday you must have heard the government's statements, today you've heard the statements of the factions, and I have to tell you that there's an agreement. I spoke to the Cabinet of Ministers yesterday. We agreed that in the next plenary week, the Cabinet of Ministers would come up with proposals for changes to the 2007 State Budget. And in the next plenary week, we're going to be looking at these changes, including, of course, the changes that the President and the other deputies have made, and we're going to be able to determine by voting. Here's the situation. Now two factions are asking for a break of 30 minutes. It's their right. They can rest for a while. Break to 10.55 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u13	Please let those who want to sit down; let those who are accustomed to work in a different way stand still. Please take one and a half minutes from the factions. A Turk. Then from “Our Ukraine ” for one and a half minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u14	Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, during the break, the anti - crisis coalition did not want to give serious consideration to the priority consideration of legislative acts related to tariff cuts and increases in minimum wages and pensions, or changes to the budget. In this regard, we believe that the Supreme Council will continue to work in such a shameful, disasterous regime. That's the first one. The second question. We demand that serious personnel issues today cannot be addressed, all personnel matters removed. In the event that this decision is not taken, our faction will not take part in the vote, because all these votes are, excuse me, blasphemy, no priority issues are resolved, abnormally, ineffectively, shamefully, the Supreme Council works. [[I think the faction of "Our Ukraine," they're about to come forward.]] That's why, dear colleagues. We offer calmly, without emotion, now to gather the Conciliation Council and still to transfer the work of the Supreme Council to normal mode. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u15	Please, Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! Mikola Onichuk, “Our Ukraine” faction. Today, in the order of the day session, as you know, an anticipated consideration of personnel issues, such as the appointment of a foreign minister and head of the Ukrainian Security Service. These are quite visible figures in the system of government and, in our view, are unacceptable and inappropriate in the conditions that have arisen today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine to deal with similar issues. We believe that the solution to this type of human resources proposal should be made on the basis of consensus of Parliament, and once the offer of the BUT faction has been announced, we support it, as well as our position on the need to convene a consensus council that would find mechanisms and ways to normalize the situation in Parliament so that Ukrainian parliamentaryism is not discredited. We are convinced that there are no options, there are no intelligent options in such behavior, and there are no attempts to move around and impose a scenario of their own, in fact, that will lead to nothing. There will be no winners in the confrontation, but we, as you know, will be the Ukrainian people, who have actually chosen us with you for a different purpose and to perform other functions. My fellow Members, once again, I stress that if an attempt is made to vote on these proposals, the faction "Our Ukraine" will not participate in the discussion, in the reports where the faction is concerned, the issues of order today. I would like to stress again, we'd like to spend some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Let us be wiser and calmer and more truthful. The consensus does not want those who call on it – first. Second, those to whom you appeal do not interrupt the session. It's all up to those who make proposals about how the Supreme Council works, and it's your fault why it works like that. So we're going to follow up on the plan of consideration, and we're going to look at it. I'm not ruling out, I'm saying again, I'm not ruling out that after considering the personnel issues, the personnel issues, we have, you see, there are about a dozen of them there, the decisions to vote on what we talked about, but we haven't made any decisions yet. We can come back with you after the break to consider what we're talking about, speed up the bill on prices and tariffs. He's standing a little far away from us. If there is the will of the House, we will vote, we will move it closer, and we can start to consider this bill early, and we can make a decision. What I've already said about the changes to the State Budget. In the next plenary week, we will definitely consider the full scope of these changes. So let's work, and I'm sure by the end of the day, we'll be on our way to a normal work rhythm and everyone will be happy with the walls of Parliament. Or the vast majority. Draft Resolution on the Cessation of the National Deputy of Ukraine Slauti V.A. 3208. Reported to the head of the committee, Alexander Andriyovich Kozub. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u18	Dear Chairman! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee considered at its meeting on February 20th, a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy Slauti Viktor Andriyovich on the appointment of his Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. On the basis of article 81, part 2, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, the Committee has decided to support the application and has put in place an appropriate draft decree on the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Slauti Viktor Andriyovich. [[Project No. 3208]] We offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u19	Thank you. I think I understand the situation. First of all, thank you. Is there a question? Knazevitch, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u20	I have a question for you. Did you file an application for the appointment of a national MP, Bondik, who was appointed prime minister of justice? I hope he's in such a responsible legal position. Well, it's rude to violate the rules of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u21	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u22	I'm not aware of this application at this time. We're looking at the question of completing the powers of Slauta Viktor Andriovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u23	Well, I can help with the answer. Since I'm writing down all the applications right now, there's not been any such application yet, but I'm also using the opportunity, and I think he'll hear us, and I'm convinced that next plenary week we'll be considering Bondik's application. I don't think there's gonna be a problem here, he knows we have to do it and he does it. No other questions? Let's vote then. I'm putting to the vote an order to suspend the mandate of Ukraine's Slauti V.A. People's Deputies. 3208. Please vote. [[11:02:16]] For 234 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's thank Victor Andryovich for being a very productive, very initiativeful colleague of ours, and we wish that he would do his best in the position of Vice Prime Minister in the same sphere. The draft Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the Election of Heads, First Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization" is under consideration. Alexander Andriyovich Kozub, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u24	Honourable National Deputies, the committee at its meeting on February 20, this year, reviewed the application made by National Deputy Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyovna, a member of the Party of the Region’s Deputies, to elect her as First Deputy to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for freedom of speech and information by exempting her from the duties of a member of the Committee. According to part seven of article 78 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the office of the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information is part of the Party of the Regions. Taking into account the requirements of part seven of the seventh article of the Ukrainian Act on Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and part seven of article 78 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee adopted a decision: to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Bondarenko and to submit a corresponding draft order to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 3209. We propose to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u25	Thank you. I want to add that there's a faction here, apart from the statement. Any questions? None. I am voting for the ruling number 3209: to elect Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, Ukrainian National Deputy from the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions, the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information, freeing her from the duties of a member of this committee. Please vote. [[11:04:54]] For 244 It's been decided. Welcome to Helen Anatolyevna. Please, next project.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u26	At its meeting on February 20th this year, the Committee considered a statement by the Ukrainian National MP, Petriq Petr Pantelemmonović, a member of the Party of the Regions' MP for election as a member of the Committee on Legislative Protection. The calculated quota for the Party’s parliamentary faction is up to 20, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of law enforcement operates from this faction of 5 Ukrainian national deputies. So the quota is not fully used. The committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian national deputy Petrik and to submit a corresponding draft regulation No. 3210 for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u27	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Then I put to the vote a decree of number 3210 to elect Peter Pantelemonovich, the Ukrainian National Deputy, a faction of the Party of the Regions as a member of the Supreme Council Committee on Law Enforcement. Please vote. [[11:06:34]] For 241 Decision taken. Thank you. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u28	At its meeting on February 20, this year, a draft decree was botched. Registration number 3150, submitted by Ukrainian national deputies Krilem, Skutkak, to the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The draft Decision proposes to select the Ukrainian national deputy Horoshkevaić Alexandr Sergiyyovich, a member of the deputy faction of the "Our Ukraine" bloc, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issues of fuel and energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security, exempting a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council from the responsibility of environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. The calculated quota for our Ukrainian deputy faction at the Supreme Council Committee of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security is not fully used. In connection with this committee, it has been decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the proposed decision be supported. Support is offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u29	Is there a question for the reporter? None. I put to the vote the order number 3150 to choose Horoshevitch Alexander Sergiyyovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, Our Ukraine faction, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of fuel and energy, nuclear policy and nuclear security, releasing a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the issue of environmental policy, environmental exploitation and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:08:29]] For-174 The factions. Region Party – 135, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 4, Our Ukraine – 3, Socialists – 29, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 3. The decision is not taken. Yes, everyone, Alexander Andriyovich? Yes, thank you. Please have a seat. The appointment of a foreign minister is under consideration. Dear colleagues, let's probably do this: we will allow a representative authorized by the President to present the President, in this case a designated representative of the President of Ukraine at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Zvaric Roman Mikhajlovich, to be asked, if there are questions to him, and then we will probably listen to the head of the committee. Then we'll give the candidate a chance and then we'll see. If there are questions, of course, there will be questions, if there is a need to discuss them, we will discuss them. So please, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, Representative of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council. Please. How long have you been, Roman Mikhailovich, three minutes? Roman Mikhailovich, Roman Mikhailovich, three minutes is enough? Yes, please, three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u30	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, Ukrainian National Deputies, President of Ukraine in accordance with article 106, paragraph 10, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and article 114, part 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine, introduced the application for the appointment of Vladimir Ogryzka as Minister of Foreign Affairs to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that according to article 106, part 1, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President of Ukraine is exercising exclusive competence in this area, since this constitutional position behind the President retains the power to exercise leadership over the external political activities of the State. Appropriately, for the President to be able to exercise his direct constitutional powers, of course, he would have had the opportunity to do so through the Chief Agent in this area. In view of the above, please support the submission by the President of Ukraine of the appointment of Vladimir Ogryzka as Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u31	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Will there be questions? No questions to Roman Mikhailovich? Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich. Please, committee positions, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u32	The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meeting, held on 21 February 2007, reviewed the introduction by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of the submission of the appointment of W. Ogreska by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, as well as additional materials containing information on the submission of the candidature. During the discussion, members of the committee had the opportunity to ask questions to the candidate present and to receive answers to them. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider, in plenary session, the submission by the President of Ukraine of the appointment of the U.S. Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u33	Yes. Will there be questions for the committee head? None. Yes, thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich. I'd like to go to Shibk. Vitaly Yakovic, your committee has considered these proposals. Yes, please, Vitali Jakovitch Šibko, please, the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u34	Dear colleagues! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Thank you for the opportunity to express the word that will be, in the thought expressed at the committee meeting. Within the limits of his competence under the Constitution and the "On the Status of Committees" Act, the Supreme Council of the Ukraine of the Frost of February 5th of this year, on February 7th, at its meeting, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Foreign Affairs considered the submission by the President of Ukraine of the Yuschenk concerning the appointment of Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogryzka as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. There were 12 members of the 17. Virtually all members of the committee, representatives of almost all the political forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, expressed positive comments on the business and human qualities of Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogryzka. However, members of the committee, representatives of the Crnowil Party of the Regions, Kojara, noted that the recommendations regarding the appointment or no appointment of the Ogrezka to the post were the prerogative of the deputy factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and made an offer to refrain from such a decision in order to deal with it in factions. That's what the committee's all about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u35	Thank you. And a committee of diplomats to make diplomatic decisions. Yes, please, I invite you to the rostrum of Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogryzka. Please. Let us be counseled, fellow believers, to be able to speak or to answer questions immediately. How can we do that? No, no. So far, I'm talking about whether or not we're going to do this. Can Vladimir Stanislavovich speak and answer the question, or can he just answer the questions? Answers to questions. Okay. Then please sign up for the questions. Anyone who wants to ask a question, please press the button. Yeah, let's take 15 minutes, maybe 9 will all make it. Mikola Kulczynski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u36	Of course, Ukraine is in an extremely difficult position, with its own borders near a powerful neighbour who does not want to give up imperial ambitions. But nevertheless, we want and obviously want to have a friendly, mutually beneficial relationship. As for the strategic path of Ukraine, it is a strategic path in nature towards the European Union. I'd like to ask. How can you, under all these circumstances, conduct our foreign policy?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u37	Thank you, Mr. Culchinsky. It seems to me that any candidate for a foreign minister, honourable national MPs, must first and foremost be governed by those laws that have been passed by the higher legislative body of our state. We must be guided by the Basic Law, our Constitution, we must be guided by all those laws that govern foreign policy. There are several such laws. And one of them, I'm referring to the Ukrainian Security Principles Act, is what our foreign policy priorities are defined -- the introduction to the European Union, the acquisition of NATO membership in the development of strategic partnerships with the Russian Federation, as well as with other countries around Ukraine, and with which we develop relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u38	Let me finish. But, Volodymyr Stanislavovich, we have answers in a minute, so please take a look. Complete your opinion, continue what you want to say, but then take a good look.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u39	Thank you. Thus, the distinguished national deputies, the course determined, must be implemented. And if we support the President's proposal, we'll be in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs running this line continuously. So for developing relations with the Russian Federation, we're speaking and speaking. You know, in recent years, there has been a very effective mechanism for such cooperation, but it has to be based on clear principles and principles of international law: equality, mutual benefit and perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u40	Please, Danieline, P.O.P.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u41	Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party. Please pass the word to Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u42	Jaroslav Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u43	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Volodymyr Stanislavovich! A week ago, from the Supreme Council rostrum, I asked the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to provide the Supreme Council with comprehensive information on the situation with our fellow national deputy, Peter Alexiyovich Prashenk regarding his non-admission to the territory of the Russian Federation. I'd like to get an answer from you, did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deal with this issue, and what could you say today to the people's deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u44	Thank you, Sir Jaroslav. Yesterday I signed a letter of reply to your parliamentary inquiry informing you of the situation that has arisen and the circumstances that have taken place at the airport of St. Petersburg. Appropriate diplomatic action has been taken in this regard. You know, on the second day after this incident, Ukraine's Ministry of Foreign Affairs made a note of the Russian Federation's Ministry of Foreign Affairs requesting an explanation of this incident and the reasons why a bilateral Ukrainian-Russian Consular Convention had been violated, because you know that our Consul-General has not been given the opportunity to communicate with National Deputy Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko. We didn't get an answer to that official question today, it was just a press release.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u45	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u46	But on February 27th, on Tuesday, while I was in Moscow on the next round of negotiations on the Black Sea fleet, I will certainly put this issue again before the leadership of the Russian Federation's Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u47	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u48	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Vladimir Stanislavovich, I can honestly say that you are, in my opinion, a high-level professional because you are a professionally trained man and have great experience to lead this ministry. If it were not for your frank one polar political engagement, you could be welcomed to this office today. I have two questions. Tell us, please, our faction never expected to meet you, which is why I'm asking you a question here right now. And the second question is, please tell me, do you have a great deal of work experience, whether you're satisfied with today's role or with today's state of affairs in the field of foreign affairs in protecting the external economic interests of our giants in the Ukrainian industry? I mean, first of all, arms exporters, metallurgy, machine-building. Unfortunately, in recent years these exporters have been deprived of help and support at least our basic officials abroad. Two short questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear Mr. Suhi, I've come to all the meetings where I've been invited. I was sitting in two factions where I was invited -- a socialist faction and a faction called Julia Timoshenko. I was on committees where I was invited. I had a conversation with all the national deputies who wanted to hear my answer. So I was ready and ready to take part in the discussion. Moreover, as far as I know, the President's distinguished representative in the Supreme Council has repeatedly asked the faction of the regions to organize such a meeting. Unfortunately, it didn't happen, but it wasn't my fault, Mr. Dry. Regarding the protection of exporters. This is one of the most important directions of our work. The only thing you can think of when you mention arms exports is that we have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u50	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u51	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. It is common knowledge that a binding element of inter-State relations is mutual benefit, you have just said that. That's unquestionable. Then it seems strange to me that your next statement that you believe Ukraine's accession to NATO is Ukraine's prospect, is a necessity for Ukraine, and you claim that a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation needs to be developed. What a mutual benefit for Ukraine in joining NATO if we know what political, economic and negative consequences will be for Ukraine. How can it be said that this is beneficial for the Russian Federation, because Ukraine's accession to NATO is on Ukraine's territory the establishment of bases, joint exercises and the strengthening of the aggressive bloc, which today directly opposes the Russian Federation? Explain your strange logic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u52	You know, logic is not surprising because the Russian Federation, in its cooperation with NATO, went a little further than Ukraine. That's why we need to talk here, our honourable colleagues, about protecting our national interests, and about finding those forms of Ukraine's participation in the security systems that best suit Ukraine's security. What is more, it is Parliament that has approved the law that I have already mentioned, where it is clearly and clearly stated that our strategic directions are exactly three: the accession to the European Union, NATO and the development of strategic relations with the Russian Federation. No one's going against it, no one's going to deny it, because it's our most traditional strategic partner. And let's not look for ways to contrast things that can actually be complementary. Here's the problem. And diplomacy has to work in such a way as to find the best way for our Ukrainian national interests: to ensure our security, our economic prosperity, and so on. Here's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u53	Yuri Zubko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Michael Danilino.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u55	Mikola Danielne, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u56	Nikolai Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party, city of Kiev. Three months ago at an inter-parliamentary meeting with the Russian delegation to which I was a member, you did not provide very correct data from the Ukrainian side on language issues in the Ukrainian language in Russia. For virtually five minutes, Slice refuted the data. You are talking about a strategic partnership with the Russian Federation. And tell me, how justified is such bias on your part or on the part of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u57	Thank you, Mr. Danielen. There is no contradictory and biased approach to this issue, and once again there is a need to implement the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly and clearly sets out the status of the Ukrainian language as a national language. Regarding our interaction with the Russian Federation, if you were present at this meeting, you remember what I said and quoted the position of our bilateral agreement between the Russian Federation and Ukraine, but that cooperation takes place on a parital basis. Unfortunately, today we cannot say that such parity takes place. That's why let's do it. Dear colleagues, to think about how we are not strained by our relationship, but at the same time to do our utmost to ensure that the interests of the Ukrainians in Russia are guaranteed no less than those of the Russian citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u58	Omelian Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u59	I'd like a word with the Pigeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u60	Please, Blue Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u61	Mr. Ogrisco, well, progress on the face. You don't need an interpreter anymore to answer our fellow MPs' questions, of course, that's a plus. But I wanted to ask you about someone else. You've been in charge of the M.I.A. long enough, and you've been in a bad position there. During this time, the ILO has practically failed European development, the foreign policy vector, but has not achieved results. At the same time, it was wise to break down, zero relations with the Russian Federation and the CIS countries. Tell me, please, is it really possible that the time has come for other people who are truly capable of demonstrating their professionalism and uninvolvedness?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u62	Thank you, Mr. People's Deputy! I'm just going to try to find the number of visits quickly. Well, here we go, let's go from the economy. As far as the Russian Federation is concerned, may I? Look, the trade in 2005 was $20.4 billion in mutual trade, and in 2006 it was already 23.4. The failure is complete. The increase is 14%. Let's look at the contacts at the highest level between Ukraine and Russia. In 2005, the Russian Federation was visited by the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, three times, the Prime Minister, twice, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, once. In 2006, the Prime Minister, four times, the Head of the Supreme Council, once, once. So talk about Ukraine's failure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u63	Let me finish. Dear colleagues, there are two left. Come on, let's have Samylik and Knyazevitch put in, so everyone who signed up now. You don't? Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u64	Thank you. I want to ask you the next question. The foreign minister's position is proposed by the president. But I would like to stress to you and to other applicants that this position is not privatized by the President, it's a state office, and that means you're joining a team led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Do you feel that way? Next, your predecessor's behavior has caused great damage to the international image of our nation. And don't you think that ex-Minister Tarasyuk's actions, who was released from office by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and continued to fight throughout the globe, fall under the Criminal Code and are of an anti-constitutional nature? And the other thing that you can give is that we've allowed a visa-free entry to virtually all countries to zero all the consulates in our country. The rich, you know, the damage is so huge. And why isn't anyone opening the door that you're all talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Samolik. I'll start with the last one. We did cancel visas for the countries of the European Union and the United States. At this point, we've suffered direct consular losses of $10 million. At the same time, in the first year when such visas were cancelled, more than two and a half million tourists left for Ukraine. Statistics show that every day a tourist spends $106 here in Ukraine. You multiply that amount, you're going to get about 300 million dollars. Let's compare 10 to 300. Is it convenient for the State or not? So the second part of that question is what I was talking about, answering Mr. Dove's question. The point is that by the end of July we will have signed an agreement with the European Union on a simplified procedure for granting visas to our Ukrainian citizens. By the end of the year, it will have become effective. This will be our first answer to the question of visa cancellation, as it were. Next. I've already said that if I support my candidacy, I will act exclusively on the basis of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u66	Let me finish. Please, Vladimir Stanislavovich. Knazevitch. No intention of asking? Ruslan, do you have a wish? Please, Knyazevich, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u67	Dear, may I, Vladimir Stanislavovich, as we have heard today the questions of our distinguished colleagues, as well as in fact the statements made by the Prime Minister in the press personally, and the leaders of the coalition, the greatest warning of your candidacy, is that round table, which was held at the hands of the parliamentarians of the Russian Federation, in which you, acting as deputy minister, actually refused to violate the Constitution of Ukraine and spoke in national language. Maybe you'll clarify this situation in more detail and take that warning off the coalition, they'll vote for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u68	Thank you, Mr. Knyazevich. Well, if that's so interesting, I'll just remind you of the situation. Indeed, I was invited, as the first deputy minister, to participate in a conference organized by the Institute of SND. And they said I could go there, actually, how comfortable I'd be. I am comfortable speaking in Ukrainian in my native language. At the same time, some of the colleagues present who came from the Russian Federation began, but it wasn't Mr. Zatulin, if you mean it, began in quite such a rude and incorrect form to require me not to speak to myself at home in Ukrainian. You know, when I come to mine, I mean, Russian colleagues to Moscow to negotiate, never ask them to speak and speak to me in Ukrainian, I accept their rules, the rules of the game, because I respect them as a host country that accepts a guest. Likewise, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u69	Yes, thank you, Vladimir Stanislavovich. Have a seat, please. Is there a desire to speak? Yes. Yes, who wants to participate in the faction discussion, please sign up. Yes, who else from the deputies independently to the faction, please record.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u70	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Boldyrev. Dear Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u71	Wait. I didn't give you my word. I didn't give you my word. They were right next to me. Yeah, five people. Then let's talk for 15 minutes. Please, Jaroslav Kenzier, dove prepare. Kenzir's passing it on, that's how I got it, Widow. Please, Hennaday Josephovich. You're a widower. Please, Hennaday Josephovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, first of all, wanted to thank you for trying to restore the proper functioning of the Supreme Council. We're all interested in having the Supreme Council serve the interests of the Ukrainian people, not the clan-oligaric interests. That's the first one. The other one. I've known the bite since I was a diplomat. With me he went all the way from the attaché to the responsibilities of deputy minister in charge of the duties of minister. It is a person, indeed, a professional of Ukrainian independent diplomacy; a person who unreservedly stands for the protection of national interests, first of all his Ukrainian state, not the Russian state; a man who is very balanced. They don't have to hang a label for him or anyone else that he has in his own country at an international or some conference speaking in a national language. Let's give up this mentality, the Ukrainian mentality of small value. Let us not forget that today a young generation comes to power and will form, indeed, a Ukrainian anti - elite that will defend the interests of the Ukrainian State. You don't like Ogrezko because today he's thinking about Kiev's interests, Ukraine's interests, not Moscow's interests. That's the difference. And whatever the argument is, you're going to find a counter argument because it doesn't crawl in front of our big neighbor. The same charges that were against him. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the only organization in the state that really stands on the basis of the protection of national interests. With Russia, it is a strategic partner, but who among you today is talking about continuing a friendship agreement, cooperation, I emphasize, a partnership with Russia that ends, nobody talks about it. Which one of you condemned yesterday's disgraceful statement by Mayor Luzkov that they were tearing up Ukraine. You're afraid to say the word in defense of our nation, no one has ever stood up for it! I think that Ogreska's candidacy is modern Ukrainian diplomacy. I'm not ashamed when he's dating either Condolina Rice or the Russian Foreign Minister. And I'm proud to have such diplomats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u73	Alexander Dove, Communist faction. To prepare, Tarasov passes on to Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u74	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! First of all, at a conference that is here in the language of so many different speculations. It's not the language Mr. Ogrisco spoke, it's completely different. The thing is, Mr. Ogrezko, when he was told that the Russian participants did not understand what he was saying, he told them that you thought of the Ukrainian language as a scab, so you should understand that. If he is a professional diplomat, a professional diplomat cannot afford such accidents. To put it this way, Mr. Ogrizko, when you are here in Ukraine with representatives of Azerbaijan, with representatives of Georgia, with representatives of Moldova, you are communicating with them in Russian for some reason. You don't object. But when you're talking to the Russians, you're kind of demonstrative, and you're protesting. At least double standards. But that's not what I wanted to say. In answer to my question, Mr. Ogryzko has brought here the number of visits that have been made to Europe or Russia and so on. But since then, the number of visits has been an indicator of effectiveness. What about the result of the President's soldiers and the result? Russia's high prices for gas. By the way, it's on your conscience, your MIDA. You're going to ask those people who are abroad on earnings, whether they get the support they're supposed to receive from the IPAs in the consulates. They don't. You're going to ask the Ukrainian business, does it get support from the IIA to take over Western markets, to move our technologies there? He doesn't get it. Today you have destroyed in foreign policy everything you could destroy. So step aside, allow yourself to truly be shown to other politicians, other professionals, who are certainly in our system. And the next moment. There is no need to speculate on the topic “Protection of national interests”. We have all witnessed, when from Western States, neighbouring Poland made statements by politicians, politicians in force, which are a direct intervention in our internal affairs. Even the latest statements made by some United States senators. Where's your indignation voice? Why do you not resent these policies when they interfere with our affairs? And I'll tell you because these are your masters, and you're taking them in. That's why you can't react to things like this. That's why Mr. Ogreske's claim, I think, would be a big mistake. And if we vote for this decision today, we will have to return to this issue less than six months later and make a similar decision that we have already taken on Tarasyuk. I therefore propose that the President be invited to propose a truly compromise, truly balanced candidature that will find support in the sessional room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u75	Yuri Baldirev. Prepare the Lycan Lion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u76	Bolderev, the "Regions" faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, I was also a participant in that unfortunate conference that was held here in Kiev at the initiative of the CIS Institute. And I also attended a boring episode. Unfortunately, the episode was, in general, of little content. First of all, the lines that came out of the hall when Mr. Ogryzko started speaking. They did not sound from the officials of the Russian Federation, they spoke from a journalist who said only that he did not understand Ukrainian and therefore expected Ogrizko to speak Russian. Here's the actual content of this episode. And Mr. Ogrezko, with persistence worthy of better application, began to answer the journalist in such a tone as to create confusion among all the participants in the conference. I mean, he just showed a complete lack of professionalism. He had to react like a large figure with a sense of humor to the performance of a Russian journalist, i.e. he had just shown that he was not a diplomat, but that he was just a person with a set of inadequacies, who was so harsh and unjustifiably responsive to the journalist's message. That's what this is about. Furthermore, it would be interesting to know why the ILO, under his leadership, which he is currently leading, has sent a note of protest by the Russian Federation on the day that Ukraine's MID opposes the opening of a Moscow cultural centre in the town of Sevastopol. What a threat the Moscow cultural centre in Sevastopol poses to our country would like to know. I therefore certainly agree with the previous speaker that this is a very unfortunate candidate for the post of Minister for Foreign Affairs of our country. And we hope that our country's President, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, will find another person who will not have the negative qualities that Mr. Ogryzko displayed in the above-mentioned episodes and in his official activities when he signed this meaningless note by the MlD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u77	Leukya Lukyanenko, fraction of BUT, please. It's Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u78	Lukyanenko, the faction of Julia Timoshenko Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to address that part of our Supreme Council, which challenges the professionalism of our candidate for foreign minister. I would now like to address the Pigeon, who spoke from this rostrum -- the highest rostrum in Ukraine -- in Russian. He's from Western Ukraine, where in principle Ukrainian is the normal language, they haven't ruined the population in 340 years of occupation, and he speaks Russian here, so he's showing disrespect for Ukraine and Ukrainian. I'd like to address you from the point of view of, you know, the very professional work of diplomats, including the foreign minister. You've had to go abroad alone and negotiate with different representatives of other delegations, diplomats and non-graduates. When you appear abroad, you are viewed as a representative of a new great state, Ukraine-State. And when you say you represent Ukraine, you're expected to speak in English, to speak in terms of protecting Ukrainian national interests and so on. I myself worked for two years as Ambassador of Ukraine, Ambassador of Ukraine to Canada, I have spent dozens, if not hundreds, of meetings with various economic delegations, politicians and so forth abroad. And the very atmosphere you're in, it gives you the feeling that you're representing Ukraine, you're representing the state. And so it's strange if you don't speak English, it's a different language. Well, of course, in Canada it was Canadian, English, and Ukrainian. And working at that level requires developing a sense of national pride. It would be strange, therefore, if the President had offered to serve as foreign minister a person who had no sense of national pride, who automatically switched to the language of the person who addressed him. Because of our national inferiority complex, when they speak Russian to me, I automatically switch to Russian when they speak Belarusian, meaning Belarusian. But we must be Ukrainians with a sense of dignity! I think that Ogresco a highly qualified diplomat, and everyone knows that, and there's no question about his high diplomatic level, which he did just before me, because he went through all the stems, from the bottom to the top.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u79	Please, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected citizens of Ukraine, respected Ukrainian parliamentarians, prominent members of the Party of Regions and the Anti-Crist Coalition. I think I'm going to start saying these denominators and those that are just axiomatic. And everyone can hear me in this room, and most of all, outside of it, will definitely agree with me. Who can deny that the ambition of every business manager, district administrator, senior executive in the country is to have the best finance minister, the best health minister as an expert, the best economist, the best manager? Would someone deny it? Absolutely. And if there were the best experts on every chain of government across the vertical, I assure you, our efforts in Parliament would be very small. We would really live by high social standards, the word “European”, by the way, I don't even use it. Sadly, not so often do the golden grains of high - class professionals hang in the middle of the field that can be proud of the country. Regarding Ukrainian diplomacy, it seems to me that it is three steps ahead of all spheres of government activity. Dear colleagues, I think it's time to repeat this again, but for the Party of the Regions, I repeat that Stanislav Volodymyrovich Ogriszka's proposed candidate is the person who headed the External Relations Authority of the then President's Office when it was preparing a strategic partnership and friendship agreement with Russia. Needless to say, this is one of the best ambassadors in the country to remind you that this is one of the best diplomats in Ukraine today. Dear friends, with regard to fear that we, for God's sake, will not please those of our other staff assignment as one of the most highly qualified professionals, forget about the term in one language or another. I'm giving you an example of Belarus. As a friend of the “father” with Russia, we can no longer be friends. He spoke only Russian; in Russian he spoke exclusively all the official Belarus; and in Russian, all the negotiations were held. As a friend of the “father, ” to God, no one can. Because kissing in front and hugging in the back is just not possible for anyone. But how did all of this end? It ended up that the price of energy in Belarus today is higher than that of Ukraine. Therefore, the honorable Party of the Regions. And a crisis coalition, grab all hands and voices of a high-class candidate for the Ogrezka Foreign Minister, because there is no such thing in Belarus, because it is your strategic national interest to have a high-class official who defends national interests professionally, in a spirit of friendship with Russia and Ukraine. I'm sure you'll support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u81	Yes, dear colleagues, they were now called replicas. Dove one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u82	Those colleagues who accused me of using Russian. You know, I must have been worried about the President's promises when he was playing with the east electorate and telling him how to get rid of the Russian shores and he's almost crying. You must have known he was lying, but I believed him. But I don't want to talk about it today. Article of the Constitution, I would like to remind you that the Ukrainian State protects, guarantees and promotes the development of Russian, through a dot – “other languages of national minorities”. So, dear colleagues, let's finally give up the double standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u83	Thank you. But there's no dot, there's a coma, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, Vladimir Sergiyovich, do you have any desire to express yourself? Maybe you are. It doesn't, does it? Okay. Then, dear fellows, I see that those factions who say no will vote. That is why I am voting on the decision to appoint a foreign minister, to appoint Ogrzyk Vladimir Stanislavovic, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:56]] For 196 The factions. Region Party – 0, “Clock Timoshenko” – 117, “Our Ukraine” – 77, socialists, communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. So we're asking Roman Mikhailovich to tell the President that we're asking him to make a new application. What's that? It's up to the President. This is the President's right. He can do the same thing. This is the President's right. Yes, dear colleagues, perhaps we will also consider the B.S.A. and then announce the break? Yeah? Okay. Then let's ask that question, and then we'll call it a break. No, no, no, no, we're not voting yet. The appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service is under consideration. Once again, let's do it the same way we did it the other way. I invite you to the podium of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich to introduce the President. Please, three minutes. Get ready for Scybbian.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I assure you that the President of Ukraine will certainly take advantage of his constitutional powers and will make another application for the appointment of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would also like to remind the deputies that the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution, is in no way limited in the definition of this candidature. So, honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies of Ukraine, President of Ukraine in accordance with article 106, part 1, paragraph 14, of the Ukrainian Constitution, submits to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the application for the appointment of Victor the King as Head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Let us also draw the MP’s attention to the position contained in article 106, part 1, paragraph 1, of the Ukrainian Constitution, which defines the right of the President and the obligation to ensure Ukraine’s national security. According to the National Security Foundations Act, the area of the Ukrainian Security Service is one of the strategic components of Ukraine’s national security. To enable the President of Ukraine to carry out his direct constitutional duties and responsibilities, of course he would have had the opportunity to influence the identification of the leader of this extremely strategic office. On the basis of the above, please support the submission of the President of Ukraine for the appointment of Victor the King as head of the Ukrainian Security Service.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u85	Is there a question for Roman Mikhailovich? None. Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. From the committee, the head of the National Security and Defence Committee, Alexander Scybinecki. Is there a Scybinetsky? He's in combat, yes. Then, Samuelnka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u86	The distinguished deputies therefore considered the matter at their meeting and took the following decision. Given that the faction process proposed by the President had not been completed, the Committee had decided to move the matter to the session room. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u87	Only the Security Service can make the following decisions: short, clear, and wise. Thank you. Have a seat, please. I invite our colleague Victor Mikolaiovich King to the rostrum. Please. I think we'll do it the same way again: ask him a question. Please sign up for the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u88	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u89	Victor Mikolaiovich, wait for a few words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u90	Well, why did you invite me?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u91	Not to answer well, give 3 minutes, and then answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u92	Well, it's security, too. Quiet and forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u93	How much do you ask? How much do you want to play?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u94	I wanted 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u95	Ten minutes. Please, 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u96	Honorable National MPs. In connection with the submission by the President of Ukraine of my appointment as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the attention of society has been attached to both my person and my office. The media are talking about problems, problems, prospects for reforming the Ukrainian Security Service. Pretty positive, in my opinion, is that the question of my possible appointment as head of the Security Service did not just go through the blanket of the day before the vote, as is often the case in the practice of Ukrainian politics. For two weeks, more and more, all — journalists, politicians, representatives of executive authorities — Parliament had the opportunity to express its own opinion on the direction of the Security Service, the credibility of my appointment to this office, and in general on the prospects for this service. I have to say that this event has become essentially political and has made the relationship between the authorities as a state even more difficult. In my speech, I would like to draw the attention of my colleagues and all those who care about the future of the Security Service on the three main issues that, in my belief, have most attracted the attention of society and are key. First. As far as I'm concerned, I'm running for office. There is no secret that I have gone through my work in internal affairs. After a thorough examination of all the publications in the media that have been published recently, I can conclude. I'm a militiaman. A good militiaman. I am pleased to read that in my time I led various operations, including the discovery of a serial killer named Onopryenka, as well as a successful deputy minister of internal affairs. He left his post in disapproval of the authoritarianism of the government of Yuri Fedorovich Kravchenk. The kingdom of the heavens is upon him. Later, I had to become a “father” of the tax police. As deputy head of the DPA, Mikoli Janović Azarov. I've been in Parliament three times. They're twice in the Majority District. As a confidant of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine, he managed to carry out his campaign on his native Bukovin. I don't think we should add another tens of resonating cases to a list of what I've positively had in the police force. While working at the Ministry of Internal Affairs, I have not only gained experience in criminal matters but also in economic crimes. It is this experience that has ensured the successful creation of the Tax Police, which is still engaged in the detection and prevention of crime in the field of taxation. In appreciating me, I clearly understand that society has appreciated the positive work of honest police co-workers who are here and who are now continuing in the service, and I am grateful for that. Parliamentary work should be considered. That I have sufficient practical experience working on the profile committees is in the budget and in the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. Then not only am I a policeman and a tax collector but I am also a politician. However, I realize clearly that any of my political views and beliefs can in no way be combined with the work of law enforcement and special authorities, such a fundamental principle of the work of any power of the state. So if I'm chosen, it's going to be fundamental to my work. It's different. As for the current activity of the Ukrainian Security Service. As the Ukrainian Security Service is aware, it is a state law enforcement body of a special purpose that ensures Ukraine's national security. The first task of this body under the Ukrainian Security Service Act is to protect the sovereignty of Ukraine, the constitutional system, territorial integrity, economic, scientific and technical potential of Ukraine, the legitimate interests of the State and the rights of citizens from foreign intelligence, attacks by individual organizations, groups and individuals, and to ensure the protection of the public secret. Other tasks of the Security Service include the prevention, detection and detection of crimes against peace, human security, terrorism, corruption, organized crime in governance and the economy. However wise it is and remains: collecting information, processing and making decisions on this basis that can ensure the national security of the State. One of the priority tasks of the Ukrainian Security Service should be to combat corruption in accordance with current legislation. Legal and organizational principles for preventing, detecting and halting corruption, eliminating the consequences of corruption today require a qualitatively new filling and operational implementation mechanisms. The fight against corruption must be carried out on the basis of a clear legal regulation of the activities of public authorities and relevant services, which will result in a clear guarantee of the rights and interests of all, without exception, and not of individual political figures. The Security Service should be involved in the collection of information for further use, solely on the basis of tasks defined by valid legislation. Any other motives or reasons for the Security Service's activities are unacceptable, and with sufficient capacity to carry out these tasks today, the Ukrainian Security Service is capable of doing them to the full. Procrastination and lack of reasoning are totally unacceptable. I have no doubt that in order to carry out the tasks set out in the Law, the Ukrainian Security Service has a genuine professional work. Then, in the case of my appointment as head of the Security Service, I will be guided only by the principle of professionalism in the promotion of human resources policy in the service. Any political or private opinion on this matter is unacceptable to me. I would like to point out that during my meeting with the President of Ukraine, which was, in fact, a prerequisite for my nomination for the Ukrainian Security Service, a number of key points have been agreed upon and echoed regarding the possibility of my activities in this office. I'd like to introduce you. First of all, my candidacy in support of Parliament means working in this office for the entire period of President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenk's mandate. It's not for six months, it's for that period. So you can calm down and do what you take on yourself. The Security Service will work exclusively in the interests of the State, not individuals. The Security Service is directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine, not to his Secretariat or to any political power. And the head of the Ukrainian Security Service provides full information to both the President and the Prime Minister and the Head of Parliament. Only in these circumstances will my work in office be full. I would also like to point out that on the President's side this has been fully supported and confirmed that, on this basis, the service will work on such principles. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the state of service today needs substantial improvement. If. Only a number of well - thought - out measures are able to provide the public with exclusive tasks and services. Most important. The service needs to go to such a level as to be required by the law enforcement system, not one that looks for a job and deals with newspaper and television coverage of exposed money laundering and smuggling. I'm sorry, but we have other law enforcement agencies capable of doing this work at a professional level. And the third. Yes. to the future of the S.B.I. In Parliament, in the media, in various colleges, in the military, on the Round Tables, the issue of law enforcement is becoming increasingly the subject of judicial and law enforcement reform. This is no exception to the Ukrainian Security Service. However, it is only within the framework of the general concept of reforming the law enforcement and special bodies of Ukraine that such a process should take place. The creation of some separate law that regulates the very only matter is absurd and premature. Only a clear separation of functions between all law enforcement agencies will be a real understanding of the beginning for further cooperation, which will result in the performance of the functions of national security of the State. This is my general view of Ukraine's further development. My fellow national MPs! Today, there is no question of the appointment of a king or someone else. Indeed, the other thing is whether we will be able to bring one of the basic elements of the law enforcement system -- the Ukrainian Security Service -- together with political opposition. I think we can. Not today, that's how we can do it tomorrow, and here I want to say the words of a famous actor, "for the state, it's offensive if we don't do it." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u97	Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich. Yes, we have 10 colleagues on board. Let's take 10 minutes. Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u98	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, I am open to you and to the colleagues who are now in the hall, and to the people who are listening to us, I will tell you that I know you for the third time, I work with you, I know you as a decent and highly professional, moral person. But I'll be honest with you: if your performance today was published a little earlier, maybe the decision of our faction, for example, was a little different. I immediately apologize. But I have a question. Sooner or later, Victor Mikolaiovich, you're going to lead the B.S.A., I'm sure of that. In recent times, the Ukrainian Security Service, without recommending a contract for our exporters, has referred to the United States Department of State. I find such recommendations unacceptable because we should live with our own minds and worry about our own interests. Please tell me, what would be your position in the export of dual-dealing goods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u99	Well, I'm grateful for the assessment and the practical support of my own position. And I would like to say that the Ukrainian Security Service should be the filter, the one that won't give, well, to make, in Russian, tangible steps to our main people in the country. It must be an analysis, it must be reliable, timely, and objective information for the first persons of the State. If we do this along with you, we will clearly realize that our ministry is in place. The times when they were poisoned, shot, killed, and went back in time. The ministry is strong in its strong information security for the first human beings of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u100	Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u101	Igor Mikolaiovich, as I certainly want you to lead the Ukrainian Security Service. And I have a delicate question for you, which is still relevant for Ukraine. You are probably aware that in 1990, the group “239” led by Moroz was appointed the Head of the KGB of the U.S.R.R.R. Galushka, who two months later fled to Moscow after the declaration of independence and headed the service of Russian foreign intelligence, taking with him operational material and network of secret workers. And I think this influence is still being maintained today. Would you not be willing to approach this network with great care in your position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u102	Thank you. Well, what you've said is that it's a betrayal of the interests of the service, of the interests of the state, and it's a punishment. As to how to ensure this, I think we need to make sure that we don't get into this service by accident, so that people who use that information and important information for their personal purposes and for the harm of the state don't get caught. And I'm going to do everything I can to make every security officer in the Ukraine if I'm chosen to take an oath and not take a step from it, so there's no one working on a contract, not an oath. For the words of the oaths say: Loyalty, loyalty, and all the other principles that we should speak with you, not only but also to put into practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u103	Thank you, only I would ask, colleagues, not to mention the missing, for the Gaulka did not vote 239. Look, there were 300 votes, you'll find a lot of familiar names. The Barranian Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u104	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. Dear Victor Mikolaiovich, you and I have not known each other for a year, and I respect you as a great professional, and as for the good things in the militia that you've done today, and your human qualities. And my question here is, do you know the scandal that is today in Ukraine, in our society, about listening to the telephones of the Supreme Council's head, whether it's the security service, or the external development service, or other services, or commercial structures, we find it difficult to say today. And unfortunately, it's been so long, we haven't gotten the answers to these questions. Please tell me if you can put an end to this disgraceful phenomenon in Ukraine when the phones are being played, I'm not talking about the simple mortal MPs. And when you listen to the phones of senior officials of the state and then it all comes out to society. This tells us how vulnerable we are. I don't say we're deputies anymore, we're not protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u105	Thank you. I fully share with you the position that illegal listening, the illegal implementation of other measures, which are then used as a political tool, is a disgraceful phenomenon in Ukraine. As you hoped, after 2005, when the leaders of the law enforcement system changed, this phenomenon would be brought to an end. But that didn't happen. And so if I'm chosen, I'm going to act clearly and within the limits of what rights there are. That is, if there is any evidence of illegal listening or other violations of human constitutional rights, this issue will be criminalized and all the possibilities of the service will be acted upon to find out who did it, to stop it, and not to threaten our nation, to our nation. And this is one of the top priorities of the service, and no one but them can do this task.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u106	Valentin Matviev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u107	Thank you. Dear Victor Mikolaiovich! I have two questions. First of all, why are you leading the interim commission of inquiry into the causes of bankruptcy, and actually this is not bankruptcy, but the theft of the bank “Ukraine” for several years, and you have not dared to call it here, in the session hall, who is specifically responsible for the fact that the largest bank in Ukraine has been destroyed. That's the first one. Who prevented you from doing this? If possible, name names specifically. And the second question. The media knows that you were preparing so-called “fighters” during the period of the orange field. So the question is, whose account, specifically at the expense of who did this work, and how do you appreciate it from a legal point of view? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u108	Let me give you the answer from the last question: this is a complete lie about some fighter and my involvement. That's what I'm telling you, looking into your eyes. You're lying! And you don't. Before that lie in the media, the lie in your mouth. Period. Now in relation to the position of the bank “Ukraine”. Honorable national MPs, who listen to us when the Bank of Ukraine went bankrupt, the Supreme Council decided to set up a temporary commission of inquiry on which it was tasked. First, find out why. Second, help me turn around. and name the 150 largest debtors of the bank “Ukraine”. And the member, all the representatives of the political forces went to the commission. And realizing that some of the political forces would insist on sharpening the issue only to the person who stole it rather than pay it back, I proposed to the first deputy commission to select Communist Kravchenk, who is responsible for law enforcement and for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u109	Let me finish because it's an interesting question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u110	I'll tell you what the commission did. First, she described the causes, including the theft. Second, the commission returned, and now, listen, the bankrupt bank, returned more than 50% to the investors, i.e. to all the individuals, I say to the whole state, the refunded costs regardless of the size of the contribution. The bankruptcy bank was with the state, 500 million dollars. The commission has made it possible that the third turn of the legal person is already half calculated. Now I'm calling you, the commission called the persons involved, once. The commission named 150 of the largest debtors and published them in the media, and the prosecution and law enforcement agencies in which crimes were found were held accountable. These are the first people to rule the bank “Ukraine”, these are the heads of the regional offices, that's all. You asked, I'll answer. And I'm very happy and I would like you and I to have the experience of liquidation of the Bank of Ukraine into other banks that are now bankrupt, 19, where all the individuals will be protected, where we first adopted with you two laws and three Supreme Council rulings, these are the results of the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u111	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u112	And unfortunately, as chairman of the commission, I submitted to the Supreme Council about the encouragement of the deputies who worked, unfortunately, they didn't consider it, because there was a policy there again, not all. So I completely reject the blame. And what you wanted to hear from me at the time of the commission's work, at this time the President of Ukraine was not involved in the bankruptcy of the Bank of Ukraine, he was the only prime minister, the ex-premiers who came to the meeting of the Commission, he listened to questions from all the political forces, he answered and then the question before him was removed. If you had any other information, let's look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u113	Thank you. But I wouldn't want Victor Mikolaiovich to use his experience, to forget him, and not to let anyone go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u114	I support you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u115	Yeah. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u116	Because they wanted me to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u117	Have a seat. Are you willing to participate in the discussion? Nobody insists? None. Okay. Well, what's more, we know that the third call has already been made by most of us here, i.e. the idea that we have, the report, the answers have been added to us. I am voting on the proposal to appoint the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, King Viktor Mikolaiovich. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:20:40]] For 190 Factions: Region Party – 0, Timoshenko Block – 112, “Our Ukraine” – 76, Socialists, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. Yes, dear fellows, it's time to take a break. Let's get to 12,50 recesses, at 12:50, we'll start by considering the appointment and release of judges, and then we'll go in order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We'll continue the meeting. And as usual, we do this on Thursdays at 12:30, but today a little later, we are discussing the question of the election and release of judges. Please, I'd like to invite a colleague again. Colleagues, please come into the session room, because we need voices, and we need hands to do that. Yes, Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov, please head of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u119	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, present. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered the submission by the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges without a period of time, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree 3202 of February 20, this year. Honorable national MPs, under the procedure of the court, read out the names of the judges, and the judge rises from the seat. And, if there are warnings to him, the national MPs answer from the place. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and returned to its consideration after voting on another. The committee recommends that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov Region of Shabanov Mikola Sergiyovich; Dnipropetrov's Administrative Court of Appeal Procedural of Helen Anatoliyevna, Uhanenka Sergija Anatoliyovich; The Kyiv Administrative Court of Appeal, Baranek Igor Ivanovich; The Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal, Plish Mikhail Antonovich; Odessa of the Administrative Court of Appeal Bitov Andrija Ivanovich, Yakovljev Jurija Viktorovich; The Kyiv Economic Court of Appeal, Losev Anton Mikhailovich; Kiev Interdisciplinary Court of Appeal Agrikov Aleksandr Volodymyrna; the local Kerchen City Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Resnichenko Svetlana Alexiyevna; the local Red Cross District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Haldeyev Olen Victorovna; the local Lower Highland District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Custow Irina Viktorovna; the local Simferopol district court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Billous Victoria Vasilovna; the local Yellow District Court of Dnipropetrovska Czernowské Hennady Viacheslavovich; the local Bolykhiv city court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Polanica Mikolaiovich; the local Ulyanov district court of Kirovgrad district of Titarenk Volodymyr Edouardovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u120	Is there a objection to Titusenk? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u121	The local Pridniprovsky District Court of Cerkasa Bondarenko Sergio Ivanovich; the local Lenin district court of Sevastopol Balukowa Katerina Georgieva, Kazakova Valentina Vejacheslavovich; The local Donetsk District Administrative Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u122	I'm sorry. According to Kozak's Valentine, is there a note? Baluk or Kozakov? Both, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u123	Local Donetsk District Administrative Court Gorbenko Catherine Panasovna; the local court of the Dnipropetrov district of Igor Mikolaiovich; the local court of the Zaporozhye district of Proscurakov Kiril Valerianovich; the local court of the Luhansk district of Kirpa Tamar Stepanovna; Local Economic Court of the Lviv district of Danko Les Semenovna
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u124	Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, What about Kostov? Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u125	Costs, yes. And the Odessa district farm court Grabovan Lilia Ivanovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, so let us now vote if you have no objection to the election of judges on an urgent basis to those you have no questions about, and then we will talk specifically about each of those judges to whom you have a question. Therefore, I am voting on the ruling number 3202 on the election of the judges listed in this ruling, with the exception of the candidate for the office of the local Ulyanov district court of Kirovgrad district of Titarenka, the local Lenin district court of Sevastopol Balukow and Kazakov and the local commercial court of the Lviv district of Kost. And for the rest, please support me. Vote. [[12:57:09]] For 334 Decision taken. Let us welcome the chosen judges. [[Applause]] Yes, then I invite you to the microphone of Titarenko Vladimir Eduardoovich. Come up, please, there's got to be a microphone. Is it? Note? Samolik, please. Samuel's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u127	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I also spoke to Sergey Vasilovich Kiwalov the day before, and I am more likely to ask him questions and wishes. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, we must remove the Titanic's candidacy from consideration, not vote for it. We've got, we've shown you the address, we've got the letters. Let's take an extra look at these questions, and then the committee will figure it out. I would ask you to listen to our thoughts, especially, indeed, we have a reference.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u128	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u129	We don't deny it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u130	You don't deny it. Okay. Lilia Grigorovitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u131	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! Dear Sergey Vasilovich! I don't have any more questions to judge Titarenka, all of these questions we've asked him on a number of occasions before, and unfortunately we haven't received any answers. I have letters, letters, which. The Titanic candidate seems to have united in the Ulyan region of all. Here I have in my hands a letter from the local circuit organization of the Party of the Regions, named Raisa Vasilovna Bogatyrova. People are very much asking that all of us, together, who define justice in the country, do not impose a stupid and stubborn judge of business in a region that does not recognize a judge as a person who has the right to do justice. Let us listen to these letters and postpone the consideration of this candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u132	Sas, please. Then Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u133	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I also associate myself with the thought expressed by Lilia Stepanovna, Katerina Seminovna, regarding the postponement of the matter in essence with regard to Judge Titarenko of the Ulyanov district of Kirovograd. I think we need to learn more. There are a lot of appeals and complaints about this candidate, and I don't think the Supreme Council can support this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u134	Please, Artemenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u135	Deputies! Dear Catherine Seminal, Lilia and everyone else! I'm talking to someone else. Let's finally stop this burden so that we're on the same judge, against whom not only the Party of Regions is united, I have a letter, by the way, to Mrs. Samolik and your head of the Ulyanov district organization Kosevich. I've talked to the people in Ulyanivka personally, so let's go to the protocol as it is, according to our Rules, Adam Ivanovich, put to the vote. It won't work. And a dot. Four years, five tries. How many can be bullied by the deputies of the Ulyanov region? Or is there some other interest? But let's ask a question and vote, because we've already entered the decision-making process. Adam Ivanovich, which is why we have to put "for" or "no" and then we will say something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u136	Okay. It'll be fine. We must do it according to the Rules and the Law, for we have a special law concerning the appointment and release of judges. This is even higher than the Rules. It's gonna be okay. Is there no more? Then let's do it. No, no, no, we're still on this run, Jaroslav. So that's how we do it. There were two suggestions: one suggestion was to assign a profile committee once again to check these complaints and make a final decision; and there was a second suggestion to consider the candidate now. Since the first was the proposal and, in order, the draft ruling, I am the first to vote: who is in charge of choosing Titarenko Vladimir Eduardoovich as judge of the local Ulyanov district court of Kirovgrad? [[13:02:27]] For-0 What did Artemenko want, I don't understand? Dear colleagues, then, as we agreed, there is a law that twice the candidate has the right to go through this procedure. We're going to assume that he didn't get through it once because he got zero. So let's give the commission to the profile committee, and now I'm going to put it to a vote, check all of these facts, put it on the next session for a final decision. Please vote. Take down the vote. Artemenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u137	Adam Ivanovich, I just want to say, and let Sergey Vasilovich confirm, because this procedure was already held with this judge on November 2, 2006. It's already 4th or 5th time. Well, how much can you say? We made the final decision. And there were two or three votes after it. I have a candidate, a stenogram, where, by the way, Mr. Kiwalov is speaking, both Mr. Lazko, and Mrs. Grigorovich, and Marmazov. Everyone's absolutely against it. It's been six months, we're back.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u138	Okay. Let's do it again, I don't remember for sure, but I think we didn't look at this proposal at the time, but we sent it to the committee. And so once again, your honorary colleagues, I point out that according to the law, a judge has the right to make two attempts. One attempt he made today, because then in November we sent him over to the committee, and the committee invited us to look him up. He's got zero votes, so he's got one more shot. The committee will bring it in again or not. And then we'll make decisions. Nastyek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u139	Adam Ivanovich, you rightly say that the committee, that the law on the order of election and the release of judges in the timeless Supreme Council, provides for the possibility of twice considering the candidature. But Adam Ivanovich, the point is that this should be a new submission of the subject, particularly the head of the Supreme Court. That is why the decision is not made today. He is not elected, but you are absolutely right that the head of the Supreme Court, if he considers it appropriate, has the right to reinstate him once again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u140	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. So we don't vote anything. The solution is, if there is a submission, the committee will reconsider and offer us what to do next. Thank you. Yes, regarding the local Lenin District Court of Sevastopol Balukov, Katerina Georgievna, please come to the microphone. Did Matthew have any objections? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u141	Baluk's Catherine of Georgia. Richter’s Raisa Vasilovna was approached by a Ukrainian citizen, who said that the preparation of your documents had deliberately reduced the number of canceled and amended decisions. So I ask that these facts be verified and that your candidacy be put forward next time for the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u142	Well, it's basically not for the judge, because she wasn't preparing the papers, so I'm the head of the committee. Sergey Vasilovich, are you aware of the fact that there is a forgery of documents against Judge Baluk's Catherine of Georgia? Inadequate information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, you know, after the committee meeting, we came up with a piece of paper after we decided. And there were some individuals who stressed and said that it was not necessary to verify the precise data, in his view, who the complainant had addressed, were covered in the official certificate. In order for us to actually check, and we have not had the opportunity, and the decision is taken, I ask the people's deputies to withdraw this candidature, and at the next meeting, I will, with your permission, inform the people's deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, shall we? Because we really have to check who's right, who's wrong, so that, sorry for the non-parliamentary expression, don't smoke the candidature, let's do it this way: well, the Baluk candidate is transferred to the next session when the committee is ready and the facts are checked. Kazakov Valentin Vjacheslavovich. Yes, please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u145	According to Kazakov Valentina Vejacheslavovich, I have the same question because the same treatment said that there was a likelihood that his case would also reduce the number of amended and repealed decisions. Therefore, I also ask that the question be considered by the deputies and that the candidature be withdrawn today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u146	Sergey Vasilovich, the same. I mean, two names. Then let's do this, please, committee, check this complaint or information or what to call it. Yes, please, Kostov Tetjana Sergiyevna, the local court-martial of the Lviv region. Kenzier, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u147	Dear colleagues! In my name and on behalf of the committee of Kiwalova, a letter was received from the permanent commission of the Lviv City Council for Environmental Use, Environmental Protection, which states that on 10 November 2005 Judge Kostov made a decision in favour of the manufacturing cooperative “Renovation”, a openly rerider decision which required the Gribovic village council of the Jovkow district of Lviv district to appoint this cooperative, not much, not much, 32 hectares of the first category of recreational forest. This forest was never in the knowledge of the Gribovic village council. On March 14, 2006, the Lviv Economic Court of Appeal annulled the decision. On November 30, 2006, the Supreme Administrative Court also overturned the decision of the 10th Economic Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u148	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u149	Checks on this point of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Lviv Region, the BSC and the DSB, which have conducted investigations, are extremely negative and today, taking into account this fact, I am convinced that we cannot approve Judge Kostov or further investigate this case, because when, on behalf of the Ukrainian State, such openly illegal decisions are made, of course, we have no right to hold such judges in the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u150	Thank you. But whether it is shameful or not, it is not for us to judge, but it is for us to conclude, perhaps, a committee. What is the opinion of the committee, Sergey Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I support National Deputy Kendzior. Indeed, none of the MPs had been sent by the Permanent Commission, and two had been sent by the Deputies. And we really need to check, and we made a decision Wednesday, and the fax came in and the complaint came in on Friday. I would therefore like to encourage the people's deputies to withdraw the committee to verify this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u152	Tetjana Sergiyevny's candidacy is also being transferred if there is no objection. You don't? Okay. Thank you. We are done with this decree. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Justice at its session has reviewed and supported the application of the High Council of Justice on the release of judges from the local courts and has made an appropriate draft decision under registration number 3203, which has been handed down to you. On July 4, 2006, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, by the approval of the College of the Court of Justice in criminal matters, left the judgements of the Court of Appeal against Judge Manuelak unchanged. The term of office. And please, the committee is asking for support from the High Council of Justice and an agreement to release him from office.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u154	Yes, of course. Questions to the head of the committee. None. It's clear here that they say it's like God's day. I'll put it to a vote, or we'll be separate. Together? Then let's do another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the term of office of the court-martial of the Dnipropetrovsk garrison, Krasula Valerija Volodymirovic, ended on April 14, 2005. On March 16, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine did not elect him to serve as a judge on an indefinite basis. In view of this, Judge Krasula does not have sufficient judicial service to release her from retirement. The Supreme Council of Justice introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine an application for his release from the judge’s office in connection with the conclusion of the term for which he was elected. Please support these candidatures.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u156	No questions? Then, honourable colleagues, I put to the vote the Supreme Council order number 3203 on the release of judges. Dismissed from the position of judges: The local Colombian District Court of Ivano-Frankiv district of Manulak Vasil Fedorovich in connection with the acquisition of legal force by an indictment against him; The military court of Dnipropetrovsk Garrison Krasul Valeri Volodymyrovich in connection with the end of the term for which he was elected. Please vote. [[13:14:08]] For 271 I'll take the order. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u157	Honorary colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice, discussed the submission by the Attorney General of Ukraine of an unprecedented action — the arrest of a judge. The Attorney-General is asking us, the National Deputies, to agree to be taken into custody by the judge of the Arbusinsk District Court of the Mikolai district of Pampura Oleg Ivanovich. The Justice Committee has scrupulously studied the circumstances of the case and has established: On March 9, 2006, the deputy prosecutor of the Mikolai District filed a criminal case against the head of the Pampura court on the grounds of the crime envisaged in article 68, part 2, of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, “Acquisition of bribes by a service person”. The trial found that when Pampur was in charge of the court, the lawyer demanded $6,000 in bribes for mitigating the sentence. In addition, criminal records show that Pampura is not the only victim of bribery. For 5 years from 2001 to 2005, he demanded and received bribes from a resident of the Arbusinian region in matters relating to the recognition of land rights. It follows that during that period the head of the Pampur court received a bribe of 48 thousand and 800 dollars. The investigation also found that Judge Pampur was pressing witnesses, causing them to give false testimony. Today, Judge Pampur is hiding from the investigation. In view of the facts presented, the Justice Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine agree to be taken into custody by the judges of the local Arbusinsk District Court of Pampura. The relevant draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, number 3204, has been issued to you. Please support the application of the Attorney General. The application was supported by the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. I'd like your support, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u158	Will there be questions? None. Then let's define ourselves. I put to the vote Order No. 3204 concerning the granting of custody and seizure in custody, the arrest of the judge of the local Arbusinian District Court of the Mikolai district of Pampura Oleg Ivanovich. Please vote. [[13:17:27]] For 292 Decision taken. Have we considered all the questions from the judges? Okay, thanks. Let us once again welcome those judges whom we have chosen on an untimely basis today. We wish that they would not fall into the kind of decisions that we have taken after they have been chosen. Good luck. Thank you. Sergey Vasilovich, what is the idea of appointing members of the Supreme? Sergei Vasilovich, opinion of the committee on the appointment of members of the Supreme Qualifications Commission of Judges of Ukraine. Offer: Transfer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u159	There's an offer to take this question forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u160	I put it to a vote: who would like the question of the appointment of the members of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine to be postponed, please vote. [[13:18:32]] For the 220. By factions, please: Region Party – 157, Block Timoshenko – 12, Our Ukraine – 2, SPI – 26, 21, 2. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? Come back. [[13:19:02]] For 229 We're back. Who, in order to postpone consideration of the appointment of members of the Supreme Qualification Commission of judges of Ukraine, please vote. [[13:19:23]] For 240 A decision has been made. We are considering draft decrees on the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. We have two bills: 3163 and 3163-1. With reference to Bill No. 3163, the Head of the Supreme Council decrees that, in connection with the election of Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. I think that's -- you understand the situation, and it's going to be natural here. Now, please inform Olga Borisovna Bodnar of your draft ruling. Please, 3163-1 — draft decree on the head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. Please. And get Cosuba ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman, thank you for your opportunity to speak. On February 8, we elected the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Tomenko Mikol Volodymirovich. And, as you know, the Supreme Council Committees Act, the Rules do not allow the committee to assume its responsibilities as deputy to the Supreme Council. Accordingly, according to the quota that belongs to our deputy faction, this draft decree is issued. It proposes to release Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich from his duties as head of the Supreme Council Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Tourism and to elect him to serve on our quota for the School of Andrija Vasilovich, freeing him from his duties as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs. These changes are proposed according to the quota of our deputy faction. I will be grateful for your understanding and support. We ask our ruling to vote at the same time as the Moroz ruling, because it is broader, more complete and more consistent with the current legislation and with the regulatory norms that are envisaged. It is more complete than Alexander Frost suggested.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u162	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please, Kozub Aleksandar Andriyovich, head of the Committee's subcommittee on Rules, MP ethics and the activities of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u163	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Committee considered the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision “On the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism”, introduced by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Moroz, Registration No. 3163 of 13 February 2007, in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The draft decree proposes to recall Ukrainian national deputy Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism in connection with the election by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 8, 2007. The Committee considers that, in accordance with the requirements of part four of article 79 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, it would be appropriate for the author of the draft to amend the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of heads, first interlocutors, representatives of heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 5th call and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. That is, change the name of the regulation. The committee decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider the proposed draft decree and take it into account the Committee’s observations. I would also like to add to the above, to the knowledge of the people's deputies, as outlined in the above-mentioned draft 36., 3163-1, which has been introduced with a violation of the requirements of part one of the first article of the 25th Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules in the order of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today, on February 22, submitted by Bodnar Olga Borisovna, has not been considered by the Committee. And it's not up to the committee. The draft regulation proposes to resolve the issue of the release of the national deputy Tomenko Mikli Volodymyrovic from the responsibilities of the head of the Committee on Family Affairs, Youth Policy and Sport and Tourism, and to elect, according to part 7 of the satti78 regulations, the Supreme Council for this post of National Deputy, School of Education, Andrija Vasilovic. The Supreme Council's proposal to decide on these issues is thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u164	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are we going to discuss questions? Oh, no? Dear colleagues, then in order to submit these orders, I think we understand that the committee has not yet considered, but we can, the Supreme Council can make a decision without a committee. I don't see any problems. Bodnar, please, Olga Borisovna, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u165	I want to stress that again. What a big request it is not to be involved in politics right now. Now, the fundamental issue that is addressed by the Rules of our Supreme Council. By the quota of our faction and just Alexander Frost's determination is not entirely complete. Well, we're gonna fire Tomenko from this position, who's gonna be in charge? Under the rules, a deputy can't control his head. So let's just get this right. The school leaves its previous position by hugging a new one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u166	All right, Olga Borisovna. But your half was full, and instead of School someone else had to be offered to the committee. Well, it doesn't matter, you're absolutely right, and I reaffirm once again that according to our Committee Act, according to the Committee's Rules, the quota remains behind the political power it was. These are perfectly right representatives of Block Tymoshenko. I'll put the draft rulings in order. The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Family, Youth Politics, Sports, and Tourism is voted on. Please vote. Author – Frost. [[13:26:34]] For 233 Decision taken. Let us, dear colleagues, thank Mikola Volodymyrovich, who served as chairman of the committee fairly conscientiously and wish him a quick recovery so that he can help us here as a substitute for the Head of the Supreme Council. I now put to the vote the proposal of the faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” to appoint, and more precisely to select the School of Andrija Vasilovich, the Ukrainian National Deputy of the Timoshenko Block, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, releasing him from the duties of deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council in foreign affairs. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:27:35]] For 178. Dear colleagues, I'd like to ask very much, I'm addressing the factions of all, let's have a consultation with you on this. Once again, under all the laws and regulations, this is a fractional quota, this is the European Union's law. But how much would you really like to listen to Andrew and ask him a question? Come on. No, no, wait, they have the right to make that nomination. No need, no need, they have the right to make any nomination. So I'm asking, let's calmly, let's take a balanced approach to this question, and next plenary week, I'm asking you to reconcile everything and the committee to consider the proposals that will be made so that we can make decisions on the committee's head. We need to make a decision on the committee head. A draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, registration number 2358, is under consideration. The deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy will report to Zvaricz Igor Teodorovich. I literally have two words, Igor Teodorovitch, that the Head of the Supreme Council has proposed to us the creation of a special Temporary Commission that will take care of the problems involved in amending the Constitution, because you know that this issue has not yet been completed, as well as those bills that are directly defined in the Constitution and are recognized as having to be accepted. Unfortunately, we still have a certain debt to society that we have not fulfilled in the full extent of the requirements of the Constitution, we have not adopted those laws that are directly provided for in the Constitution. And one more point: you remember, especially those colleagues who worked on the previous call, that we had such a commission and it worked pretty well because there were representatives from all the factions and groups. The Commission is proposed to create a proportional basis for all factions to be represented. I personally, when I was on the subject, asked the heads of factions to submit to this commission the most qualified representatives of factions who are most understood on constitutional law, who can do the most. who can make the biggest contribution to our adoption of well-established, well-balanced laws. laws and changes to the Constitution that will work, that will work for society. And that's why the list that you see, we're going to be discussing and accepting it right now, really meeting these criteria. And I thank the heads of factions who have recommended to a committee of their most qualified lawyers, representatives of factions who know, I'm sorry, so much for such a word, in this matter. Please, from the committee, deputy head Zvarz Igor Teodorovich. Please, Igor Theodoreovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u167	Dear colleagues, dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you for your help in presenting the project that we will discuss today. Indeed, on February 21, this year, the Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting the question of whether it would be appropriate to establish a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on the drafting of Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine. The members of the committee agreed that the issues that were proposed to be referred to the commission by paragraphs 1 and 2 of section 2 of draft Decree No. 2358 were one of the most important subjects of the Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. In his decision, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government recommended that we reject Project No.2358 as one that contradicts the Supreme Council's decision on matters of knowledge of the Supreme Council V call, as well as the proposal to adopt a draft decision that is currently being considered in such an editorial form. As a result, our committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft ruling in an editorial form proposed by the members of the Committee on Legal Policy, which is numbered 2358-D. With regard to the content of the amended commission decision, taking into account the urgent need, indeed, for the continuation of political reform, the representatives of all the political parties represented in Parliament are involved in the relevant process. We suggest that we refer to the Commission's knowledge of the questions provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 of the draft decision. As a result, I would like to add that, as a result of further consultations today with the factions and deputies proposed by the commission, paragraph 3 suggests that the head of the Temporary Special Commission should elect the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich, and the Deputy Head of the Temporary Special Commission should elect the First Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Justice, Onichuk Mikol Vasilovich. We believe that the adoption of this draft regulation will have a positive impact on the organisation of quality work in drafting drafts, namely, in an editorial that is proposed to allow the commission not to intervene, but to minimize the interference of the subject of knowledge of the parliamentary committees. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u168	Please, I can see the questions. Write down the questions you want to ask. Please press the buttons. Yes, please give me six minutes of Matthews.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u169	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, in that we need to create such a special, temporary special commission to draft laws to amend the Constitution of Ukraine, I think we, more than ever, are confident, especially at this time when there is a lot of talk about the problem of making changes to the Constitution itself. Some politicians have already agreed that this should be convened by a constitutional assembly that would approve not only change, but they think they can and will re-write the Constitution under the President, who today should admit that we are living in the new state of the parliamentary and presidential state and need to comply with our laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u170	Well, that was a wish, I get it, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u171	Yes, it was a wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u172	And a good wish. That's right. Please, Shevchuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u173	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear reporter, you mentioned the positive experience of a similar commission in the last cadence. It really is. But I want to remind you that in the last cadence, the commission worked under the chairmanship of two men: one was from the opposition, Alexander Alexander Moroz, and the other from the then majority was Stepan Gavrish. Please tell me why you are now violating this democratic principle and determining that this important commission is solely a representative of the majority. Why do you think democracy needs to be reduced, circumcised, because this is going to lead to confrontation from the very beginning. And we didn't want all the people's deputies to start their work that way. And, Adam Ivanovich, I'm addressing you, maybe you'd do well to suggest that, let's say, our colleague Onischuk is also a co-head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u174	Yeah, there'll be an offer, we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u175	I thank you for asking with such a reply that it is certainly also not democratic to blame for violating the democracy of the one who did not violate it. We'll make this proposal, we'll vote and we'll take your offer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u176	Kostenko, please. None. Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u177	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Valerius Pisarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Well, as for this decision, Igor Teodorovich, you know how it went through the committee hard. The main point made by the Legal Policy Committee was that it takes away the mandate of the committee, and in fact, the Legal Policy Committee, in time, we're going to have to close, if we create one or two more commissions, we can close the Legal Policy Committee. But the question is, Igor Teodorovich, I believe that a number of such commissions have been created today. As you know, there's a commission working with the President, a commission working there in the Cabinet of Ministers is working on these laws. The Committee on Legal Policy is very conscientious in dealing with such matters. But we're making another commission that duplicates the authority of several other committees. Can't we just keep those laws or bills that apply to the Constitution? Will this hinder their acceptance in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u178	Thank you for asking. As you've noticed, really, we've been discussing the draft of this decision quite a lot. And of course, the question you asked has the right to exist. However, I think that it is in such an editorial way that it does not deprive our commission not only of the possibilities, but also of the need to consider projects that will be brought before Parliament, because this is part of the powers of any committee of profile, particularly ours in this case, as the main one, in any decision that I will refer to matters of committee knowledge. [[draft regulation]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u179	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u180	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Igor Teodorovich! I have a question for you as a professional, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, as a lawyer, to remove the mutual suspicions that have already been heard here in this session room about someone wanting to write something good earlier, someone later. As far as I know, the Constitution was adopted at a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and may be amended by a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please tell me whether the work of this commission is foreseen, whether it is the joint work of this commission with other commissions that have already been referred to here by colleagues created under the auspices of either the President of Ukraine, or the Kiev-Mogilian Academy, or any other institutions and institutions aimed at improving our Basic Law, the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u181	Thank you for the question raised, to what extent is the organization of the commission itself involved. And I understand that in order to achieve the objectives set out in the draft regulation, all the possibilities of the science of Ukraine and not only of Ukraine, but also of foreign experience will be involved. [[And I hope that we will accept it as a determination]] And I think it'll do us good to work out the right decision for which we vote correctly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u182	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u183	Dear Igor Teodorovich! You said correctly that yesterday the committee really was looking at this issue and actually was preparing today's draft decision, but you forgot to say that not all committee members supported that decision. And I was among those who did not support the reasons already mentioned today, my colleague Pisarenko, and I will not repeat myself. But we agreed on a committee that the final drafting of this draft regulation would take into account the observations I made during the discussion. Unfortunately, the vast majority of them are not included, particularly with regard to the drafting of a bill that gives the Supreme Court legislative initiative on the need for a previous report after six months of the commission's work, and so on, a whole series of questions. Why was this not taken into account? And on the other hand, given that obviously a decision has already been made, and the commission will be created, I support Chevchuk's colleague on the need to establish the position of co-chairs of this commission, which I think will add very seriously to the work of this commission, and on a parlative basis will allow for a balance of political interests in its representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u184	Thank you for asking. Dear colleagues, let me report. Thank you for asking. As for me, he didn't think it was necessary to talk about the dramatism of committee meetings, but the result was that most of one man's decisions were made as proposed. At the same time, I think that in drafting the draft decision, you could count what you said. As for the decision on the heads, on the heads of such a committee, of course, I can no longer present myself as the decision of the committee. Obviously, we need to identify ourselves in the very Hall of the Supreme Council, in the sessional room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u185	Yes, dear friends. Well, let Sass put in a word. It may calm down the members of the BIT who have become distraught.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u186	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Sas, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. The honourable reporter, Sir Adam Ivanovich, may have reached the conclusion of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, which considered the President’s draft decree. And the committee had taken a negative conclusion that the ruling provided for a number of violations of the Rules and the Law of Ukraine on the Status of the People's Deputy, in particular the parts of the first article of the 14th, which stipulated that a national deputy could be a member of a commission of inquiry or temporary commission. In draft decrees 8 members, 8 proposed candidates are already members of other commissions. The draft decree also violates the proportional principle of representation from each faction and does not define the quantity composition, so the committee finds it impossible to take a decision today as a Supreme Council decree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u187	Yes, thank you. Igor Teodorovich, thank you for the meaningful report and the answers to the questions. Have a seat, please. And for the debut, and for the rest of it. Dear colleagues, let's do this. Now we're going to vote on the basis, and then we're going to vote on all the proposals, because there's a lot of proposals here, and the factions have made some changes, we're going to vote for the changes. And once again, let me stress, we're going to be voting on the basis of the 2358-d project. The one that was prepared by the members of the Committee on Legal Policy. The third item is going to make a change, that's the basis, and then, as we define it, choose Martinyuk's head and the substitute for Onischuk's head. These are the changes to this decree. And about the personnel warehouse. Instead of the Welder, Ilyad Ilyad Grigory Alexiyovich. The prince comes out here because either the faction is defined because it's already outside the fractional quota. And there were some changes made by factions, BUT already made instead of Tomenko Timoshenko and Korniychuk, that is. I mean, based on 2358 d. With what I've read. Based on the base. Vote. 2358 B.C.E. [[13:45:03]] For 234 Thank you. Now, honourable colleagues, there was a suggestion that, rather than choosing the head and deputy, the two co-chairs of the commission should be Martinyuk and Oneschuk. I'll put this motion to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:45:36]] For-82 Now here's another one. I especially ask you, fellow Members of the faction of our Ukraine, who you have, pay attention! – who can help me because there was a suggestion to exclude the commission of the Head from the membership of the committee in question, and to bring Moses and Prokopovich to the board. [[I see he's here.]] Well, not two, but one. I mean, what's the final bid? Are we taking the Chief out or leaving? We're staying, aren't we? Please, Onichuku microphone. Deputy Head of the “Our Ukraine” faction. Miki Onichuka's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u188	Adam Ivanovich, the name of the Head, was in that decree that was made from the very beginning. It's not in the committee's ruling, well, committee deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u189	Who's gone?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u190	The head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u191	No, the Head of the Committee’s ruling is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u192	He's staying. No change.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u193	All right, then. Well, they asked for more factions, yesterday or yesterday, there was an offer about Moses that he was a lawyer known. We're in, but we're in. I mean, define yourself. So we voted on all the proposals. I put it to a vote in general: the adoption of a total of 2358-d. [[13:47:29]] For 232 It's been decided. Thank you. A draft Ordinance on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to examine the reasons for selective tax compensation on added value, infringement by officials of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine and the State Treasury of Ukraine on taxation is under consideration. Registration number 2439. Biruk Lev Vasilovich, please. Is it? Yes, please, Lev Vasilovich. I'm getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u194	President-in-chief, honourable colleagues, your attention to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry to examine the causes of selective tax compensation for added value, the violation by officials of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine and the State Treasury of Ukraine's legislation in the field of taxation. Dear friends, the decree and the VAT law in our country were introduced almost 10 years ago. And in that time, almost 1,209 changes and additions were made. The VAT in our country is copied from the laws of developed economic states and where, there, the VAT law acts as a regulator for reprocessing. In us it only creates, let's say, a shadow scheme of budget management. Our decision, we registered it on the 11th, 15.11.2006, was discussed on the committees. And, for example, from regulatory activities, it determines that the draft regulation is prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and that it has been decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft decision to consider and support it. I wanted to name just a few numbers about, let's say, a tactless solution to the issue of VAT return. So the overall VAT recovery plan in August 6th was implemented by 76%. In Crimea, the Luhansk region was 130% and in Volinsky, for example, 2.7. Thus, the absence of a response to processes where direct recovery instructions and the legal basis for VAT compensation for enterprises harm the further development of enterprises, prevents the return of funds to circulation costs, before investing in the further work of our industry. I'd like to ask you to support our proposal and set up a committee of 13 people who have been represented by all of our five factions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u195	Will there be questions? Yes. Sign up. Well, let's go six minutes, we can all make it. Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u196	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Undoubtedly, the tax legislation has long been amended. I fully and fully support this idea: we need to get away from the value added tax, which has actually caused, well, some inconveniences in society. In this regard, I would like to recall the story of who was the author of this innovation, because when Ukraine became independent, it was not yet taxed. There were two outstanding figures in Ukrainian history, namely, those who gave out, probably in coffeehouses -- Mr. Pinzenik and Mr. Terehin. It was they who, as advisers to the then Prime Minister of Kuchma, Leonid Danilovich, invented all the filth in which the Ukrainian economy had lived for the first ten years. Therefore, I am certainly very pleased that the Yulia Timoshenko bloc will change.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u197	Please give the opportunity, don't interfere, answer. Leo Vasilovich, come in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u198	Dear friends, excuse me, please! The only thing I can comment on is: Well, today I'm tying the councillors of Kuchma to the line of today's BIT is just not right. And not only on the one hand: we don't know about VAT today, we haven't asked him today about how our pain should be eradicated. That's it. Mr. Boldire and I agree that we've seen such changes a long time ago.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u199	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u200	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear reporter, I was going to say first of all, you are the National MP elected on this first call, today's call. Why, then, are you gently deceiving the entire Supreme Council of Ukraine, claiming that the temporary commission of inquiry submitted to you is relatively representative of all parliamentary factions? There are no Communist factions here. This is the first time. Adam Ivanovich, how long will we continue to practice when to someone who wants to create a temporary commission of inquiry, they make proposals by collecting aliases outside the factions and insisting that the Supreme Council accept such legal acts? That should be the end of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u201	Thank you for asking. I have in my hands, well, the ruling of the Rules Committee, the MP's ethics and the provision of the Supreme Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I've been to this committee twice, which has just been asked a question, this is a settlement, a human settlement. This was not taken once, since the footage was not so placed, the person was brought in, who is already a member of another commission of inquiry. I'm sorry, now. I want to answer you. So I'm going to read it again for you because you didn't hear what I read. The committee says that you have been noted that the draft regulation has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. And in the Rules, so this went down on the Regulatory Committee, I didn't pull him out of the house myself. I think if there's no Communist Party members, factions, and there's no party. We have to add it and that's it. And I'm going to add one figure. I agree. But he was tested on the Standing Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u202	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u203	You know, I want to go on with the subject that we've already talked about, who introduced this tax. At our committee meeting yesterday, the issue of scientific pensions was discussed. And it seems strange that a few months ago the factions of “Our Ukraine” and BUIT collapsed this Law on the Science Pension for Scientists Working in Other Institutions.” It's a temporary commission, it's the same thing we had yesterday at a committee meeting. And I think it would be better not to create a temporary commission but to create a special commission to develop proposals or improve our legislation on mitigation, tax reduction. And that's absolutely right, because this committee is not going to solve any questions in the legislative plan. It's a populist commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u204	Absolutely. I have no right to disrespect your opinion, and I respect it, but the question raised by us is legitimately, it is in accordance with the Rules and we have the right to ask the Council to support and work so that another distortion in our system does not allow us to create shadow budgetary schemes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u205	Pisarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u206	Thank you. Leo Vasilovich, I would like to thank you for your work on this project. This is, indeed, the commission that the Supreme Council needs right now, this is really a shadow tax that needs to be put in place by the Supreme Council, because there are already many people who have become rich on this tax, except for businessmen and entrepreneurs who work in this area. This is how I would like to support my colleague, Mrs. Samolik, about the need not to stop but to continue to view it as a further improvement in legislation on this issue. But let's not forget, honourable representatives of the anti-crisis coalition, that this is, first of all, your credit, which bills are adopted in this room. And also such bills as you refuse to accept, also with respect to tariffs. So, Lev Vasilovich, I would like to thank and invite you once again: how will the results of this commission affect the reduction of tax pressure?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u207	Thank you for asking. I've already called the figure of almost 300 supplements done in 10 years under this law. I think the commission has to correct all distortions in that in different areas, in different regions and independently, believe me, from whoever's doing the administrative line there, we have to make it fair and finally make it in this law or deny it for at least three months, after three months of compensation, and then we don't know what the limit is. This in itself motivates entrepreneurs to go into bribes and use phone rights and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u208	Thank you, Lev Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, from the committee. None. But in principle, you already have a reporter, the author himself said that the committee had considered the issue and recommended a decision. Yes, are there willing to speak in the discussion? Any suggestions? I'm particularly talking to those factions. There'll be no suggestions. Any suggestions? What's the offer? Chechnya, please. Now, now. Chechtov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u209	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to include two National Deputys Vasiliev and Kruglov on this interim commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u210	Vasilyev Aleksandar Andriyovich is part of the commission. Roundlov and Melnik. Yes, I am addressing the drafters. What do you mean, there will be no objection? No, it's not. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I am voting on the decision to be taken in general by adding the names Kruglov and Melnik here. There is a vote on the order of 2439 on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission to examine the reasons for selective tax compensation on added value, the violation by officials of the State Tax Administration of Ukraine and the State Treasury of Ukraine of the taxation of the addition of the two surnames I have mentioned. I'd like to make a statement. [[2:01:02]] For-179 Decision taken. Thank you. We have the following question: a draft Ordinance establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the administration of the added value tax, registration number 2523. But here the authors of Katerinczuk, King of Europe, ask us to postpone the consideration of the issue. I am voting on the proposal to move the number 2523 issue on the establishment of a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on the administration of the tax to the added value at the suggestion of all three drafters of the bill. Please support the transfer of consideration. Vote. [[2:02:01]] For-143 No decision taken. So we'll look at it. Dear colleagues! I've announced a 15-minute extension. I remember everything, we still have 13 minutes. Once again, Catherinechuk, King's Landing, Voropeyev, the drafters of the decree establishing a temporary special commission of the Supreme Council on the administration of the tax to the added value at number 2523 ask to postpone the consideration of the matter. You didn't support him. Maybe you don't get it? Who's in charge of getting back to the vote to move? [[14:03:02]] For the 120th. I mean, no. So you and I need to take a look. Who among the drafters of the bill is ready to report it? There's no one here. Who's in favour of removing the matter from consideration, please vote. [[14:03:49]] For 229 Copy that. A draft Ordinance on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is under consideration to investigate the facts of violations of Ukrainian law and the beating of people during a rally on Kłoczkowska Street, 197 on 16 December 2006 in Kharkiv. Registration number 3156. Glacier Viktor Mikolaiovich, please, the author of the initiative. Get ready for Kowalja.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u211	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! I appeal to you, upon numerous requests from the Harkovchan, concerned that Harkov has become the first criminal capital of Ukraine. This is confirmed by the events that took place on 16 December 2006 in the area of House 197 on Kločkoska Street during a peaceful, so-called, coffee shop, a rally where blood was shed. Unfortunately, they can't show the movie right now, but Adam Ivanovich has what he had in Kharkiv. On 8 February, I sent to the Attorney-General's Office a request for information on the official and the grounds for the termination of the criminal case on the basis of mass unrest. In response to the parliamentary appeal, the Office of the Procurator-General states that the criminal proceedings brought under article 294 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine entitled “Mass riots” are reclassified by the District Prosecutor's Office as hooliganism. [[Part 2 of article 296 of the Criminal Code]] I believe that the case was closed without serious arguments. To date, the Office of the Ukrainian Security Service in Kharkiv Region has sufficient evidence to characterize these events on 16 December 2006 as mass disturbances. In addition, there is evidence to support the organized nature of the crime. This information is not known from official sources. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that mass riots, unlike hooliganism, are organized in a manner that is characterized by impunity and is accompanied by violence against people. According to the law enforcement authorities, 200 participants were identified, of whom about 40 were active, 13 were potentially suspects. Of these, about 40 are 30 victims, of whom 5 are hospitalized in hospital “immediate medical care”. Higher public without. The risk is the actions of the organizers and the active participants in the mass unrest. According to eyewitnesses, the organizers were. First of all, the organizers who did not take any responsibility for these events must be held accountable. The punishment of one case does not give rise to the second, namely, explosions, arsons and the most cynical, detention of a Ukrainian security officer in the performance of his duties. On the other hand, it was a cynical humiliation of a Ukrainian security officer, search for him, search for a car, personal examination and so forth without grounds and causes. It is therefore a demoralization of the Security Service as a whole. In fact, what is happening in Harikov, including events on 16 December, has a relapse and has an impact on a number of parameters of Ukrainian national security. I call on you to deal objectively with the tragic events of 16 December 2006. It is essential that the law enforcement agencies, irrespective of their names, political orientations, address these issues within the framework of the Constitution and the protection of the rights and security of our citizens. Article 3 of the Ukrainian Constitution guarantees the integrity and security of human beings, their lives and health. People who have suffered from mass unrest have no sense of justice and protection from the State. Dear colleagues, with a view to avoiding pressure on law enforcement authorities, in view of the current criminogenic situation in the city of Harkov, I propose the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry into the events on Kloczko Street; an objective and fair assessment of these developments. I hope you'll have your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u212	Thank you. The question is, write it down. [[No, no, there'll be questions.]] Please sign up. Yeah, six minutes. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u213	Thank you very much. First of all, I want the reporter to make a note. On these days we celebrate the day of our native language, and please, you're such a great patriot, why don't you speak the national language? Secondly, why are you dragging us into inter-oligaric excavations in Kharkiv territory? It's no different, and you know it. You, like the poppies of the Gap: you led men to this slaughter, to the slaughter, and now you want to have a political gain from this matter! It is the responsibility of those who deliberately organized this slaughter. And nothing about the Supreme Council of Ukraine and our entire nation and people hostageing your political failure, unfulfilled! There's nothing to bring your questions to the clan here for the Supreme Council session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u214	I thank you for asking. But first, the fact that I'm a Kharkivian and this obliges me to bring this up for consideration by the Supreme Council is the first. Secondly, as head of law enforcement, I have reliable information, everything that happened in Kharkiv. Thirdly, I wasn't there at these events and I was taking people there. And that's what I'm willing to confirm. There's a video, there's a lot of video footage from these events, and if Adam Ivanovich is going to put it now, I recommended watching these videos and giving them a legal evaluation. And I want to remind you, all the national deputies, we have sworn allegiance to the whole of Ukraine. And I'm going to apply, if this committee happens, fairly, we don't depend on what views, it's a criminal matter, not a political one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u215	Thank you. Victor Mikolayovich, let's go to the barter. I'll let you put it in, but the system doesn't pull until now, because there's no amount of energy required. Give energy-- let's show DVDs, the more we've shown. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u216	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Victor Nikolaevich, when you approached me with this question and proposed to support this draft order, I refused. I have one question for you: please tell me, why don't you want to question the level of responsibility of those representatives of the city authorities who have made an improper decision about the land dispossession, i.e. the decision that we have been hearing from the Kharkivs all the time? Why are you the representatives of the oranges, and do you not want to see who has wrongly taken away the land, which has infuriated the citizens for several years? Why don't you ask me that? Because there's the responsibility of the mayor you supported. And it is today that you are initiating and bringing the question to a completely different level.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u217	Alla Alexandrovna, I will answer you this way, we remind you again, we are the people's deputies of Ukraine. And they swore an oath to the whole of Ukraine, so let's not oversold who, what color, because you didn't figure out what color you're in this case. I won't. I said this question would not be dealt with in political terms, not in any way! It cannot be politicized, it must be considered criminally because it is a criminal offence. On the ground, this question will be answered by the Commission of Inquiry. I offered you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u218	Heresy tells Olya. To whom? Celebrity? Olinik Svoslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u219	Victor Mikolaiovich, please tell me what you think of as the author of the legislative initiative if, under these circumstances, where all the circumstances will be recorded in the video and this video will be recorded in the entire country where the beatings were committed, the group beatings of people lying on the ground. This was in the presence of police officers. This video was screened throughout the country in this session hall. If there was a normal legal process under these circumstances, i.e. the competent authorities set up the culprits and today brought them to criminal responsibility, would you be required to speak at this rostrum today with the initiative to create a commission of inquiry and to ask questions about the solution be unnatural, since in this case the criminal process is natural? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u220	First, I was approached by the electorate, by the mothers of the victims who became disabled after the events that took place in Kloczyvský. How can I not react as a national MP? This is the first time. Secondly, if a person who has nothing to do with the law enforcement authorities gives orders to leave this place, we should also give an assessment of the reasons why this person has the right to command or to give such commands to the law enforcement authorities. And these are the questions the investigating commission should answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u221	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u222	I ask you to pass the word to Levchenko Catherine Borisovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u223	Katerina Levechenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u224	Victor Mikolaiovich, first of all, thank you for initiating the establishment of a temporary investigation committee because we have seen evidence of violations of citizens' rights, of the beatings of citizens and of the failure of internal affairs officials to intervene in the criminal investigations that took place in Kharkiv. But I do have a question for you about the state of the criminal case of these facts. Is there a criminal case, or is there an investigation? It's in what condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u225	I've already told you that there is a criminal case under article 294 in mass riots, and it's closed, reclassified by the Kharkiv prosecutor's office for bullying. But it's not bullying, it's mass disorder. There's a lot of evidence in this version. Second, a criminal case against police officers who failed to perform their duties while performing their duties at the scene. And this should also give a legal assessment of why police officers obeyed orders, a man with a criminal record.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u226	Thank you, Victor Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, unfortunately, the committee did not consider, unfortunately, the committee did not consider the matter, so there is no one to report. Matvienkov, there are comments or suggestions. Let's be clear. Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u227	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich and distinguished colleagues, we have one request. In exchange for our colleague Zubko, who is from this district and who knows the situation more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-22-m0.u228	Yes, of course. There's no other offer? What, a faction of Communists, was there a denial about the Incarceration? As Sas will say, so will we. The committee didn't look, and he's the first deputy head of the committee. The committee did not consider and propose that the committee should not be considered without it. Put it to a vote? I am voting on the adoption of Decree 3156 on the establishment of the Interim Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council to investigate the facts of the violation of Ukraine's laws and the beating of people in Kharkiv with a change instead of Zubko Tarasov. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:18:23]] For-149 The decision is not taken. There's a break to 16-0. At 4 p.m., if the committee is ready, we'll listen to the Committee's information on the Rules of Procedure on yesterday's commission for the events that are taking place in the Supreme Council.
