ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, please register in the hall. Please enable the login system. [[10:03:34]] The country’s distinguished national deputies, 412 Ukrainian national deputies, registered in the hall. The morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Dear colleagues, first of all I would like to welcome Philiptchuk Georgiyyyyovich and Schmidt Mikol Olegovich on his birthday. Let's welcome our colleagues. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, all of Santa Claus and all of our country, welcome to the great Santa Claus. [[Applause]] Everyone else remembers that a gift will be given to the children under the pillow. Dear friends, in accordance with article 60 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and according to the minutes of the meeting of the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” of 18 December 2007, I inform you that the head of the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” instead of Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirirovna has been elected Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich. Let us welcome John Grigorovich with a high responsibility. [[Applause]] The deputy head of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” instead of the Turkinov Alexander Valentinovich was chosen as Kožemjakina Andrija Anatoliyovich. Dear colleagues, I'd like us, with your permission, to move on to the agenda. And let me brief you on the arrangements that took place today at the Conciliation Council. We have now decided to start a plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with 30 minutes of factions, and then we will move on to a discussion on the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian people's deputies. After that, I will give you information about the distribution of committees and the appointment of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. And we will have a very important question to discuss -- this is the question of taking the oath of new national deputies who will come in connection with the termination of the powers of those national deputies who are elected to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In view of this, I ask you to sign up for the factions of 30 minutes. Please perform the writing procedure. Dear colleagues, the procedure for recording from the rostrum has been completed. The word is given by Herman Hanni Mikolayivni, a faction of the Party of the Regions. From the rostrum, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u2	Please pass Luke's word, please. With Santa Claus all!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Mrs. Lukas, please speak from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, the honourable ones are present! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we look forward to resolving the question of the responsibilities of those nationals as long as the deputies who received their positions in the government. In accordance with the current legislation, we expected this to be decided yesterday, because article 7 of the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers states that the question of the composition of the National Deputy of Ukraine is addressed immediately after its appointment as a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the same meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Moreover, we have learned that today, in view of the fact that government members will be in charge, you will try to take a break until Tuesday because there will be no coalition. In accordance with the Constitution and the Rules, you need 226 votes. Minus 14 is not there. Why do we have to wait until you get together until every time the Central Electoral Commission registers your deputies? And you know she's got 20 days for this. So maybe we won't work for 20 or 30 days? I urge you not to work destructively today and not to start every week of our work because the Central Electoral Commission will register the missing very quickly so that your 226 Coalition will be artificially preserved. We urge you to reconsider your position and get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u5	Kirilenko Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Above all, our faction welcomes all children of Ukraine and all adults on Santa Claus Day. [[Applause]] And we wish everyone good gifts and good gifts today. Now on with the case. Yesterday, for the third time in principle, the democratic coalition proved itself to be effective. We took three consecutive steps in which our opponents had deep doubts and wished for our failure. We knew about these desires, so we focused as much as possible and took things seriously, despite the fact that we are democratic parties, and there are discussions within us. Yet we make decisions and always move on. We signed the Treaty on the Establishment of a Coalition of Democratic Forces and we announced it almost on the first day of Parliament's work. We have elected the Head of the Supreme Council as the force of the democratic coalition. And yesterday, despite our opposition, we chose a new prime minister and a new democratic government. These three successive steps have demonstrated to both Ukraine and the world that the coalition is effective and is going to continue to fulfill all its obligations to the electorate. We take the next steps that are very important to the country. Above all, it is a step towards the adoption of the new State budget for 2008. This is a serious job that requires concentration not only of the factions of the coalition but also of the factions of the parliamentary minority. And we urge our colleagues from a minority to have this fruitful interaction. However, even after the adoption of the budget on the line, the questions that voters repeatedly told us about during the last election campaign. And we will make every effort to ensure that the new state budget contains all of President Yushchenk's social initiatives, which will lead to an increase in salaries, pensions, aid payments, the maintenance of military personnel and a series of other social benefits. Yet there is no doubt that the new government will face serious economic challenges, and above all, the challenge of overcoming the unprecedented inflation that has been inherited from the previous Cabinet of Ministers. I think we can work together with this challenge. In addition, the following year should surely be the year when the new Tax Code, the new or amended Codex of Budgets, the serious reform of local self - government, and a series of other key decisions will be adopted. Of course, these decisions are possible under the conditions of the government's stable work and its stable interaction with the parliamentary coalition and with the parliamentary minority. We're going to do everything we can to make it happen that way. Although, honourable colleagues, we certainly need to move forward in adopting the following decisions in Parliament. For example, we are willing to vote in behalf of the Head of the Supreme Council, but we are not prepared to compromise our public political principles. We are ready to support today any candidate for the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council from the Party of Regions, either from the largest opposition force or from the “Block of Lithuania”. However, we do not vote in favour of any candidate from the Company of Ukraine, for we do not see any worldwide or arithmetical grounds for this. [[Applause]] And with regard to the termination of the powers of colleagues from the government. Of course, we must follow the letter of the law and we must vote on the decision to terminate the powers of the deputies who have become members of the government. But we urge all members of the CLTC who work at the CLTC under the quota of the parliamentary minority, the Party of Regions, the Communists, to decide on Thursday at the CLTC meeting on the basis of recognition of the nominations of candidates for the National Deputies, which are the following in the lists: “Our Ukraine” – People's Self-Defense and BUIT. And if tomorrow all of a sudden the CEVC is unable to adopt such a decision, then the decision that will be taken today to terminate the powers of the national MPs, with the same success, we can cancel at the next plenary meeting. And I urge everyone to remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u7	Thank you, Viacheslav Anatolyovich. Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u8	Dear voters, members of Parliament! The winds of democracy, of democracy, of the generous promises of improving people’s lives bring in a vast number of officials, for whom there is nothing sacred. Elections are over, pre-election promises are over, and just sitting in a chair, these are all “promising” first of all, acting like predators of the great work of their predecessors, and then they only care for their own well-being. In addition, in order to please the superiors, they manifest themselves in the queen’s corruption of the history of our people, battle with monuments, rename the streets, not isolated phenomena, but mass phenomena. And what my predecessor said today is more simply in political science called “macchartism”. But among these newly discovered Democrats are their uniques, such as the Luben City Head Vasil Korak. I'm giving you such an unheard-of example of celibacy. On December 8, this year, the former secretary of the Luben City Committee of the Communist Party of Ukraine, the longtime city head of Luben, the honorary citizen of Anatoly Mikolayovich Sobolev. And today’s city head, manifesting the highest manifestation of hatefulness, forbids the hiding of this esteemed man in the central cemetery where the deceased is buried. And by the time the tomb was erected by the organ committee, it is on the night of December 8th to this year’s ninth, giving the command to put the grave to sleep. Closes the cemetery, blocks access to this cemetery. And only the intervention of national MPs, Alexander Pavlovich Popov himself, party friends, fellow workers, and individual district leaders were able to bury the man. These are the new winds of democracy that came into our very politics. The question is, where is the limit of immorality in this kind of authority? I have to say that Basil Korak is exactly the active supporter of today's so-called democratic coalition. I would like to warn the people of Ukraine of what lies ahead. Deputies! Respectable citizens! I would like to pay attention today to both my colleagues and our voters, that today's blockade on the work of the Supreme Council, the delaying of this work, is largely linked to the fact that the state itself is facing the greatest affair of modern times -- the sale of land. To prevent the adoption of important laws today, everything is being done to bring this same criminal affair into effect as of 1 January 2008. I would like to say, speaking of this, that this will be the greatest crime in the history of our great state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u9	Thank you. Lásko Oleg Valeriyovich, faction of the “Bloka ulija Timoshenko”. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome all of you to the fact that the period of inter-government has ended in Ukraine, because the inter-government is much worse than the bad authorities. And what we did yesterday by forming a new democratic government is a big step towards order in Ukraine. And I am grateful not only for our colleagues from “Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense” but also for the opposition parliamentary colleagues who took a constructive stand yesterday and gave us the opportunity to form a government that today should work actively to implement its programme. Today, you know, the government is already working early in the morning to propose a draft budget, because we are aware that without the basic economic law, neither the country nor the system of local self-government will feel confident next year. Our faction likewise wants to assure everyone that we view Parliament as the unification of five equal MP factions. And all the principles of our decision will be adopted by the agreement of these five MP factions. It's easier not to meet at a plenary meeting to throw dirt on each other, but to work in factions, or among ourselves, than to discuss here issues that we can't resolve for a few weeks. So our approach is next. If, today, we have not agreed to the optimal version of First Deputy and Deputy, Heads of Committees, we can allow factions to work out such a decision-making mechanism for all factions to vote for it. We are convinced that there should be no conflict in Parliament between the majority and the minority, there should be a struggle in Parliament for the national interests that all political forces have promoted and advocated. So once again, I would like to say that today the faction will vote in favour of the termination of the powers and for the decisions made by the Conciliation Council, with the only warning that our colleague Viacheslav Kirilenko spoke about, we should be assured that by Tuesday the Central Electoral Commission will meet at its meeting, that it will be clear that the relevant decisions will be adopted and that the new national deputies will fill in the composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that as of Tuesday, Parliament will be working actively, because it is not just the expectations of the people's deputies, but the expectations of the Ukrainian society. And finally, on behalf of the faction, and from yourself, which you know, is called Santa, who was born in December, to tell all the parents, because here are both grandparents and grandparents, and parents, so that you don't forget that history tells us that Santa Claus was a good and just man. So do not forget to do good and just work for your children and grandchildren. With a holiday!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich, Lithuanian Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u12	Please pass the word to colleague Baranov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u13	Please, the word of Baran.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I am first-elected as a national deputy, so I apologize for speaking Russian, but I will study Ukrainian hard. To tell you the truth, I'm surprised at what happens to us in the Supreme Council, and I want to say that all of Ukraine today is holding on to the work of local governments, and if city district councils were working like the Supreme Council, I'd tell you honestly, we would have been buried by chickens for a long time. That is why I call on everyone to cooperate. I succeeded or had to work for 10 years as mayor of the city of Berdjanska and all the joys and sorrows of our Ukrainian reality I had to carry on my shoulders. And we have worked and received results, not thanks, but only contrary to our existing system in the State. This system is vicious and unsuspecting, it is completely useless, it needs radical reform. There is a set of systemic measures that eradicate the root causes of our problems and put an end to the fight against consequence, but there has always been a lack of political will. Today, there is a conflict between several individuals who have become a country-wide disaster, a crisis of governance, and a chronic fight against consequence. There is no objective and no mechanism for achieving it. Populism and intrigue are flourishing. I have always looked forward to the presentation of the Roads and Challenges Concept, their priority and the necessary new legislation. I have even read the entire ninety-seven pages of the coalition deal and have come to admire the uniqueness of this document. I saw a set of original slogans: raise, improve, develop, strengthen, seek, promote, secure, overcome. He found out that there was some sort of tripartism going on, which would probably be good for the workers and the peasants, and he'd obviously be saddened by the business, because he promised to share other people's incomes again. I propose to the future or the current Government by means of professional and professional resources to develop a serious, literacy-specific programme of work. What do we have in common? Our Parliament is not united, the programme of action is non-systematic, inconclusive and does not answer any questions that arise. Has the staff experience of the past years not failed? At that time, the President made a hard assessment of the work and took radical measures. Our Block of Lithuania believes that the main tasks or nodes, without which nothing will change, are the following in our country. First. We need to be clear about what we're building. A communist or market economy. When we respond, we either stop playing with prices and tariffs, stop commanding private businesses, or continue to turn business into a shadow and turn investors away from us. That's a key question. Second. It is necessary to review the governance structure of the State by defining the structure and sub-functions of the Constitution and to eliminate the central administrative system, the main cause of corruption and the obstacle to the development of the initiative. Third. There is a need to create incentives for the development of the economy, the basis of social policies and the fulfilment of all the challenges that lie ahead. There's a whole set of problems. Tax policy change. Simplification of permit mechanisms and others. First of all, this is an increase in the income of the population and an increase in wages of up to thirty per cent. If we do not decentralize finance and transfer resources to the field, nothing in our country will change. We need to revise the Budget Code and eliminate existing tender legislation. We all promised to eliminate the system and establish real self-government, but to this day I do not see any movement in this direction. And to develop priority reforms: JCCs, medicine, social policies. This would be a systematic approach to addressing the causes of the protracted crisis. It is foolish to fight poverty or corruption that the causes of these phenomena need to be addressed. What do we have to unite today? The block of Lithuania proposes to unite around matters, about what I am talking about. The Government should begin the development of an integrated reform programme by a force of specialists, not by populists and politicians. This is a chance to work together in unity for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u15	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we have completed the factions and I would like to return to the order of today's meeting of the Supreme Council and to the arrangements reached at the Conciliation Council. Yesterday when I asked about the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I read to you a number of legislative and regulatory rules regarding the termination of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies elected to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to remind you of the existence of a legal coalition. On the one hand, article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers clearly defines the need for consideration, not adoption, but consideration of the question of the suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies elected to the Cabinet of Ministers without delay. I would like to point out that all the Ukrainian national deputies who were elected to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have filed applications for a permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. These statements were registered yesterday. And every person, including national MPs, can see copies of these statements on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As I promised you yesterday, it happened. Thus, no claim directly to persons who are elected to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is and cannot. On the other hand, we have article 217 of the Supreme Council Rules and the Constitution, which provides for a preliminary consideration of the matter on the committees. Yesterday, I promised that if committees were to be formed today, namely, the Regulatory Committee including the Committee, and we would quickly proceed through the committee, then under such circumstances the question of the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies would be carried out quickly and in full compliance with the Rules. In view of the fact that, again today, unfortunately, the leaders of the MP factions have not reached a final agreement on the appointment of the first deputies and deputy heads of the respective committees, we are not able to conduct this procedure through the committee. I think it will be correct, and when we sign the corresponding protocol unanimously on Friday, we move in a daytime manner that we have decided and voted on Friday, namely, the permanent cessation of the powers of the national deputies. In doing so, we will actually do an ad-hok procedure, i.e. we will move away from article 217 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and, without due consideration and the falling of the regulatory committee, we will today consider the question of the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. What position would I like to express that was discussed, and yesterday evening I found the head of the Central Electoral Commission, and which is extremely important and substantive in the future work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? The point is that, in accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”, the Central Election Commission should decide to register new national deputies in view of the fact that 14 national deputies have ceased their duties on a permanent basis. This is about the formation of a full constitutional composition of the Supreme Council, namely, we should make an additional 14 vows. All the leaders of the political factions have expressed their political will not to want to block the work of the Central Electoral Commission. And yesterday, after my negotiations with the head of the Central Electoral Commission and with his agreement, I would like to inform you that a meeting of the Central Electoral Commission is scheduled for tomorrow for 14 hours, on the issue of the registration of new deputies, new national deputies, in accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies. It would be very important to have the political commitment of all the factions whose members are represented or, sorry, who have delegated their representatives to the Central Election Commission for the coordinated and legitimate work of the Central Electoral Commission in the decision-making process for the registration of new national deputies. I would like to point out that yesterday, at a meeting of the Conciliation Board, the head of the Janukovic Party of the Regions, Viktor Fedorovich, gave political assurances not to block the work of the Central Electoral Commission and to the need for a speedy admission to the oath of Ukraine's new national deputies. It's stenographic, and I think it's highly appreciated by all the other factions. Dear colleagues, the Conciliation Council has made the next decision that I want to make for your consideration. It's number one. We finally need to complete the formation of the governing bodies. I would like to point out that, according to the agreement, and more specifically to the protocol signed on Friday, the formation of the governing bodies is carried out solely on a consensus basis. And as Head of the Supreme Council, I made a political commitment not to make any draft decision on the formation of the governing bodies unless there were five signatures of the factions. To this day, I do not have any of these regulations: neither the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council nor the Deputy, nor the Committees. Yesterday, we actually shared the fact: the head of the committee, the first deputy head of the committee, and the secretary of the committee. The distribution went through, except for two committees that are so called conditionally divided, but I think within two days they'll still complete the process of this division. Second block. They're deputy committee heads. According to article 34 of the Ukrainian Law on Committees, the number of deputies depends on the personal size of a committee. Unfortunately, not all factions have personal numbers again. One of the largest factions has never submitted a final personal number. So I'm going to be the next one. The faction of the Party of the Regions is the largest faction, if anyone doesn't know, I'll say it again. So in view of this, we have the next proposal from the members of the Conciliation Council. First, we're taking a day-to-day schedule that we're taking a break from organizing committee work by Tuesday. On Tuesday, we begin paragraph one, which is the formation of an oath by Ukraine's new national deputies. After that, we are voting today to suspend the powers of the national deputies so that I can sign the decree and pass it on to the CLTC, and the CLTC has considered it, and so we complete the agenda and move on to work on the organization of committee work. I ask the voting procedure to sign up for the speech. Five minutes, please. Let's get out of here. Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich “Block of Lithuania”. Please. Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, to be honest, there's no legal co-operation. Because the Cabinet of Ministers Act has an undeniable legal supremacy -- and everyone understands that -- over the Rules. Because the Rules are a decree. The Collision is when there is a flow or variation in one law. Therefore, the law must be enforced, and this is a basic legal package. One second. Of course, there are no committees yet. But when all five factions signed the agenda, they knew that the committees did not exist, but they agreed with this sequence of consideration of the issues they agreed to. I don't think it's worth it if you have to look at things that are convenient and those that aren't convenient not to look at them, motivated by the fact that there are no committees. Once again, everyone signed the order, knowing there were no committees. I think there's two things to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u18	Please give Popescu the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u19	The word is passed on to Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u20	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, Your Honourable Chairman! First of all, you just told the coalition that we need to develop a budget. In order to develop a budget, to submit to the Supreme Council, we need to select the Committee from the budget as quickly as possible, and you have also talked about the Committee from the Rules. If we take a break today, we'll spend this time. It is better to take a 30 - minute break and finally resolve these issues with the two committees. This is the first nuance. Second, we must urgently vote for the Ukrainian people's deputies who have become members of the Cabinet of Ministers to conclude their terms of office, and tomorrow the Central Election Commission will take the oath of new deputies. We're going to have a full warehouse, we're going to move forward. We stand against the break to work for the people of Ukraine. We're for a construct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u21	Thank you. Zabuc Roman Omelyanovich, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Zabulek Roman Omelyanovich, not Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. Please turn on Zabzaluka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u22	I give the word to Kirilenka, Ivan Grigrovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u23	The word of Kirilenko is passed on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, dear Arsenia Petrovich! I want to draw the attention of all the colleagues in the room that we've shown for the last two days that a constructive, coherent work has begun in the hall. And we thank the factions that are in the minority today. Thank you for supporting the constructive work. We're set in the same way. And we'll follow the next day's schedule. The fifth point is clear; we will vote for it. But Arsenius Petrovich. I am addressing you, Arsenija Petrovich, we would like to hear the political guarantees, as you said. I would like, and my colleagues from the faction and the coalition would like to hear again Victor Fedorovich, who said clearly yesterday that during the period of the Central Election Commission, which today is mostly formed by opposition, will undoubtedly hold a meeting and register the new national deputies who will be sworn in here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u25	Thank you, Ivan Grigorovitch. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u26	Simonenko, Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, on another occasion today, we have the opportunity, as we analyze our work, to say that conditions dictate, with the orange coalition constantly breaking the law. The Law provides for the term of appointment of national deputies. It's the Cabinet of Ministers Act. Today, new conditions are emerging. That's the first one. It's different. Indeed, we have Makcartism in the Supreme Council, for you do not know the meaning of the conversation that takes place on the Conciliation Council when it is forbidden to post a practically candidate from the Company as the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Third. I stress again for our radio and television audiences. The work block, the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, will take place by the beginning of January in view of the fact that it is the representatives of the orange team who want to do what they promised: sell the land.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u27	Let me finish. Don't you have to finish? You don't have to. Next up is Stratovic, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u28	Vladimir Stretović, "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense", Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Respectable colleagues, respected radio listeners, cannot be allowed to foresee in law all the incidents that occur in the fast-moving process of Parliament's work. Today, we have faced the challenge of putting an end to the powers of our fellow MPs, who have become ministers. Today's issue is absolutely correct, which requires the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and we're going to take this step. However, I would like to point out that we have a Central Election Commission -- an organ that is formed 50 by 50 -- and there may be a kind of political lockout when part of the Central Electoral Commission refuses to recognize the powers of 14 national deputies. This will result in an appropriate attempt on the parliamentary coalition, and the coalition will lose 14 votes. So, Arsenija Petrovich, I would like to hear once again the assurances of the political power of the Party of Regions that all their members of the electoral commission will take part in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u29	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for discussion is over. With your permission, I'd like to sum it up. The first item is that of the agenda. I would like to assure all the national MPs that we are not departing from those agreements that were previously agreed upon. If we are in line with the day-to-day question of the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian people's deputies, we will certainly vote because this is a requirement of an article of the law, despite the direct violation of article 217 of the Rules and 89 articles of the Constitution, which provides, in fact, for any decision to be taken by the Supreme Council solely for the existence of formed committees of the Supreme Council. Therefore, we would not want to discuss the existence of a legal coalition. It really does exist. But for the sake of the purity of the experiment, all the Ukrainian national MPs have filed applications and we will vote on this issue today. The second item is that of political guarantees. The request of the majority factions for political assurances not to block the work of the Central Electoral Commission is absolutely adequate and objective. Because it's about political guarantees. What's more, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, I repeat, yesterday I gave such political assurances at the meeting of the Conciliation Council. Could I ask you to sign up now for 30 seconds from the factions about the Central Electoral Commission's work. Wait a minute. I'm requesting statements from the factions 30 seconds after the Central Electoral Commission. Let's get out of here. Please. Sign up for the performance. I'm asking you not to interfere with your head. Let's get out of here. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u30	Dear Mr. Head! I'm very sorry that you don't understand that the Central Election Commission is an independent body. And even our leader can't control it. We never violate that word, and you know it, but we can't step on the throat of democracy, giving some assurance that we will run the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u31	Thank you. Samuel Catherine Seminovna, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u32	The Honourable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! We can even sign up after that for 30 seconds and discuss how the President of Ukraine will work on these weekends, what he will do, what questions he will solve. Why are you leading the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine into absurdity? Why, please explain, continue to destroy the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the supreme democratic legislative body of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u33	Ivy Ivan Stepanovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u34	Thank you. Arsen Petrovich! I suggest you just follow not only the logic, but the principle. You announced for two days what you agreed to on the Conciliation Council and there was an agreement in this package, and it was in this package that we were going to vote yesterday after the election of the government for deputizing those who entered the government. And why do you provoke the work of the Central Electoral Commission, so how will it come together, how will it decide? It's just not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u35	Olinik Svetoslav Vasilovich, Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u36	Please give the floor to Kirilenka, Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u37	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! And once again, I point out that we started to work constructively on the basis that we have a conciliatory board of factions leaders. And yesterday it was clearly stated that we are prepared to give such guarantees from the rostrum, because the Central Electoral Commission is formed on a political basis and you know it very well, colleagues. And you know what this is about. We ask that Victor Fedorovich confirm the words he said yesterday, and we vote immediately, 100 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u39	Poor Mikhailo Dmitrovic, Block Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u40	Dear colleagues! The Lithuanian Block confirms that the agreements reached by the leaders of the five factions have not been implemented and are now being broken up unilaterally. And this is strongly influenced by Parliament’s authority if it still remains in the eyes of our electorate. Secondly, the Lithuanian Block will submit appropriate legislation to prohibit politics, a quota principle in the formation of the Central Electoral Commission and the Constitutional Court. We've all become hostages of this, I'm sorry, not a very reasonable proportional principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u41	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I did the will of the faction leaders present on the Conciliation Council today. It is not the initiative of the Head of the Supreme Council to discuss the issue of CBC. And I would ask the heads of factions to inform their national deputies of what agreement we have reached, so that then the Supreme Council of Ukraine will not make an extreme, that is to say. And now for the formation. So on the Conciliation Council, the next decision is made, and I'm going to put it to the vote. It's number one. The next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to announce on Tuesday at 10 a.m. and to begin by taking an oath by Ukraine's new national deputies. From the voting procedure, if you wish, please for five minutes, if you don't, I'll put the matter to the vote. You want out of the procedure, Peter Mikolaiovich? Okay. I ask you to sign in with the voting procedure, five minutes. We will continue to consider the question of putting an end to the powers of the national deputies. Please, Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I propose that there be no rescheduling, of those agreements that have been accepted at the Conciliation Council, I suggest that you abide by what you have agreed. If you suddenly leave and put to the vote the question of the transfer to Tuesday's plenary session, I propose to vote, as you voted yesterday, by the hands of 150 signatures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u43	Welder Roman Mikhailovich. “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u44	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would like to express very clearly the position of our faction. First. We vote in favour of suspending the powers of our colleagues who have moved to the government. Secondly, we confirm that we will influence those representatives from our political power, who are members of the Central Electoral Commission, to comply with the direct requirement of the law, and to register the following candidates from the National Deputies list that are on our list. And thirdly, we insist that other political forces that have delegated their representatives to the Central Electoral Commission give appropriate assurances that I have just sounded.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u45	Sivullski Mikola Ivanovich "Clock of Yulia Timoshenko".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u46	Please pass the word to John Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u47	John Kirilenko's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u48	Dear colleagues! Dear Arseny Petrovich! I won't say anything new except what was said to me, and to my last colleague, Roman Zvaric. There are allegations that no one is going to have a double morality. Your statements are registered, we are ready to vote now, but for the third time, we ask our colleagues to give political assurances that the work of the Central Electoral Commission will not be delayed. They're gone! Arsenija Petrovich, we will have to ask you to postpone this vote to Tuesday if we do not receive such political guarantees. We're not voting today. We will vote on Tuesday when we have a complete understanding of how we will act.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u49	Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich, "Block Lithuania"
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u50	Dear colleagues! Once again, I'm convinced that the faction of our block is in the right position. Because there's a competition going on, who's in charge. It has come to the point that we today require assurances from each other as to what decision the Central Election Commission should make. I think we've gone to the country, which reminds me of Shevchenk's famous words: “Travel in truth, and they change their chains” or vice versa. That's the first one. The other one. We at the Conciliation Council have decided that the Supreme Council will now consider depriving our colleagues of their parliamentary powers who have moved to the executive structures of power. So let's look at this issue and implement the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which was adopted by the opposition and the coalition at the same time, and I'll remind you that after the appointment of members of the government, at the same meeting, on the same day, the issue of de-authorization is being considered and taken up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u51	Let me finish Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u52	And once we make a decision on the implementation of our agreement on the waiver of parliamentary powers, we will determine when to continue the meetings and make the appropriate decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u53	Gordijenko Sergey Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u54	Please pass the word to Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u55	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u56	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think we all understand that the representatives of the orange team are like "political elements" today. Yesterday they lived by one law, today they ignore these laws, they reject them once more, and, like a breath, they only turn back to the side in which they are comfortable. And you and I know very well that it is the Cabinet of Ministers Act that provides for the immediate establishment of powers by the national deputies of those who have gone to work for the government. This is a waste of time to show that with this orange team in general, we're going to have a very big problem in the Supreme Council. They will never adhere to the words that they have given, nor will they follow the laws. There's no Constitution for them, there's no laws for them, there's one thing for them: what they've done, they've always done it -- a scenario that was followed yesterday by an election process. We saw that the ambassador of the United States.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u57	Time's up. Honorable National MPs. I'd like to go back to the Conciliation Council decision. And first of all, I'm talking to the faction leaders. The point is that we left the Conciliation Council thirty minutes ago and there were no disagreements, except for the faction of the Party of the Regions, which indicated that there was no need for a break until Tuesday. All the other faction leaders supported the decision. It's number one. I'll be off by Tuesday. Item two. Start with an oath. And paragraph three. Today, vote in favour of putting an end to the powers of the national deputies. I find it difficult to understand what the discussion is about. Today, the question of the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies will be considered. And none of the factions can deny it, as it was decided by all faction leaders. There was no objection at all. At the request of two faction leaders, I asked questions about political guarantees. It is objectively understood that the political guarantees for the activities of the CLTC cannot be given directly by factions such as the CLTC by law is an independent body. But there are requests for such factions and at the same time an MP, let me give the floor without voting to the MP Pecklesenko who has, who wants to make a statement from the faction of the Party of the Regions. Is there no objection? None. Deputy Hellhound, please. Colleagues, Mikola Yanovich, Deputy Paklusenko. Aah! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u58	On behalf of the faction of the regions, on behalf of the leader of the faction Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, I am authorized to state that the Party of the Regions has always been consistent with the laws, implementation and arrangements. Everything with regard to our representatives in the CLTC will be in accordance with the law and in accordance with the commitments we have made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u59	Thank you. So, colleagues, we're practically in agreement, I'm asking that we drop the charges, because it feels like we don't hear each other, because we agree on the Conciliation Council. I'm asking you to give me another chance: It's number one. Let us put to the vote, break until Tuesday, and start Tuesday from the oath of the National Deputies. Item two. The end of the powers of the national deputies and then the end of the story by Tuesday. Thus was the Conciliation Council. I can't change the decision of the Conciliation Board. Let's do it again, or we're going to the Conciliation Board meeting again, or we're going to vote. I ask you to put to the vote the question of the announcement of a recess by Tuesday and the beginning of Tuesday, from the formation of an oath by the Ukrainian people's deputies. Please turn the system on. Please. [[10:55:20]] For-126 The decision is not taken. I must now put to the vote the question of the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian people's deputies. On the list. I can't do that, guys! That he raised his hand? Well, there's a way. There's an order. Well, the hands will light up. The reason for the vote is five minutes, please sign up. Let's take a vote. Chechtev, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u60	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Arsenius Petrovich, you have quite rightly started the session and have said quite correctly that any document that is being considered in Parliament should pass through the committee. But in order to maintain this constructive course of work of Parliament, you have proposed that the first question of power-building should be voted on, and the corresponding guarantees have been given for subsequent decisions. Once again, after several discussions, we came up with this normal constructive decision, the previous vote showing the correctness of it. That's why we don't have to give up. We must stop any discussion and put to the vote the question of terms of reference, vote. Well, it will be further seen how constructive the majority today is, especially since serious decisions must be taken jointly by the entire Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u61	Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich, "Block of Lithuania".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! There is no problem at all, because the session room voted in favour of the agenda, where there is a clear sequence of issues. No one changed that order. And no Conciliation Council can change what the Supreme Council of Ukraine voted for. This is the first moment. One second. It is quite clear that the Conciliation Board had little to say about the fact that first the powers were withdrawn, and the national deputies of Ukraine were made up. This is natural and logical. And then the question or the question of the next break is discussed. It seems to me that there is some mistrust among colleagues about themselves, their ability and their corporate ability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u63	Najonov Andry Mihailovich Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u64	Please give the floor to Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u65	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u66	Simonenko's Communist faction. The Communist faction requires compliance with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws, in this case the Cabinet of Ministers Act. And yesterday we were still required to vote on the Kabmin composition, and to vote on the resignation of those who had become members of the Cabinet of Ministers. We will now be with you once again as the orange coalition violates both the Constitution and the law. And I'm sure they won't vote now. Why? Because they are well aware that they must now delay withdrawing these powers because the work will not be stable in the future of the same Kabmin, that many issues arise from conflicts within the coalition and the President. That is to say, this begins a very serious period of testing for the strength of the Supreme Council, first and foremost, with regard to the rule of law. The faction demands a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u67	Katerinczuka Mikola Dmitrovic, by Knazević Ruslan Petrovic. Be a lioness, Ruslan Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u68	Please pass on the word Knjazević.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u69	Dear Arsené Petrovich, I would like to draw your attention to a rather serious body of laws on the election of national deputies. The point is that article 101 of the People's Deputies Act states that the Central Election Commission may decide to register members only before the sixth day following the decision. More specifically, the proper decision of the Supreme Council. In addition, there is a case that such a decision may be brought before a court of law, and then they may only consider it after the relevant court decision has been made. So we're willing to vote for this decision today if the Central Election Commission considers this matter accordingly not later than Tuesday, because tomorrow they can't deal with it. If they are willing to consider it, let us say, on the morning of Tuesday morning, we make a commitment in the afternoon of Tuesday at the evening meeting to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u70	Bondarenko Volodymyr Dmitrovic, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u71	Vladimir Bondarenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear friends, those who have worked in parliaments of the past, know that one of the factions that is unfortunately the greatest today has demonstrated its position more than once. It is roughly stated in this phrase: “Badness will not leave, it will hurt itself.” So I think the best thing to do is to make a decision from the CLTC as a guarantee that the agreements we're talking about will be met. Today, it is the desire to break the coalition by refusing to allow people to come to replace the officials who were sitting next to us. So it seems that any demagogy coming from this faction is not a guarantee. And we have something to do today. Let this faction present, for example, its candidates to the committees, because they're talking about hiring someone, and so far they've not made any proposals for committee membership, which is why the work of the Supreme Council is deliberately stopped. And the demagogic statements of what someone is doing indicate that this faction is not only a word but also a work that cannot be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. Let me sum it up. I'd like to go back again. A clear consideration will be given to the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies elected to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I would like to ask you not to repeat five times about violations of rights that no one is violating. There's a agenda that's been approved, and we're going to be looking into it. Today the issue of swearing by our new colleagues was discussed in the Hall in order for the Supreme Council to be in full constitutional order. And it seems that this discussion is substantive, it's happening in this room for the first time. And I would like to point out that, in principle, the Rules do not provide for a mechanism for the inclusion of national MPs who have emerged from the Cabinet of Ministers into the coalition of MP factions, as it foresees only if there is exclusion, not permanent termination of powers. I mean, we're back here on the face of a legal colossal. In order for everything to be exclusively in a consensus order, in order to preserve, firstly, the interests of minorities, in order to implement the Cabinet of Ministers Act and to form a fully constitutional composition of the Supreme Council and to take the oath of our 14 colleagues, the two factions asked for a recess – this is the "Julia Timoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine". I ask all the heads of factions to rise on the 3rd floor for the Conciliation Council. And it's gonna be okay. 30 minutes according to the Rules. Colleagues, we need to know the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our morning plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We concluded the meeting of the Conciliation Council. I'll brief you. The main subject of the discussion was: what should be put forward — the question of the suspension and the decision to take the oath of the National Deputies as the first item of the agenda of the next meeting, or the question of the termination of the powers? No one discussed the inadequacy of considering the termination of powers. Therefore, those who have taken the defence of the already adopted decision would like to point out once again that no one has refused and refused to, as is the case with all factions, has been signed unanimously by all the leaders, and, more than that, fully complies with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act. At the request of the faction leaders, I'd like to give you one minute to speak out, and then we'll move on to the voting procedure. I want to sign up for the performances from the place more frackingly. Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, “Litvina Block”, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u74	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u75	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, we have a strange situation: we vote on the agenda first, we agree with it, and when a decision is made, each party feels that it has fulfilled its obligations. We insist that we now need to consider depriving our colleagues of their powers who have moved to work in executive structures of power. Then announce a break in the work of the Supreme Council in order to organize the committee’s work as well as for the Central Election Commission to decide on a new replenishment of the deputy corps. Everything else is from the evil one, everything else is juggling the Constitution, laws and regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We suggest that we move in line with the decision we make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u77	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u78	Yuri Carmazin. Please give the word to the leader of the Viacheslav Kirilenko faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u79	Please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u80	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues, we are certainly ready to vote in favour of suspending the powers of our colleagues who are now working in the government. At the same time, we would like to solve the matter as quickly as possible with regard to the recognition by the deputies of the following list. So after the consultation has just taken place, we are now making a decision: to vote for the suspension of the powers of the national deputies of the two factions that are now working from yesterday in the government. But we would ask for the support of all the MPs so that we can decide that the next parliamentary session will begin only after the Central Electoral Commission meeting, which will recognize the credentials of colleagues on our lists. In that case, we are ready to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u81	Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u82	Dear colleagues, our faction reaffirms its readiness to work constructively in Parliament as soon as possible. And the constructiveness of the work is that we have to be sure that the Central Electoral Commission will review the submission of all 14 new national deputies who will sit here in the Supreme Council quickly and in accordance with actual legislation, and Parliament will work fully. So we will support the decision on the need for the early termination of the powers of the people's deputies who have become members of the government, provided that the Supreme Council makes the same decision, that the next meeting of the Supreme Council will begin after the relevant decision of the CWC to register all 14 national deputies and to take them into office. In that case, we will support the proposed decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u83	Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u84	Please give the floor to the leader of the faction of the Party of the Regions, Victor Fedorovich Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u85	The word is given to Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u86	Party of regions, Yanukovich. Dear colleagues, what's happening today is the result that the coalition has broken down the vote in favour of suspending the powers of the national MPs. She did it knowingly. And I would like to draw your attention, Arsenia Petrovich, to the fact that the order of the day that is approved is your duty. And when we discuss this issue, we discussed it yesterday, we are discussing today, we are concluding that the coalition has no confidence in its future. And we know that. That's why our colleagues, they, of course, fell on an electric chair. They don't know whether to give them authority or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u88	But we understand that very well. Therefore, the issue of the day’s order is unalterable. He needs to be voted. As far as warnings are concerned, they are, but we should not be compared to those who have broken the laws for more than six months, starting with the opening of the early elections in Ukraine. Don't compare us to you, dear fellows! We are sure to keep our word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u89	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to give the floor to the Communist faction, the Snare Sergey Anatolyovich. The word is given by Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u90	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to address our respected radio audiences, televised people. Today, the coalition is translating its problems into the entire Supreme Council. They were unable to predict how the developments would take place. And the nominations to the Government, of course, today, putting new conditions before us, have almost paralysed the activities of the Supreme Council deliberately. And I want everyone to understand what this is all about. What is recorded or proposed is a new condition for the activities of CFC, after consideration, but the influenza epidemic is going on, people are sick, people will not be there. If problems arise, it turns out that the activities of the Supreme Council are deliberately paralysed because of the 14 deputies delegated by the coalition to the Government. Thus, they spent almost billions on elections and again today on pocket money.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u91	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! In view of that, I would like the following. Let Petra Mikolaiovich finish the sentence. Please, Reverend Peter Mikolaiovich, 10 seconds. Colleagues! I ask that we treat each other with tolerance!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u92	Therefore, once again by means of a voter's pocket, the orange team today solves only its own personal issues, not public, not national and not national. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u93	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! I'm asking respect for each other if it takes another 10 seconds for nothing to happen in ten seconds to continue with one or the other national MP. It's a normal practice. I ask respect and silence in the hall! Colleagues! And so, we go back to what we agreed on. The issue of order of the day will now be considered with regard to the termination of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. The Conciliation Council unanimously supported the decision on the matter: first - name consideration of the matter. And the second. All factions have given assurances that they will vote in favour of the decision to adjourn the Supreme Council until the Central Electoral Commission meets and executes its powers in accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of People's Deputies, namely the registration of new national deputies on the relevant list. A decision has also been made on the first issue of the agenda at the next plenary session, which is the making of an oath by the newly elected, or more specifically by the new national deputies of Ukraine. I would like to point out that today, colleagues, there were no violations of the agreements that were signed on Friday. It was just one thing, a point that we all forgot on Friday, namely the formation of an oath by the national deputies. Formally and legally, according to the 20th, paragraph 4 of the Rules, the issue of oaths is included in the agenda without discussion and without further discussion. So I would ask that we have no speculation in the part where someone was moving away from some arrangement. That unanimous decision, which was signed by the Ukrainian national deputies for the first time, by the way, in this room, is a guarantee of further work of our consolidated work. Therefore, the question of ceasing powers will be voted upon. Now, for the reasons of the vote, Ivan Grigorovitch, I'm sorry. Now the role and place, including the Head of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, I officially declared from this rostrum that, in the event that a regulatory committee, as defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and including our decision and 217 of the Rules, applications for the suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian people's deputies would be referred to the regulatory committee and then submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration. If not, I will personally make a decree to terminate the powers of the national deputies. From the folder. Now, on registration, 14 decrees to terminate the powers of the national deputies. Let's be true to each other. Thus, the procedure for the registration of these regulations is now under way and 14 decrees will be issued to each of you to terminate the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies. We will then have a procedure to form the agenda for the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, once again stressing the legal formula, which will take place after the meeting of the CWC and the registration of the new national deputies. From paragraph 1 of the agenda on the oath of new Ukrainian national deputies. From the voting procedure 10 minutes before the Supreme Council's apparatus reproduces the decree to terminate the powers of the national deputies. Please make a statement 10 minutes out of the procedure. Bondarenko Volodymir Dmitrovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u94	I'd like to give the floor to Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u95	Please, the word of Sasu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! I would like to pay attention to the following circumstances. According to part of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the working order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is established by the Constitution and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to references to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which. I would like to say that according to 217 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council, which are addressed to each other by article 5 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, on the order in which the powers of the People's Deputy are terminated, the matter may be considered within ten days of the submission of the Rules Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u97	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u98	Thank you. Therefore, in view of these circumstances, our faction requests that the next steps of the Supreme Council be considered in the Supreme Council for a recess until the next Tuesday. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u99	Colleagues, I wanted to consult with your permission. According to the Rules, we've got a break at 12 o'clock. From 12 to 12.30. In just 30 minutes, they're going to be multiplying the draft decree I've made to stop the parliamentary powers. I'm asking that we be on a break at 12 o'clock, now, as the Rules require. At 12:30 p.m., the next meeting. Guys, let's start with your performances, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u100	the suspension provided for by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During that time, the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s apparatus multiplied and handed out to all national deputies a highly respected draft of the Supreme Council’s Order. Whoever doesn't gets it, I've got all the registration numbers. Colleagues, I'm asking you to keep us calm. Peter Mikolaiovich, everything will be as you command, everything will be done, you know. There can be no other position in relation to the Communist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to sit in the hall, because we will now have a procedure for voting on extremely important issues of the agenda, starting with the termination of the mandate and ending with the formation of the order of the next session. I'm asking the tech to take two or three minutes while our colleagues take up the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u101	They're handing out. I beg you, who do we have? Alexandrovska, that's her word. Please, Mrs. Alexandrovska. Turn on the microphone, it's Carmazin. Please turn on Alexander’s microphone while the materials are being distributed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u102	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arsenius Petrovich, we have not yet read the draft regulation, but at least I want to respond to the proposals you have made in person. The thing is, we can't make the Supreme Council a hostage of external circumstances. Therefore, I understand that someone wants a certain logic of action to be realized. But this logic of action should not be dangerous to the existence of the Ukrainian Parliament, we cannot decide that the Supreme Council will, again, come to the meeting or consider the matter after something has happened outside the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, do you understand? That something might not happen outside the walls of the Supreme Council, and that's when we come up with our own decision, we don't go to the session, and we don't start working. That is why we must comply with the law; we must today vote on the resignation of those deputies who have become ministers and after the documents corresponding to other deputies have been submitted, to take an oath here in the Supreme Council and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u103	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u104	Yuri Carmazin. Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! I have a wish for the Conciliation Council. Please see if these actions are consistent with the Constitution, which provides for 20 days, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy – 20 days provides for the removal of the MP who is elected to the government, and then to refer to the Law on the Government that I have asked about the need to cancel it, because it is he who destroyed the situation. I would like to suggest, Mr. Head, that the question should be put to the vote first, i.e. on the break for Tuesday, and then the vote for removal and removal should be with a time-limit so that there is no epidemic, and I would very much like for the CIA to work well and to trust each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u105	Thank you. Pavlenko Sergey Grigorovitch, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u106	Sergey Pavlovenko, Lithuanian Block faction. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, the Lithuanian "Block of Lithuania" faction has been set up for constructive work from the very beginning. Therefore, first, we insist that the question of ceasing parliamentary powers be voted upon. And the second. You're always breaking the rules in your line of work. As a result of this and at the request of the twenty - nineth article in part one of the first Rules, and by taking advantage of the occasion, I make my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u107	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u108	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! We, the Communist faction, once we draw your attention, warn against inconsistent, and, return, illegal, non-regulatory actions in the walls of Parliament. And what's going on here, for our voters, I want to explain again. The work of the Supreme Council is being blocked, on the basis that Yushchenko and his orange team have undertaken to trade land since 1 January. They are now tasked with blocking the decision of the Supreme Council to extend the moratorium on trade in land. In this situation, with the first of January, the vakhanalia will begin, in fact, in the Kiev area, we know who was doing the land harvesting, the press will only be betting. And respectable radios, respected TV viewers, will begin from January 1st, in fact, to sell and sell national interests and territories of our state. That's what orange fools do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u109	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u110	Dear fellow national MPs! Is there any understanding in the national deputies that if we wait twenty days to take down the parliamentary powers, we may not have a government? This is something we should remember. That one. And here were things when colleagues from the Democratic Coalition said that they should have confidence in a certain decision of the CBC. I want to remind people who call themselves democracy, democracy that democracy is something when you can't be sure of anything, just because there's a law and you have to follow it. The rest of you can't be sure if you're going to be chosen or not, or if you're going to be decided by an independent institution. You can be sure of the only thing -- that you respect democratic principles and the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the speech is over. I would like to go back to the decisions made unanimously by the Conciliation Council with the participation of all faction leaders. And so. Ukraine’s national deputy Yatsenuk has made 14 decrees and has registered the suspension of Ukrainian national MPs for the term. The Supreme Council is now multiplying. I'm asking the camera to speed up the distribution. There's already some of it in the deputies, they'll be here in a minute. Colleagues, therefore, in view of the fact that this is a personal decision, i.e. that the vote should be carried out by the “Council” system in the name of each individual person taken by the national deputy of Ukraine. In accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”, the Central Election Commission may consider the registration of new national deputies within six days of the adoption of such a decision. In view of this, if we do not take this decision, the question of the new national deputies cannot be considered. In order not to form this closed circle and in support of the decision of all faction leaders, we will now put to the vote the issue of ending the powers of the Ukrainian national deputies elected to the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to emphasize again. No one deviates from the arrangement and the procedure that was foreseen. As far as the notice of violation of the Rules is concerned. In accordance with the law, I ask you to submit in writing which paragraph of the Rules has been violated and the Head of the Supreme Council will be very pleased to answer you and to report whether there has been a violation or not. Now the next question is very important. Colleagues, I'm asking for silence. I'm asking for silence in the hall, because we've already asked the vote once, and someone heard something, they didn't hear something, and we didn't vote again. There was a unanimous decision by faction leaders that the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine would be held after the Central Electoral Commission was held on the issue of swearing by Ukrainian national deputies registered with the relevant decision of the Central Electoral Commission. Such a thing should be accepted by us at a meeting of the Supreme Council. I mean, after the 14 draft rulings that we are voting on, 15 issues are voting for the agenda for the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Political agreement was given to all the heads of factions. I will list: BTU has given its consent to vote, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” has agreed to vote, “Block of Lithuania” has given its consent to vote, the Communist Party of Ukraine has given its consent to vote, the Party of the Regions has given its consent to vote. This is the subject of our political authority, colleagues. If we have an agreement, we must move exclusively in the form of our agreements. In another way, we're going to undermine each other's trust, and we're just never going to agree on any more fundamental things. In view of this, may I ask whether there is a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the termination of powers? Not again. The Supreme Council's apparatus, I ask you not to sleep, but to distribute the draft regulations. Anybody's got one, raise your hands. The Communists don't have it, please give it to the Communist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to say one more time. So, we have 14 decrees to terminate the powers of the people's deputies, after 14 decrees, the question of the next meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine following the meeting of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine, the decision of the Central Election Commission on the registration of the new National Deputies, and it will begin with a paragraph on the formation of an oath by Ukraine's new People's Deputies. I'm starting the voting procedure. Okay, five minutes for the vote. Please, BUTT. They only spoke to faction leaders. Please. Please sign up for your statement. Five minutes out of procedure. Babenko Valerij Borisovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u112	Please pass the word to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u113	The word of Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u114	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear colleagues, distinguished national MP! Dear electoral radios! We make decisions to calm everyone down, no one blames them for blocking and any other fraud, we will vote for it. But we hope that, similarly, the part of the hall where the minority is present and works will vote in favour of paragraph 15 of the Order of the Day and how we will work as proposed by the Chief of the Supreme Council. We hope that the political arrangements will be implemented during this vote. We will not delay the vote. Only we will be given orders, Arsenius Petrovich, put to the vote, we will support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u115	Thank you. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u116	Thank you, Arsenius Petrovich. Arsenius Petrovich, “Block of Lithuania” insists that the order of the day, which was previously approved, be observed. That is why we support first the decrees to terminate the powers of the people’s deputies in a timely manner and then to follow what the Conciliation Council has defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u117	Thank you, Sergey Raphaelovich. Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u118	Please, Nestor Schuffritch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u119	The word is rendered “Shufric. ” Turn the trunk on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u120	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is a strange situation. How many times do we need to vote on the agenda so that you can finally understand what it's all about for us to ensure the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine? We are voting on the same agenda for the third time. And the next. Do not forget the law that requires that if, for 20 days, Ukrainian national deputies who have been elected by members of the government do not exercise their authority, the legal act to which they were appointed is no longer valid. Do you want us to choose your coalition government a few more times? Let yourself and the people work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u121	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u122	Yuri Carmazin. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Mr. Head! I made suggestions to change the question: First the day’s order and then to put an end to the mandate. With regard to the decrees made by the national deputy Yatzenuk, these decrees are not written when they take effect. This means that we have only voted on them – and today we are taking action. There's no procrastination, there's no solution, we don't write from that number. Let's say we write "from Tuesday" and count the number. And as for the rocks that are coming now, that the non-admission of a set of laws on the ground. And who prevented this month from pulling the entire coalition that used to be, which is now being held in such a way that we can't make it? We will still be able to adopt laws that regulate the sale of land or moratoriums on its sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u123	Kilinkarov Spiridon Pavlovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u124	Thank you. Well, first of all, who was in the way. I would like to remind you that Parliament has not worked for more than seven months on your own account, not on our own. That's the first one. And the second. Arsenija Petrovich, I think we should go on the agenda and put the question to the vote about the withdrawal of the parliamentary powers from the people's deputies who joined the Government. And the vote on this issue will show us exactly who and how interested Parliament is in working in a stable manner. If our political opponents do not vote in favour of this decision, this will once again demonstrate that they are working in a destructive manner within Parliament, and this coalition will never, in orange, be able to keep those promises and work effectively in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u125	Thank you. Zubov Valentin Sergiyovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u126	Valentin Zubov, Ulyi Timoshenko Block. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues of the people's deputies! Of course, the Yulia Timoshenko faction is true, absolutely true to the position of the leader of our party, now the Prime Minister of Ukraine. We will vote today, now for the withdrawal of the parliamentary powers from those of the people who have gone to work in the Cabinet of Ministers. This will certainly be done. But I would like to draw the attention of all those present in the Supreme Council Hall to the fact that I believe neither the right nor the left-hand conclusions of the serious situation have been reached. Incomprehensible terrible aggression by communists and false accusations, the intolerance of the Party of the Regions is incomprehensible. What was supposed to happen. Dear colleagues, let's work because people are waiting for us to be productive and condemning that we are each other instead of working, we are biting here in the hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, time is up. I'd like to go back to what we're about to do. First. There's a proposal for a decision to come into force. We are now using the general rule that the decision is effective from the moment it is adopted. I explain again why: 101 articles of the Law on the Election of Ukrainian National Deputies. There is no decision that has become effective – there is no subject of consideration by the Central Election Commission regarding the registration of new national deputies. It's a circled circle, we'll walk on it forever. Therefore, we are obliged to take immediate decisions regarding the termination of the powers of national deputies. I must sign it immediately, send it to the Central Election Commission, and the Central Election Commission will not be before the six-day deadline has come to a decision. So I'm asking that we don't just go from empty to empty. There is such an approach. Copy that? Copy that. Item two. Once again, I would like to stress this: there was a unanimous decision made by all the faction leaders about the order of the day. And the agenda: the next meeting of the Supreme Council -- after the CBC, after the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputies -- begins with an oath. I am voting on the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 1246, to terminate the mandate, to suspend the term of office of the Ukrainian national deputy Paulenka Yuri Alexiyovich. Please vote. Not all of them, comrades. As the book says. [[12:51:57]] For 429 The factions, please. Decision taken. Thank you. I bet on the vote Order, registration number 1247, “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kucherenka Aleksija Juriovich”. Please vote. [[12:52:28]] For 432 I bet on the vote Order, registration number 1248, “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputy Nemiri Grigori Mihajlovich”. Please vote. [[12:52:50]] For 432 I am betting on the vote of Decree, registration number 1249, “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the People’s Deputy of the People’s Republic of Vienna, Joseph Vicentiovich”. Please vote. [[12:53:13]] For 437 Decision taken. I am betting on the vote Order, registration number 1250, “On the permanent termination of the powers of the Ukrainian National Deputy Krupka Petra Mikolaiovich”. Please vote. [[12:53:36]] For 436 Decision taken. I bet on the vote Decree No. 1251 “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Denisova Ludmila Leontivni”. Please vote. [[12:53:59]] For 433 Decision taken. I am betting on the vote of Decree, registration number 1252, “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Georgiy Georgievicz”. Please vote. [[12:54:22]] For 436. Decision taken. I bet on the vote of the Decree “On the permanent cessation of the powers of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Pinzenik Viktor Mihajlovich”, registration number 1253. Please vote. [[12:54:45]] For 434. Decision taken. I bet on the vote of the Decree “On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Lucenka Yuri Vitaliyovich”. Please vote. [[12:55:14]] For 418. Decision taken. I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy, Onichuka Mikli Vasilovich”, registration number 1255. Please vote. [[12:55:38]] For 433. Decision taken. I bet on the vote of the Decree “On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Kuibida Vasil Stepanović”. Please vote. [[12:56:00]] For 424. Decision taken. I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Yehanurov Jury Ivanovich”, registration number 1257. Please vote. [[12:56:24]] For 433. Decision taken. I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine "On the permanent suspension of the powers of the national deputy of Ukraine Turkinova Alexandr Volodymyrovic", registration number 1258. Please vote. [[12:56:48]] For 416 Decision taken. I bet on the vote of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the permanent suspension of the powers of the Ukrainian national deputy Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna”, registration number 1259. Please vote. [[12:57:13]] For 406 Decision taken. I would like to put to the vote the question of the beginning of the next session after the Central Election Commission, the registration of the Ukrainian National Deputies, and the first formation of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please, vote. [[12:57:44]] For 244 Decision taken. By factions, please show me. Dear National Deputies! Five minutes of vote, please. Sign up for the show. Lukas Olena Leonidivna, Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u128	Dear Arseny Petrovich! As Head of the Supreme Council, who presides over this meeting, I request you to comply with the requirements of article 66 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to which the coalition's activities are suspended in the event of a reduction in the number of coalitions to the number of national deputies less than those laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine, i.e. less than 226. You have to make this announcement now and print an appropriate announcement in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. Good-bye, coalition, to new meetings!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u129	Bilorus Oleg Grigorovich, Timoshenko's Yuli Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u130	Please give the floor to the national MP Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u131	National MP Tomenko. Colleagues, I'm asking for silence in the hall, we've only got a few minutes left.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u132	On behalf of our faction, I would like to say that, to put it mildly, we are concerned about the incoherence of our political opponents and that they have certainly forgotten that there is a direct broadcast. And when they not only make decisions on the Conciliation Council but promise their constituents, it is certainly not fair to deceive them. Because when we debated for two hours and went to all the concessions to implement the decisions made by the Conciliation Council and the Party of the Regions, and the Communists do not vote for it, I think that Parliament does not honor the Party of Regions and Communists to discredit the whole system of our work. Our faction has fulfilled its mandates and its promises. And I would ask Arsenius Petrovich to pay attention to inconsistencies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u133	Naydenov, Communist faction, Andry Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u134	Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u135	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Colleagues, I'm asking for silence in the hall! We've got 10 minutes to work. I'm asking for your silence. We'll listen to your colleague Simonek. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u136	Dear colleagues, distinguished radios and TV sets! The Communist faction on the Conciliation Council agreed that the Supreme Council would address this issue, and how the Communist faction would vote would be our right, and we realized that right, first of all. [[B in m in s a l in]] Secondly, why did we vote like that? For one simple reason, today, in fact, the orange coalition is depriving the Supreme Council of its ability to work. Because of 14 people, 436 will not work, we have been chosen to work. In this case, the work of the Supreme Council depends on the decision of the Central Electoral Commission. And that's how you humiliated yourself today, and you made yourself dependent on the CIA, not on the voters who elected you. Therefore, rather than engage in political fornication, do your duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u137	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u138	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! We have just witnessed political shushing by at least two factions of the parliamentary minority. So far we will not call these factions, but the electorate knows them by heart long ago. But I want to report to some unwelcome people that they must have forgotten that the coalition has chosen the Supreme Council of Ukraine's head right in front of you, Jacinuk Arsenij Petrovich. You may have forgotten that yesterday, the coalition elected Prime Minister Timoshenko and a new democratic government, which is in charge and has now assumed its responsibilities. In these offices where you were sitting yesterday, there are representatives of the democratic forces, and they're fighting the inflation that came after you, they're fighting the higher prices that came after you, and they're calling for you to be constructive. Our electors are witnesses: we went by law, we stopped authorizing our deputies. But no one will start work until the next colleagues of the N-N-N-N-B-T-Fact are sworn in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u139	The word Shufrich from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u140	Thank you. Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! Let's face it, what happened, literally, a few minutes ago. Why didn't two factions vote? We've already had the experience to see. [[B in m in s a l in]] We have experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u141	Colleagues! Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u142	Dear colleagues! We have experience of following in the “Council” system as our colleagues vote. And when we saw 14 Ukrainian national deputies voting, who had already lost their powers, we decided not to vote. So I ask you to be as responsible as possible, to act solely under the Rules and by laws. And notice, we're even considering that you've violated six.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u143	Colleagues, Nestor, please don't do this anymore. There's gonna be a scream, you want to hear it? [[B in m in s a l in]] Nestor Ivanovich, please. Let Nestor Ivanovich finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, I want to tell you again. A faction of regions would have voted if it hadn't been for a vote on the MPs' card that had been revoked, first. And second. According to article 66 of the Rules, we did not even urge you to review the coalition, realizing that you have such a situation. Therefore, we need to be understanding of the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-19-m0.u145	Thank you, Nestor. Colleagues, I'm asking all the national deputies to sit down and finish the sessions. Colleagues, I would, after all, like the Head of the Supreme Council and as the person who organized, including the meeting of the Conciliation Council, I would like to address all the factions' leaders and, in fact, report my own position, my own sense of what just happened. We're sitting, colleagues, quiet, I beg you! We are sitting at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, all the heads of factions, all the worthy, highly respected, serious people, the national deputies of Ukraine. All take on political commitments, factions’ heads, microphones, and transcripts to vote in favour of the next plenary session of the Supreme Council. I would like to emphasize: all of them, unanimously. We come to the hall and what just happened is happening in the hall. Which, right now, I have, you know, I have a situation like the Head of the Supreme Council. If there weren't 227 votes now, and I was giving them a political commitment, and you've heard that we're going to work that way, that's after the CTC meeting. What degree of trust can be common to one another? What further political arrangements can we consider? If we had unanimously raised our hands, we said yes, and as a result we came into the hall and went crazy on each other. Isn't that the approach, is that what you're calling for, in principle, all of you saying that there should be consensus, there should be agreement. How can we cheat on each other? Dear National Deputies! I am grateful and low in worship of the “Block of Lithuania” for what was said and done. If it hadn't been said, it wouldn't have been done. [[Applause]] And if we keep working like this, then we'll really have a guarantee of success. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we have 30 days under the Act on the Cabinet of Ministers for the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the Government Action Programme, not for 30 days, but for 29 days. This is paragraph one. Item two. As far as the State Budget Act is concerned. We have actually 12 calendar days, that's calendar days, I say, and jobs are twice as low, for the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act. In view of this, I very much ask all faction leaders, we have enough time today and tomorrow to complete the committee division and start a constitutional procedure of legislative, legislative work. We have enormous challenges in our daily lives, starting with the price of gas and ending with the increase in wages. Thus, we must immediately begin the normal work of the Supreme Council. I'm going to the Central Election Commission. First. None of the political forces has the right to pressure the Central Electoral Commission, which is an independent body. That is why the political forces must take this into account. In doing so, those political commitments that are made, whether political or not, should take place, we should allow the Central Election Commission to vote and make a legal and constitutional decision. I declare the plenary session of the Supreme Council closed. The following will take place after the meeting of the CTC with a point on swearing by the Ukrainian National Deputies. Thank you.
