ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV and radio audiences! Today, April 13, MPs are preparing for registration, sit down, insert cards. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:38]] They carry out their duties as deputies — 261 deputies. The morning session is open. You have a work plan for today, and we are implementing the Supreme Council decree that was adopted last week. Before we begin our consideration of the subject, let us congratulate Illashov Grigorija Alexiyovich on his birthday. [[Applause]] May I continue? In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, requests from deputies are made on Friday. But before that, why not sign up for an address that you would like to hear after asking? Yes, there are questions from the people's deputies: Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on numerous violations of Ukrainian legislation during the construction of the water supply in the village of Predushni Bahchisaraya District of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sergey CHUKMASOVA to the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine on the unsatisfying activities of the Department of Economic Crime in the field of high technology. We're asking these questions, they've been properly formulated, before, they've been asked by the deputies, and so these questions are justified, and reflections and their statements can be made by the MPs. Now the word is Galunenko Alexander Vasilovich. Please. Miroshenko instead of Galunenko? Please. Well, said the deputy head of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u2	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I would very much like to address the President of Ukraine today. My colleague's press conference, the head of the Justice Committee, Sergio Vasilovich Kiwalov, led this address. And it was at this press conference that he sounded facts that couldn't help but cause anxiety. The information that the President's Secretariat is preparing for the release of a number of judges who have made decisions that disagree with the President or who have expressed their willingness to be fundamentally honest in handling cases may indicate preparations for the most cynical usurpation of power in Ukraine. As the head of the Justice Committee's subcommittee, it's obvious that by signing orders to cancel the appointment of a judge of the Feodosian City Court, the Artemov District Court, the Pecher District Court, the President is in violation of the law, because he can't deny the status of a judge, he doesn't have such authority. In addition, the administrative decision taken by the High Council of Justice to carry out checks on those judges who make adverse decisions may also be regarded as a desire to clear the way for their illegal decrees. Moreover, the provision of protection to the judges of the Constitutional Court does not seem to be clear. I recall that armed personnel of the BSS were assigned to every judge of the Constitutional Court, even those who did not. This can also be viewed as direct pressure and intimidation of judges and members of their families. It is clear that any citizen who is forced to force armed guards cannot view his condition as normal, everyday, and safe. I'll tell you more. The Internet has already printed compromising conversations between the judges of the Constitutional Court. These are false printings that aim only: to compromise the Constitutional Court, to have no confidence from society in the Constitutional Court's decision, and thus still to bring the matter to an end. In its population, it can be said that these facts allow for a high probability of talking about what is being done today in an attempt to take under total control an independent judicial branch of power, with a view to preventing complaints of illegal and illegal decisions. Dear colleagues, I urge you to stand up for, first and foremost, the Constitution of Ukraine, not to go to any illegal negotiation and to make your decisions solely.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u3	Thank you for being so concise. Kilincarov. Cibenko, please, instead of Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u4	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The so - called united opposition continues to be strained by the situation in Ukraine. More precisely, not opposition, but the part of Parliament that has opposed its own people and its own state. You know, I would like to remind all of us of the famous words of Robert Christmas, who once said: “The union, as an order, must be endured and deserved. ” So those people today who claim to be united opposition and who travel everywhere: Israel, Germany, France and the United States -- it's not nice to speak on behalf of the people today and call themselves opposition. So once again, I'm saying that the breakdown exists only in the heads of the orange politicians, because the Cabinet of Ministers is working. And today, on behalf of the faction, on behalf of the United Coalition, I would like to ask the representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make every effort to ensure that the negative effects that are beginning to arise in connection with this situation that is now in Ukraine make every effort to minimize the loss of these negative consequences. I call on my colleagues to work in accordance with the current legislation and the order of the day, we have approved, and since the two-week deadline is approaching from the President's issuance of the anti-constitutional decree on the timely cessation of the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like to refer to the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroza: Alexander Aleksandrovitch, you have all the reasons for the decisions taken by the Supreme Council in full compliance with the current legislation after April 2 to sign as Head of the Supreme Council and to publish in such a manner. I would like to address the citizens of Ukraine once again and express my concern about the pressure that continues on the judges of the Constitutional Court. I understand that there remains a last argument, the last citadel that they try to push to prevent the establishment of a normal constitutional order in Ukraine. I would like to take a second look at the information she was making, but I would like to stress it again. It's about the fact that today they're trying to reach a decision of the MPO, which is just an advisory body, and which of these issues can't make the right decisions, they're trying to make decisions about the level of the Constitution and the level of the laws of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I call upon all of you to join us, to work on the walls of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is "Platinum" instead of "Maybeard," he gives him his word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! Yesterday there was an expanded meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy on the Social and Economic Consequences of Political Stability following the signing of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on Termal Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The meeting was attended by the heads of the government of the economic and social bloc led by Azarov and Tobacco respectively, heads of all scientific institutions, economic powers, heads of scientific organizations, trade unions, the public. I will read out the committee’s decision, which consists of such items. First. The analysis of microeconomic indicators from 2004 to April 1st 2007 shows that the positive development of the country's economy during the government period headed by Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic is positive. The other one. There was a significant drop in the figures during the unstable political situation in the country and the work of the government led by Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko and Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov. Third. On March 1, 2007, steady economic growth was observed. The internal gross product increased by 8.6 percent in January-February 2007 compared to the corresponding period of the sixth year. The growth rate of industrial production reached 14 percent. The total budget expenditure for 2007 is 201.2 billion, 30 billion dollars above the corresponding figure in 2006. The income of the General Fund of the State Budget in the first quarter exceeded the plan by six percent. Tax revenue in the first quarter budget increased by 39.3 percent. Compared to the corresponding period of the sixth year. Population income in January-February 2007 increased by 12.2 percent, nominally 23.6 percent. The real wage is 12.3, and the nominal increase in the income of the population from employment continues at 1.3 percent inflation in the first quarter of the current year. Fourth, a positive trend in almost all activities suggests that GDP growth in the first quarter will be at least 8 percent. The government has confirmed the correctness of the chosen policy and the ability to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u7	Vladimir Mikhailovich, Rudnik is handing over Ephraim, yes, the leader, yes. Finish your speech, please. One minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u8	Yeah. In view of the information, I will read the closing points, which will draw the attention of the President of Ukraine to the failure of article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution to address the President with an annual letter to the Supreme Council, there was no such appeal in 2006 and 2007. In order not to allow the political, economic and social crisis to invite the President of Ukraine to suspend the decree to suspend the term of office of the Supreme Council until a decision has been rendered by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u9	Thank you. The word has Ephraim in place of Rudnik. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, I think that most of us will agree that today everyone is expressing his views, first and foremost, to address its electorates, as the main seats are already agreed upon. Many people continue to wonder what the cause of the crisis is and what options to overcome it. I will try to express my views on these issues at such a limited time. What was the basis? On the one hand, the failure to form a majority of the orange team coalition, as well as the failure to manage the country, as confirmed by a year and a year and a half of total hysteria, the crisis of the two orange Governments and the President's Sharahs, in its assessments in the short term, from the definition of “the best government of all times and peoples” to the signing of the Economic Liberation Order. These are facts that assess one political aspect of the conflict. On the other hand, the well-balanced and consistent position of the leaders of other political forces, which showed how, without having a number of common positions on a number of issues, it was possible for the State to adopt, on behalf of itself, the Prime Minister, who had created, without any particular difficulty, a Government that had been able to stabilize not only the economic situation of the State but also that had begun to implement social programmes that improved people's well-being in a few months. It would seem that the President should be happy, and everything is happening the other way around. So what is the real reason. The main thing is how I see it. First of all, in various respects, there are several problems: First. The inability or inability of individual politicians or politicians to think in the interests of the State by abstracting the external impact. Second. The attitude towards reviewing certain facts of our history. Third. The attitude towards the language problem. Fourth. The desire to create a titular nation in the national State is largely a wish. Fifth. Attempts to draw the State into a religious issue as one party sees it. Whether it is possible to agree on these issues with the opposing political forces. Some are sure — yes, some are not today. What is necessary in this situation, in my view, is to be done, first of all, by the two parties, firmly stating that in the country we will be guided by its greatness by law, not by its spirit. Through it, through the law, we can build a European State, and that's the only way. The issues on which it is impossible to agree today must be put on hold. However, the desire of any party to a political conflict to win the other side permanently and irreversibly can be reversed by many broken fates and, in the worst case, a failure for the State. Which I'm sure no one wants. And the last. Even theoretically, they would be able to regain the truth and lie as a result of questionable elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u11	Please finish. I'm asking everyone to log in. Well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u12	The orange majority, which the President's environment very much wants, is sure that the country is once again awaiting endless separation, a series of crises, whether it is for each of us, respected voters, to return to yesterday, please decide for yourself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u13	Chimyr and Menduz are joining up their time for the Menduz, and six minutes stand up. He'll try to get in faster.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, Ukrainian television audiences were able to make another mistake for a show called a press conference by the President of Ukraine. I think every Ukrainian would like to get an answer, which is why Yushchenk was forced to violate the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and issue an anti-constitutional decree. It should be noted that Viktor Andriyovich performed in the best Brezhnev traditions. Within an hour and a half, press conference organizers wouldn't let any journalist into the microphone who could ask at least one critical question. And it's not random. Because the President spent an hour and a half to justify his own incompetence and his own political provocation associated with his unconstitutional decree. I was moved to hear from Yushchenk, who appears to have signed the decree of dissolution of Parliament, forcing him to do so by Alexander Alexander Moroz. The subtext reads clearly: “People, I have done a great stupid thing, but I am not to blame.” Victor Andryovich, you signed a decree on the dissolution of Parliament, not the dissolution of your own pasture. And you are old enough and responsible enough to be responsible for your actions. Next. I recommend that the President's press services prepare him for the speech. For example, the President stated that he had voted against political reform and had always acted in favour of it. Victor Andryovich, read your speeches a little bit because you're just confused with them. That's what happens when there's no position and there's only a posture. In December 2004, speaking in front of hundreds of thousands of people who believed that you would secure fair and fair authority in Ukraine, you, Victor Andriyovich, said: “I give the word that I voted for the polytreform, but I don’t know why the decryption shows that I didn’t vote. I'm sure the button didn't work. This is a decision in full harmony with the faction position.” [[End of quote]] So when were you being honest, Mr. President, on the field or yesterday in front of the cameras? What, does the seat position determine the point of view? Next. Yesterday, the president decided to insult the Ukrainian Parliament one more time. Victor Yushchenko was essentially accused of selling the BUT faction leader. The President stated that the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, voted by the Coalition for National Unity together with the faction of Yulia Timoshenko, was quoted as being “bought”. If the President claims that he has information about accepting a specific bill for money, he is obliged as an officer to transmit it to the competent authorities. If not, such statements simply do not suit the President of the European State. I'll remind you. That in 2005, Yushchenko had already accused Timoshenko of corruption when he said in an interview with BBC that Julia Timoshenko and her company "The Only Energy Systems of Ukraine" had caused losses to Ukraine's budget for $8 billion. I formally request the Supreme Council's Regulatory Committee to investigate Yushchenk's accusations against our colleague. Viktor Andriyovich is obliged to provide the facts that confirmed his accusation to the BUT faction and other national deputies. I would like to remind you that the source of corruption for the President would be worth looking around for. It is the business partners of Victor Yushchenko who is the Syrian businessman Youssef Hares and ex-head “Naftogazu” Alexy Yvchenko who can tell the President what corruption is. Viktor Andriyovich should remember that he and Yvchenk were the ones who organized the 2006 New Year’s Gas affair. It was Yushchenko who gave gas bills to Russia for the Redemption of Rosukrenerego. There's something about these multibillion-dollar corruption schemes that Victor Andriyovich doesn't want to talk about at his press conferences. Nothing has been said by the President and how he is demonstratively ignoring judicial decisions on the basis that the guarantor of the Constitution does not enforce the decision, I emphasize, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and does not reinstate the governor of the Kyiv region of Jovtak. Just today, Yushchenko wants the post of governor of the Kyiv region to be embraced by his accomplice, a pleasant woman named Vera Ulyanchenko, who generously supports the capture of Viktor Andriyovich by the tropical culture, the jars, the paintings, the streets, and so forth. That's where you need to look for the sources of corruption, Victor Andryovich. Until you learn to obey the laws, obey the Constitution of Ukraine, you will be hindered by all parliaments, courts, prosecutors, government, State inspection, protest actions, governors and so on. At the end of the press conference, Viktor Andriyovich mentioned his favorite theme, the early elections. Of course, they will be, but only after the Supreme Council has appointed the time and order of their conduct. And what's more, early elections to parliament will be held simultaneously with the Presidential elections. Because the main source of power in Ukraine is not the President, but the people of Ukraine. I don't think the President should shake his armchair as clearly as he did at last night's press conference. Why is Yushchenko afraid of national will? If the Ukrainian people supported the change of power early, it would be logical to do so along with the change of the President. This double election is not going to cost the budget, according to former accountant Victor Yushchenk. So about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u15	Finish it, please. Thank you. Pomarenko. [[Applause]] I notice, I'm just announcing Ponomarenko, and I'm applauding. Please, Alexandrovska instead of Ponomarenko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u16	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Respected colleagues, members of the Communist factions, were approached by the mothers of the soldiers who died in peacetime. They gave us the text of a call to the President of Ukraine and to the Minister of Defence, Grizenko. At their request, I declare this appeal. “To the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, Minister of Defence, the leaders of all levels of government of Ukraine. On behalf of all the mothers of Zaporozhye, Kharkiv areas whose sons died in military service and those who are currently serving in military service, we demand that we not use our sons for adventurous purposes. Our army must protect its people from external enemies, but not fight their people. We have repeatedly asked the President for a meeting, we have asked the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, but our request is ignored. President Yushchenko has repeatedly vetoed the law that provides for our social protection. The Ministry of Defence divides the parents whose sons died in military service into black and gray certificates. On behalf of the Ministry of Defence, many parents do not receive a penny of legal misery for the lost son. And we understand very well why the Minister of Defence of Ukraine is afraid to meet with us. The Deputy Military Commissioner for Humanitarian Affairs has been abolished by the Minister of Defence, which we believe is essential to solving, including our problems. We support the actions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers and in order to ensure stability in Ukraine, we believe it necessary to repeal the President's decree on the dissolution of Parliament and the holding of early elections. It is better to send money for the elections for material assistance, including poor soldiers' mothers. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of Defense, you don't share Ukraine. In our time on the road to democracy, the principle of “separate and rule” will not pass. It is the people, through the respective powers of the Ukrainian people's deputies, who will not allow this to happen through their trust and trust in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, respectively. We are in favour of the resignation of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Griesenka. This is the only Minister of Defence who ignores our request to meet him. Give peace of mind to the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. The President of the Zaporozhye Foundation for the Families of the Dead - Vorobiev, Chairman of the Harkov Regional Union of Military Mothers - Bykov.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u17	Thank you. Volga and Bulba pass the word Melnichuku, yes. Get ready for the E.R.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV setters, radio listeners! I have the honour to announce an address to the members of the Party of Regions, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Dear compatriots, the leadership of the three political forces -- the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party -- turn to their parties and the entire Ukrainian people for the dangerous political situation that has arisen today in our country. The signing of the second April of this year by the President of an anti-constitutional country and therefore the illegal decree on the cessation of parliamentary powers and the appointment of term elections became the detonator that threatens to undermine civil tranquillity destabilizes the situation in all spheres of social life. Having become dependent on certain political circles that often aim at personal goals, the constitutional guarantor actually ignored its letter, provoked real opposition in the country, and put civil conflict on its side. To change the political and economic stability that has been achieved by the unforgivable efforts of the coalition of today's government, to further increase economic potential, to increase the well-being of people comes social disappointment, apathy, uncertainty in the future, fear of losing the last. And it's all going on in the background of loud slogans and talks about democracy, fighting the enemies of the people, beautiful promises of a better life when parliamentary elections are held for the term. The initiators of these impeccable appeals seem to have forgotten that only recently people have made their political choices, have determined the political powers they trust. With full responsibility, we state that we are not afraid of early parliamentary elections, we are not opposed to them, we are opposed to illegal elections, the initiations and the implementation of which pose numerous threats to Ukraine. We are confident that, if needed, our party will make every effort to win, and our voters will once again give us political confidence mandates in an even greater number. Our only condition is that these elections should take place on a perfectly legitimate basis, on the basis of the law and the functioning Constitution. If so, life itself will prove to be a real mistake for those who organized this huge political adventure. At the moment, we now officially state that our political forces, the centres on the ground do not carry out and cannot take any action to participate in the elections until there are adequate legal grounds for doing so. Dear One Partymen! Dear compatriots! The National Unity Coalition, doing the will of most Ukrainian citizens, is in favour of strengthening the constitutionally defined relations between branches of government, because only reconciliation will allow for a reliable path to a rapid recovery of the economy and on this basis the well-being of the people. We call on members of our parties, the entire Ukrainian people to unite around the national idea -- to build a sovereign, democratic and social Ukraine. The national rebellion in Ukraine, anarchy and chaos in Ukraine — no! The Constitution and the rule of law of Ukraine, yes! Together, we will win! Head of the Party of the Region Janukovic, Head of the Socialist Party Frost, First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine Simonenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u19	Thank you. The word is Gnatenko. Behind him, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u20	National MP Lev Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, Committee of National Defence and Security. On Thursday 12 April, the President of Ukraine said very beautifully: “I am a Democrat, I respect the laws of Ukraine. “ I’m It is only a smile, or we would like to say thank you if the President has respected the laws of Ukraine since today. That's what's happening. Let us return with you to the National Security and Defence Council Act. Today, as you know, the National Security and Defence Council has a lot of authority. But there are also those that the President has personally appointed today, including changes in the budgetary regulation of our country. Everything would be right, except for one. I want to address the President with my request. If the National Security and Defence Council is given additional functions today, the issue of legitimacy and compliance with the National Security Council Act is raised. I ask the President a question, reading article six: “The composition of the National Security and Defence Council. The National Security and Defence Council is formed by the President of Ukraine. The Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council includes the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Defence of Ukraine, the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Members of the National Security Council – please note to the press and everyone sitting in the Hall – members of the National Security and Defence Council may be the leaders of other central executive bodies.” [[may be]] [[Central!]] I ask the President of Ukraine whether he is the head of the central executive bodies of Balog Viktor Ivanovic, Head of the President's Secretariat, Kirichenko Sergey Alexandrović, Head of the General Staff, Kichtenko Aleksandr Timofeyevich, Head of the National Institute of Strategic Research, Stelma Vladimir Semenović, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine? I mean, I officially declare that these people are not the leaders of other organs of the central executive branch and cannot, under Ukrainian law, be part of the National Security and Defence Council. I address the President of Ukraine. Please provide an answer to this question and bring to the Security Council the composition of the Security Council in accordance with the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Instead of Garden Bogchuk, he's performing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Alexander, honourable deputies! Yesterday, the President of Ukraine, making his own pianist, did not miss the privatisation show about the sale of VAT shares by Luganskteplor. Mr. President, if we want the future of this company, if we want people to have jobs, have wages, and today there are about 8,000 employees working there, if we want the investor to work peacefully, then we should not touch on this issue, but we should mention the times when the prime minister was Yashchenko, but he was head of the Bodnar Foundation, when we wanted to hand over this enterprise at the price of two trucks in order to use it on metal later. Ask, Mr. President, the employees who had the effect of six years of court hearings after the 2001 fund's failed competition. The companies that initiated these trials sought to sell 43 million dollars through the courts, bringing Lugansk Shipping into a protracted crisis. Today, the Semenyuk State Property Fund provides for the investment of a professional investor who paid 300 million dollars for it, I stress, at market value, and has pledged to invest more than 300 million dollars. Consider one of the most important aspects of the contest: the mandatory development of new technology. Those who have little knowledge of transport engineering will realize that this will cost the investor several times more than he paid for the package. Compare: In 2001, only 27 million investments were offered and no words were made about the development of new technologies. In contrast, Bondar’s fund was obliged to monitor investment data for only three years when the legislation provided for five years. Today’s fund has signed a monitoring of the implementation of investment commitments for a period of 15 years. For example, we all know how today's fund is fundamentally suited to this control. The Fund's principal position is to provide additional revenue from Metal Steel to a budget of 400 million dollars. The workers were paid their 13th salary. The salary was raised several times. I am sure that the same clear and rigid position of the fund will also be with regard to Lugansk-Téplica. By the way, I would like to stress once again: “Lugansk pipeline” is not a pearl of domestic metallurgy, such as “Criminals”. Please give me more time to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u23	Let me finish the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u24	This company needs a lot of investment, new markets, and an investor that can make it happen. It's a big business with the same big problems. This is not hidden by today’s leaders and by today’s workers. Consider for one more moment. Only the investor’s social obligations make up about 15 points. This is: not allowing employees to be released from the buyer's initiative; creating new jobs; additional payments from the implementation of the product per year; and increasing the level of wages based on inflation. The terms of today’s competition for social guarantees agreed with the trade union committee and are controlled by the fund together with the trade union committee. I'm going to point out that in 2001, in the context of a social security contest, there was no word. What could be expected of an investor in such cases? Just cutting the company into scrap metal. About 50 workers came to the State Property Fund this week. They came not to criticize, not to protest, but to ask for their support. People ask one thing: let us work calmly. So once again, I urge you to stop your own pyar, during which you do not even have to cynically twist all the facts about the privatization of the Lugansk Télécom. Dear voters, help me find the answer to the incomprehensible phenomena in President Yushchenk's conduct. On April 2, he signed a decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council, and on April 5, he appealed to the supposedly disbanded Supreme Council to consider a number of laws, including the ratification by the Supreme Council of the agreement between Ukraine and the European Banks. So, Mr. President, I believe that the Supreme Council is acting under the Constitution, yes, but why is there no Supreme Council in all of its speeches, including during a press conference? Explain this question. I believe that this is, my speech is considered a parliamentary request to the President of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u25	Thank you. If you have a request from the President, please form it properly first. And secondly, I would like to summarize our exchange of thoughts on the issues that concern the MPs today, to point out that all the speeches were a certain amount of response to the President's press conference yesterday. Of course, the MPs are concerned about the incorrect statements about known facts and circumstances and about the privatization of the “Lugansképébrova” here, it should be recalled why the veto was imposed on the “On the Fund of State Property” law, which should have been adopted long ago, and it was from, well, after the adoption of the Constitution for more than 10 years, something was not adopted. and on many other things. So I hope that the sharpness of the assessments that today sounded in the mouth of the MPs should not be the emotional response itself, but that, on the basis of the Constitution and the laws, steps should be taken to meet the needs of society, the needs of the state. Once again, based on the Constitution, no more. So yesterday's speeches, and I would also like to point out that the President made a brilliant use of the Constitution's rules on the impossibility of holding presidential elections, and he was right. Why was he right? Because he referred to the Constitution. I named four reasons, but I forgot to name three reasons -- the grounds for the dissolution of Parliament, because, well, I disagree with you that I didn't study. Article 90 earlier than other articles, from 104, 106 and so forth. That's why. Why? Because it's uncomfortable to say this because you have to look for an explanation that goes beyond the Constitution, beyond the constitutional system in Ukraine. The thing is, nobody's afraid of the election and the statement that was made here at Mikhail Vasilovich, it makes sense, she's actually saying that we're ready to go to the election if the Constitutional Court's decision is right. Even in order to settle the contradictions that are in society, as the President's Administration says today, in a clean letter, you can go to the election of all the structures of power by setting the term in time, by correcting the laws and so forth. Then, indeed, there will be a clean face as we did in 1994 by decision of both the President and the Ukrainian Parliament. But I think that today we need to find a political solution, a compromise, because, once again, there is a constitutional decree of the Supreme Council that cannot be annulled by anyone and has the same political power as the President's decree and is aimed at avoiding deviations from the Constitution. And there's a presidential decree that also has legal power, but it's completely contrary to the Constitution. Can you imagine what the Cabinet of Ministers is going to do? He was given the Supreme Council's decree, which prohibits spending on purposes not provided for in the budget law, and the right requirement is correct. On the other hand, the President's demands to pay, arrange for election funding and so on and so forth. Clearly, there is a legal conflict, but it is created by political motives. So let's take this argument off the political agenda, so we have to pause or cancel the President's decree and cancel the Supreme Council's ruling, and then sit down, agree on how to proceed or vote for everyone, or whether we can do without these elections that don't give anything in society, everyone knows which ones are going to be considered. I think this is what we should come out of, negotiating with the President's Institute, with him himself, respecting him as head of state. But more than anything, respect for the Constitution and the standards it contains. Then there will be order in the state. Thank you for your frank communication and for your constructive suggestions, honourable deputies. And now we're looking at a preliminary report from the Provisional Investigations Commission of the Security Council, scheduled for today, on the establishment of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service, guilty of issuing illegal orders for the organization and reporting of telephone conversations and monitoring of Ukrainian national deputies, judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, judges of general jurisdiction and members of the Central Electoral Commission. Report by Yuri Pavlovich Samylenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u26	Dear colleagues! The Interim Investigation Commission, composed of ten members of your delegation, as well as three members of the National Security and Defence Committee, held meetings from 10 to 12 April, at which the functions of the Commission were allocated, established the order of priority. By decision of the members of the Commission, a range of agencies have been expanded to include the Ministry of Foreign Intelligence, the Directorate General for Intelligence of the Ministry of Defence, with certain technical capabilities to control the air that can be used to carry out and monitor mobile telephone conversations. In accordance with the plan, official requests have been prepared and are sent to the heads of these force structures for information, for the manner in which they have been used, for possible violations of their use, and for other information relating to the subject matter of the Interim Investigation Commission. On 11 April, on our initiative, a panel of the Ukrainian Security Service was held, which was attended by members of the Commission. The panel discussed the availability of special technical equipment and rules for use by the Ukrainian Security Service, as well as the system for monitoring the use of these tools. Interviews were conducted with the management and operational composition of the branch of the BMS, which had a technical capability as a result of specific facts, unauthorized telephone auditions and documentary evidence of violations of the technical manuals. It has been established that, at the initiative of the Security Service, the strengthening of the management of the unit of the technicians at its disposal has been addressed, with a view to preventing violations, a number of activities have been planned to improve the situation in the team, as a result of the frequent change of leadership in the Security Service. To the same end, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the heads of the regional Security Service offices to comply with the Constitution and existing legislation, not to engage in political struggles or to be provoked by destructive political forces. The strengthening of the work of the Security Service to identify the commercially acquired special equipment and technical complexes, which is a direct responsibility of the relevant units of the Ukrainian Security Service, has been discussed. Within the framework of the two criminal cases initiated by the Attorney-General's Office in connection with the interrogation of telephone conversations by senior officials and the illegal use of special technical means, the business entities of the Office of the Prosecutor-General have carried out the necessary investigations, including interrogations by staff members and heads of the Security Service units with special equipment at their disposal. The unauthorized use of these funds has not yet been identified. This work will continue, including with the help of specialists and technicians who are able to detect material traces, residual traces of hard magnetic disks on the detection of telephones that were placed on the wire without the court's authorization. Planned work continues to verify the statement made by individual citizens and officials in connection with suspicions of possible non-licensing of telephone conversations and external observation, including in the regions of Ukraine. A working meeting of the members of the commission was also held with the management of the Ministry of the Interior. It was found that, in accordance with the instructions of the President of Ukraine of 2005, the equipment available to the Ministry of Interior for the control of air was transferred to the Ukrainian security service and that the transfer of the technical equipment had documented the management of the security service. However, a more detailed inspection, together with the Ministry of Safety and the Public Prosecutor's Office, is subject to information on the smuggling into Ukraine of a number of commercial structures of so-called mobile complexes designed to listen to mobile phone calls. During a working meeting with the Chief Operational Staff of the External Intelligence Service, the documentation on the use and control of special technical equipment at the disposal of the IDB is examined. The fact that the use of these funds could not be determined by appointment, including on air control in Ukraine, has not been established. A working meeting was held with the Commissioner of the Supreme Human Rights Council, Nina Ivanovna Karpacheva. Arrangements have been reached for joint civilian and parliamentary monitoring of the activities of the forces in accordance with the Law on Democratic Civilian Control of the Military Organization and the State's law enforcement agencies. Relevant adjustments have been made to the Commission's workplans, including on the status of technical controls and their use in the regions of Ukraine. To this end, a number of missions are planned to the respective regions of Ukraine. A meeting was also held with the Head of the State Information Protection Service. A monitoring system has been studied to ensure the safety of telephone conversations by officials, including through government communications. It has now been established that comprehensive organizational and technical measures have been adopted, I stress, technical measures that exclude the possibility of listening to government communications, the so-called “percents” and HF-links. Such a technical possibility had previously been available. However, the Commission is currently organizing a review of the information received on the possible ongoing provocation by destructive elements, the essence of which is to compromise this service and its new leadership, including through the artificial design of hundreds of officials and the introduction into the information space of their telephone conversations as a result of the wiretap. This is intended by the perpetrators to create public outrage and to resuscitate the question of who should be subject to this service, the Cabinet of Ministers or the Secretariat of the President. On the basis of the above, given the available information on the availability of a wide range of listening and telephony equipment available in the free market, as well as office and accommodation facilities, as well as commercially available mobile telephone facilities, the Commission recommended that the National Security and Defence Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as legal policies, prepare and submit a proposal to the Supreme Council to strengthen criminal responsibility for the illegal entry into Ukraine of special technical controls, and to entrust the Ukrainian Security Service, border and customs services to take comprehensive measures to strengthen controls on the entry into Ukraine of technical equipment and complexes. The Commission also recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine take a decision on the scheduled hearing at Parliament's meetings of the reports of the leaders of the force structures with special technical tools at its disposal, on measures taken to eliminate the possibility of unauthorized use and on the effectiveness of their use in the search. The Commission also considers it appropriate to use the technical capabilities available in the Public Service for the Protection of Information and Information in the Ukrainian Security Service, other agencies, to carry out an additional inspection of the office premises of the highest officials of the State with a view to the possible identification of illegal equipment for the conduct of the hearing. The Interim Investigation Commission is continuing its work under the previously approved plan, and additional results will be reported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u27	Thank you, sit down, please. Let's get some information. The commission's working. I think the question is very important, because we will either protect and guarantee rights and freedoms as provided for in the Constitution, or we will always refer to circumstances that allow someone to listen, correct and influence someone's opinion. You know, one of the reasons why this committee was set up was because of the corresponding publications that were made about my conversation with one of the diplomats. And the investigation was that, as my countryman said, one of the heads of the cologne -- for the sake of clarity, instead of, that is, you can't go, you need private structures that make these records and so on, until I give the investigator the name that he did, the title, who held the meetings, who said not to release this information from the service, and so on and so forth. I mean, we need to continue this work, the publicity here is obviously unnecessary, because it's a shame for the state that it's doing this, but, nevertheless, people need to know -- the Constitution exists, the standards that are set out there, we need to follow these norms, and we need to ensure the secret of people's conversations among ourselves, communication, not to interfere in personal life and many other things, otherwise it's not democracy -- quasi-democracy. Therefore, let the commission work and dots over “and ” be made mandatory; the guilty will be held responsible for doing unworthy things. Dear colleagues, as we discussed ratification yesterday, we agreed that we would postpone consideration of this issue when the President's representatives are not alone. But today there is a very important document that cannot be postponed. This is about a loan agreement, the third project for repairing the Kiev-Chop road. This is a huge investment project that the state needs to make right. There's a conclusion from the Banking Committee on the usefulness of this case. A representative of the President would come in and say, "People good, ratify this agreement, because it's fundamentally important." However, on April 5, I repeat, April 5, the President commissioned him to report to the parliamentary session, but the committee is proposing to the rapporteur on this issue to make Deputy Homutinnik Vitali Juriovich. I want to give him my word on this, and then we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u28	Dear colleagues, the honourable chairman! The committee discussed, in the morning, the draft Law on the Ratification of the Credit Agreement for the Repair of the Kiev Road – Chop between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. I would like to point out that, as Alexander Alexander said, this is the law passed by the President of Ukraine, and given that this is a matter of strategic importance in order to build the third international transport corridor that passes through our country, it takes a certain amount of investment. But before we begin a statement on the substance of this framework agreement, I would like to draw attention to the fact that Parliament received the law from the President of Ukraine on April 5, because I think the President confirmed, including the legitimacy of the legislative body of our state, because on April 5, it is known that it was already after all the events. Basically, it's a question. This is about ratifying the third construction project of the Kiev-Chop Highway. I want to remind you that we have ratified similar agreements in the past. The first deal was Chop Strey, building a 214km area, where 75 million euros were allocated. The second ratification was from Stroj to Broda — 181 kilometers — 100 million euros. And today, to build this area from Chop to Zitomir, and from Zitomir, we know that there is a normal road to Kiev, we need another 677 and a half million euros to be involved. How is it planned to involve these costs in order to build an international transport corridor? Today we propose to ratify the deal by 200 million euros with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. The terms of this loan are: 15 years, and the term of the debt that doesn't return the body's credit and interest, four years later, we're returning some payments over the last 11 years, the whole amount of the loan together with interest. What percentages: percentages, according to committee members, are attractive enough for the state. This is about one percent and plus the Euroborg, which is now four percent, i.e. a total of five percent of the total. Where the rest of the other amount is going to be involved. 200 million euros are now being negotiated with the European Investment Bank, which intends to join in financing the construction of the area by 200 million euros if the agreement with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is ratified. So 400 million euros is the contribution of foreign institutions, international financial institutions. The rest of the other funds, i.e. 277.5 million euros, will be financed through own funding. At the expense of its own funds, Ukrawtordor plans to fund the purchase of equipment to maintain and operate the road, the value added tax that will be from construction and the cost of the road reform project, as well as the rest of the cost of repairing the road from Žitomir to Kiev. So once again, I want to point out that this road is, of course, there is, but in order to lead to the relevant international standards, we need to repair this area. So the total amount that I've already stressed is 677.5 million and a half euros. These are the costs that will be sufficient to build this transport highway. I want to point out that the Committee on Finance and Banking has not been able to look closely at how the previous tranches have been used, that is, from Chop to Stry and from Stry to Brod. When we considered similar questions in the last call, the Committee on Finance had the opportunity to go to the appropriate area, to look with its eyes built, how well it was built, and what prospects it would build. So today we can't answer how work is done on this area from Chop to Boat. If there are questions to the national MPs, and I would also like, frankly, to hear this information from the representative of “Kravtodor” in order to make an informed and informed decision. In view of the above, the committee decided to support the ratification of the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u29	The Question Is a Reporter? Yes. Please sign up. Six minutes. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u30	Thank you. I have a question for my colleague, a friend of mine. You say you haven't been able to go out there with the committee and so on and so forth. I'm asking you very much. Let's go, let's not go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's Look at the roads. If you didn't go, I want to tell you. I go to the Plains very often, in the direction of Chop. It's just horrible. It is embarrassing today to see large cars coming from Western European countries around the world. We're just embarrassed. Not to mention the harsh conditions in which transportation is carried out. And they say the road is life. So I urge you to stop any discussion. This is a very convenient ratification today, and I urge you to put it to the vote and support it immediately, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u31	I agree with you, Paul Ignatovich. But it's not just about whether it's a good project. We agree that the conditions proposed by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development are favourable. But it's about how well the money that Parliament has already ratified has worked. So today we've allocated 175 million euros, ratified. In addition, the cost of “Kravtodor” was involved, and that is how well Chop - Stry is made. You're from the Western country, you have to know what's done there. Unfortunately, I would like to point out once again that the President passed this law on April 5th, and the committee has only considered it at its meeting today, so I would still like to look at the quality of doing those robots.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u32	Vitaly Juryovich, you're making the right accent, but the point is that the project is being implemented at the right time, and because what the President may have submitted late doesn't mean that we have to be guided in the same way by a lot of procedures in order to deal with it later. We need to get the money. It's one of the tasks. And in terms of quality, there are services, and there are technical services in banks, and there are the KLAs, and let everyone else check how they're being used, because they're state-owned funds. That the roads there are good, I've driven there, really, but I don't think your committee controls the quality of the road, because it's a whole set of research that needs to be done. And to see for sure, you can leave at any time. And control over the use of these funds is definitely necessary, it's about large sums. That's why. Bronnick's, please, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u33	Vitaly Juryevich, two questions. The first little question is, how do you assess that the President presented us with a proposal for an urgent review of the ratification of this agreement on April 5, i.e. once the decree was signed, that is, what decision did he take? Second, do you think the Eurobank won't keep that money? For example, the Eurobank, which allocated money to the safety of nuclear stations, had already begun to detain. He says you have a political crisis, you'll figure it out first, or the money will be gone. Do you think we'll get the money from the Eurobank in time or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u34	Thank you for asking. Clearly, if there is a stable state situation, similar projects, investment projects will be implemented and international financial organizations will be happy to work with our state. As for the passing of the law to the President, I pointed out that the President had addressed the Supreme Council on just April 5th, after a well-known application for the dissolution of Parliament. Thus, I find it subjective that the President confirmed by this appeal the legitimacy of the legislative body. But let's give an estimate, I think there'll be others.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u35	Vitaly Yuriovich, it's not the President's function to confirm or not, it's stated in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u36	I see.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u37	And the President is acting in accordance with his functions, also realizing that Parliament is working, and some officials have not read the Constitution. Well, I think we'll enlighten them in our time and everything will be in place. And Parliament works as prescribed by the law itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u38	I agree with you, but we have heard statements from the President on several occasions that Parliament is illegal and that all decisions taken after April 2nd will also be illegal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u39	I didn't hear him say anything like that. That's what his subjects said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u40	I even went to a press conference yesterday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u41	Matthew. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u42	Thank you. Your Honor, first of all, you've already talked about this, but I would like to point out that your committee, perhaps as a profile, needs to look at the construction prospects, the future prospects for building this highway, because we're putting money there and we don't know what we have and what we'd like to have. That's the first one. It's different. In your opinion, or too much of a deal, I mean, the allocation of funds for the services of consultants and the commission for opening credits, that's just $3 million. IS this an international practice or something else? And this money will not go, first of all, to support the so-called opposition in carrying out the further anti-constitutional actions that we see in our country today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u43	Thank you. As for the points in the agreement regarding consultants and other things, these are standard terms that are laid down in appropriate credit agreements. And the previous credit agreements were with the same, with the same conditions. This is about the first question. As for the second question, I would like to draw attention again to the fact that the committee has control functions. And it's because of these control functions that he should consider the effectiveness of using previous tranches. But given that we didn't have time, I said as it is, as it is. We hope so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u44	Thank you. Thank you. Please sit down. Is there anyone who would like to make a statement? Yes. Chechetov, Urbanski, two want to make a statement. Right? Chechetov, then Urbanski. Okay. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters and journalists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u46	Mikhail Vasilovich, one second. Sergei Vasilovich, Sergey Vasilovich, don't say that in secret, because I hear what you're talking about. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich, report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters and journalists present in the sessional room. I want to show you a unique document so he can get into the cameras. It's on the President's letter to the Supreme Council. I'm reading. “In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on International Contracts, I am introducing a draft Ukrainian Law on the Ratification of a Credit Agreement between Ukraine and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.” Signature Yushchenka, date 5th April 2007. What's he talking about? This suggests that as early as the third day after the signing of this unfortunate decree, Victor Andreevich had seen and realized that his intellectually damaged, dilettante-trained team had simply gravely framed it by signing the decree. And he realized that it was just stupid that there was no parliament in the country. This will be the laughingstock of the whole world, this violation of the entire Constitution, and it is already very easy to move away from the subject, with five people calling on Parliament to consider this law. But I want Victor Andreevich to be consistent. The fact is that individual clerics in the Presidential Administration don't understand that. You might think that 20 people's deputies have come to the President's Secretariat, among them eight heroes of Ukraine and one of them two times Hero, the cleric comes out, the deputy head of Bondar's office, and says, "You don't do anything here, you're not deputies, you're simple mortals, even heroes of Ukraine. There's nothing to do in the sky in Banking. That is where the wicked work.” Victor Andreevich, get out of the work of this stone-cold official. I think the human morale chart in the Presidential Secretariat has fallen below the plitus. And yesterday. We welcome the fact that Victor Andreevich has already 5 numbers on the third day realized that he had been rudely framed and admitted that the decree was absolutely illegal in violation of the Constitution. We also welcome yesterday's presidential statement at the press conference, where he said that it was not actually up to 28, he once again demonstrated the intellectual damage to his team that had set it up. and the politicians who signed the decree. And we welcome the fact that we need to sit down and resolve the most difficult issues at the negotiating table. Victor Andreevich, but be consistent. Cancel this decree, which you simply, roughly speaking, have been framed to sign, and all problems with it in the country will be removed immediately. With regard to the bill itself, the bill really needs to be adopted and, I think, we will ratify it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u48	Thank you. Urban Igor Anatoliyovich. A thorough analysis was made by Mikhailo Vasilovich of the law on ratification. Igor Anatoliyovich Urbanski Why don't you have the wrong side card? Then go to the rostrum. Turn it on? So you can see someone from the opposition did a diversion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u49	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. PSU faction, Urbansky. Dear colleagues! I always say that any action my Government is taking to improve the transit capacity of our country is a good thing and must be supported worldwide. I have not heard in my colleague's report whether there has been a study of the multiplier effect that will result in the construction of this road in the subsidized areas of our country? But in the experience of the exploitation of the Atoba Odessa, let's put it this way, but you can see how well the entire infrastructure works along this road, how the land traveled, and how, in a sense, life comes into these areas of Umani, Sovrani, that's where life is the key. [[They're gonna have to get a little rough before the bus stop.]] I think it's a very good thing to build this road. And a little bit about credit. Credit is very profitable: three tranches of 200 million, five per cent of the annual. It's amazing. All we have to do is make sure that this money is properly spent. And I was a little surprised by my colleague, Homutinnik, when he said that there was no way to check it out. Who's holding you? Go and check, tell us, we'll know. I very much hope that we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u50	Thank you. Gnatenko, please. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u51	People's MP Gnatenko. I want to support this bill, because the Transport Corridors Programme has been under review for 10 years. For 10 years, our country is in the same state that we are in today. It was rightly said that our roads were awe - inspiring. And it's not enough that people coming from abroad on their cars, drivers, are getting a transport allowance as compensation for bad roads in our country. Therefore, the transport corridors programme provides for the construction of seven such corridors, which will go along and across our Ukraine, and will provide transit opportunities for our country. The country's transit opportunities are not just driving cars and huge amounts of money into the country's budget, they are still a huge amount of jobs for our people during construction and exploitation. I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u52	Thank you. We have a representative of the State Road Service, Eugen Dmitrovich Prussianko. Out of the way. By the way, where's Vladimir Fedorovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u53	I'm on my way. I am now in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u54	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear National Deputies! I would like to say, first of all, about the effectiveness of using previous loans. That's a painful question. I want to report that the credit report has been reviewed by the government committees and the Cabinet of Ministers in the established order and acknowledged that it will be successful. In addition, a separate technical audit is carried out by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the findings of this technical audit have acknowledged that the first loan from the repair of the Kiev-Chop road from Chop to Stry was recognized as one of the most successful loans we received. As far as the loan is concerned. We need it to bring the road from Brody to Zitomir, and then to Kiev for our expenses. It's going to be a multiplicative effect, it's going to be an increase in jobs, and an increase in the economy of adjacent regions. Credit, everyone said it's convenient, it's smaller than even projected inflation, 5 percent a year. I would like to support the ratification, given that the work is expected to start this year and finish in 2009. Thank you for your attention. If there's a question, I'm ready to answer it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u56	No questions, thank you. Deputies! May I put it to a vote? I am voting on the draft Law, just like the law, registration number 0069 on the ratification of the Credit Agreement for the construction of the Kiev-Chop Road. [[11:25:16]] For 257 Decision taken. I guarantee that today we will literally send this bill to the President for signature, because there are still many organizational arrangements to be made. I don't think there's going to be any delay. The next question and other questions are asked by the factions’ leaders to consider the simplified procedure. If you don't mind, I'm going to put them to a vote on a reduced procedure and so I'm going to ask you to determine. [[11:26:04]] For 259. A decision has been made, and 259 deputies support it. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Tourism Act is therefore under consideration. [[about advertising]] Report to the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Family, Youth and Sports, Dutch Boris Davidovich, please. Two minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u57	Dutch, Party of Regions. Dear Alexander Alexandrovic, distinguished deputies, the draft law under consideration today in amending the Tourism Act is relevant and necessary for the further development of the tourism industry in our country. The current law, as amended in 2003, contains a number of rules and provisions which are contrary to the articles of the Ukrainian Constitution. The norms of the Civil and Economic Codes, other applicable laws of the country. This is primarily part three of article five, which defines tourism as exclusive to the enterprise entity. The introduction of this rule into force in 2004 led to the restriction of competition in the tourism services market and facilitated the exercise. The monopolization of the tourism industry in its work into unequal legal and economic conditions. This article violated articles 13, 42 of the Ukrainian Constitution, article 3 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, articles 25, 29, 31, 43, 44 of the Ukrainian Economic Code and other legislation. Furthermore, the fact that tourism activities are often seasonal in Ukraine was not taken into account, i.e. during the inter-season period, that tourism was actually forced to stop work, which was contrary to public employment policies, job creation, and the skills of tourism personnel. The adoption of article 5 of the Act will further stabilize tourism enterprises and, above all, the development of small business in tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u58	Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, you were convincing in your report. Are there any who would like to support or comment? Oh, give me a very generous word from the committee of Deich Boris Davidovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u59	I would like to ask my colleagues to support this bill. The need for its adoption was clearly expressed at the meeting of the officials of the tourist and tourist sector of the country, which was held in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine during the day under the chairmanship of the Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco. On 6 March, the High Council Profile Committee supported the bill at its meeting. Please vote in favour of the proposed draft law on first reading and adopt it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u60	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If you want to make a statement, write it down. Either “for” or “against”. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, please. Give Catherine Samuel a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u61	Dear colleagues, I want you to listen to me. First, I ask you to read very carefully about the change. Article 4 is deleted entirely. And it's called "Forms and types of tourism." Please read. I don't understand the logic of this. Next. We're talking about legislation in force, that tourism is an exclusive activity. We're shutting it down. I mean, what are we doing to you? You can sell vodka like some tourist organizations that, among other things, have lobbyed this law, whatever you want to do, you will not be responsible directly for your activities. Next. We rule out that a voucher is a special document of strict accounting. That is, you, the honorary ministries, have paid for the services provided by the tourist company, but the voucher they give you is questionable. And you can never get these services in your life. Next. We rule out the fact that the state also relies on the documents of the World Tourism Organization. This is a specialized intergovernmental organization — the United Nations, to which Ukraine belongs! How can we rule that out?Oh, my God! I'm already silent, well, we want diplomatic institutions to be involved with us with tourism -- that'll be another matter. I don't insist on that anymore. But at all the other amendments, I don't think they're going to have a significant impact on the sector, but what they're going to do is destroy, the leaders, the industry, that's definitely what they're going to do. I would like this bill to be sent for further work. You can't take it like that. And it's a bunch that we're talking about, which, not even today, are thinking about, but the day before yesterday, and insists, not you, Boris Davidovich, I respect you, but I know who is lobbying this law. He's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u62	Thank you. You'd say who's lobbying right now, that would make sense. Okay. Please. Please. Dear colleagues, those who have signed up have spoken, but note article 4, as told by Catherine Simeonovna. Here. Obviously, it needs to be edited. Not to exclude, but to edit. Well, we read: “Despite the categories of persons who travel, travel, visit, their objectives, objects used or visited or other signs, there are the following types of tourism: children’s, youth, family, elderly, disabled persons, cultural-recognizable, healing-health, sports, religious, environmental, rural, underwater, mountain, adventurous, hunting, automobile, self-employed, etc.”. [[green]] That's, you know, who got it, who wrote it here. In the head. We had to write "forest, air" and so on. Well, that's ridiculous, you know. So you see, the authors thought, let's clean up all these things. I understand that some categories need to be defined clearly, but voting in the first reading is obviously necessary. Yeah? Then, according to the procedure, I place the vote on the first reading to vote this one. [[11:34:10]] For 231 Decision taken. Thank God I haven't ruined anything yet. The project is under review, registration number 2744 - amending certain Ukrainian laws on the development of state emergency rescue services and on measures to prevent and eliminate technological and natural emergencies. Danielne Mikola Alexiyovich will report. Is that what it says? And Zac Olesandra Viktorovich's report. Please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u63	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. Bill 2744 is before you. The basis of this bill. It is primarily linked to such three directions. Or the main objective of this law is the possibility of retaining the stress and disease of our children; the possibility of preventing, protecting and protecting human health and human life, its moral and psychological state; the prevention of the transition of disease that may occur in the performance of official duties to chronical services; and the creation of appropriate conditions for the development of public emergency services. In short, this law provides for the rehabilitation of rescue workers, those involved in the elimination of natural and man-made disasters and natural disasters. The bill also provides for the provision of mandatory money from the Cabinet of Ministers reserve fund in dealing with rehabilitation accidents, including, above all, children who fall within those territories. In particular, this, as in Melitopol, is allowed when warehouses have exploded, when floods in Zacarpaté and in a number of other technological or natural disasters. To date, the bill also provides for an increase in the provision for the strengthening of the logistics base of emergency services. In view of the fact that, in terms of funding, 39 million were allocated for 2006 and 30 million for this year. For comparison. More of these sectoral mine rescue services have 255. On the basis of the current situation, you are well aware that very often there is a situation in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u64	An offer to accept in the first reading. Have a seat, please. Zaz Alexander Viktorovich. Are you from, and the committee, a. Please miss Alexander Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u65	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, are invited! You have before you the draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Development of State Emergency and Rescue Services and on the Prevention and Elimination of Technological and Natural Emergencys, designed to create appropriate conditions for the development of public emergency services. To date, there has been a very difficult situation in Ukraine with regard to development, technical reconstruction of emergency services. Budget allocations for these services have been decreasing steadily. However, those affected by technological and natural emergencies, in particular children, citizens and rescue workers, who have been involved in emergency management, need systematic medical and psychological rehabilitation, as the consequences of constant psychological stress may persist for a long time. There is an urgent need for preventive measures aimed at strengthening the health and psychological status of rescue and rescue services, populations, and children affected by emergencies. The draft law provides for the introduction of concepts that define medical and psychological rehabilitation, medical care for emergency services, the introduction of a separate programme classification for medical and psychological rehabilitation of rescue workers, the introduction of a new article in the Ukrainian Emergency and Rescue Services Act on the development and implementation of five-year State-wide programmes for the development of emergency services. The implementation of the draft law would require financial costs from the State budget of Ukraine for the implementation of State-wide programmes. The calculations made by the specialists of the Ministry of Finance show that the expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine for this purpose will not exceed 10 and a half million grevens per year. I can do more. Well, then I won't be long to talk. In general, our committee has supported this draft law and requests you to adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u66	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss it? No, it's not. Then I put this project to the vote for adoption in the first reading. Please. [[11:40:14]] For 252 Thank you. Decision taken. For 252. Dear colleagues, the next draft of the Law, registration number 2812, amending article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Value Added Tax. There is only one change in this law. Vasily Grigorovich, wait a minute. That is, article 5 of the law refers to the fact that in paragraph 5.1.9 travel for sanatorium treatment and healing and recreation in Ukraine, individuals under the age of 18 are exempt from taxation. There is a conclusion of the committee that it can be done. Give Vasil Grigorovic the word, he will immediately convince us that we should vote in the first reading and final.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u67	That's right. Dear colleagues, the point is that children's health cities do not fall under this VAT exemption rule, if we only carry one word of recovery, this will be the case. Children's health camps, which will reduce travel by 20 per cent. Today, the cost of between a thousand and one and a half thousand per child's journey is going to be less than 200 or 300 bracelets. Therefore, there is a request for acceptance as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u68	Have a seat, please. Do you wish, Alexander Mikolaiovich, to confirm your demand? Give Stoyan a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u69	Dear colleagues, I want to confirm why, because, in fact, tens of thousands of children are going to health and this cost of travel, VAT, it makes it difficult, it makes the trip better. But here's one thing I want to say, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, so that everyone knows that the cost of travel is going to be, the budget is going to be a little short on certain amounts. And so that Ukrainian citizens know that the coalition and government are going to meet with Ukrainian children and citizens today, because about tens of millions will not get the budget, but the government has agreed and is going consciously, because the recovery of children is sacred. Therefore, the withdrawal of VAT will lead to an improvement in the situation of children, but it reduces the arrival of execution. But this is done by the State and the government consciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u70	Thank you. The Committee on Finance, Mikhail Vasilovich, what does he think about this? Melniczuk, please, briefly, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u71	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Added Cost Tax Act aims to eliminate the gap between legislative and regulatory acts that regulate tax exemptions for the added cost of travel operations for urban, stationary and school health camps that accept rest and health care. The committee invites the Supreme Council to accept as a basis and consider the possibility, if there are no comments, of accepting it as a whole. Since this applies to the fact that in a month or so, these camps will begin to work and these differences will not be removed, it is certainly possible to consider the matter in order to accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u72	Thank you. Have a seat. Can I put it to a vote? I'll bet you a vote. For adoption both in the first reading and in general as a law, please. [[11:44:09]] For 261 Decision taken. The draft Law 3189 is similar by procedure. Because it's about overkills, about rehabilitating to article 4 of the Ukrainian Rehabilitation Act on Women After Mastectomy. Regrettably, today’s woe for Ukraine has caused many women to undergo such operations. And it is predicted that the benefits will extend to citizens who are recognized by disabled people, families of disabled people, children with disabilities, people with disabilities, people with disabilities, people with disabilities, including people without citizenship and women after mastectomy. Many letters to this effect have been compiled and asked to be supported by Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Peter Stepanovich, can this law be voted on or not? Please give the floor to the committee head, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, I think he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u73	Thank you, dear colleagues. I really support the words that Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich has said at this time. This document was developed by a group of disabled organizations in Ukraine and I am, in fact, the author, in fact, legally, and it was developed by a disabled organization. This committee, this bill is supported by a committee. And what's more, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm drawing your attention to the fact that we can vote not only in the first reading, but in general with one comment made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which concerns clarifying how the basic law applies to women after mastectomy only in the provision of their prosthetic and orthopedic products. I mean, with this warning, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy can vote not only on the first reading, but on the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u74	Right. I mean, it's prosthetics, too. About prosthetics, not the distribution of all the benefits that are predicted. And that's why the government supports this proposal. Let's take this observation into account, let's take this law as the law on the first reading, if there's no objection to MPs. I won't. Then I put this proposal to the vote. [[11:46:55]] For 258. It's an adopted law, thank you. Registration number 3179. The draft Law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments That Are Not Privatized Minister of Culture and Tourism Bogacki Yuri Petrovich, please give you two minutes to convince the deputies of the need to uphold this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u75	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not subject to privatization, has been designed to implement Ukrainian laws on the protection of cultural heritage and the temporary prohibition of the privatization of cultural heritage. The bill was based on local self - government proposals, which resulted in a total of 2,082 monuments. In general, there are 131,000 monuments in Ukraine. There are appropriate criteria under which this has been developed, in line with the relevant Committees of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, Culture and Spirituality and the Special Committee on Privatisation for Adoption in the First Reading. This bill is considered and approved for submission to the Supreme Council by the government. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to vote in favour of this bill, to accept it as a basis. The Ministry of Culture and Government assures us that all proposals, comments that will come from national MPs will be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. What will Mikhail Vasilovich Chechtov say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u77	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on the List of Cultural Heritage Monuments, which is not subject to privatization, is designed to implement article 18 of the Ukrainian Cultural Heritage Protection Act, which relies on the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the act. The list is designed to provide State control in the area of memory protection, preservation of state and municipal property for certain cultural objects in Ukraine. The list includes monuments of history, architecture, monumental art, which have preserved authentic evidence of outstanding historical events, the lives and activities of prominent individuals, prominent places of value from a scientific, historical, artistic point of view. Suggestions for including memories in this list have been approved by the council’s decisions. In the drafting of the bill, it did not include memorial sites, parts of monuments containing housing funds, housing units, and privatized buildings after the decisions had been made. The adoption of the law will allow for the preservation of Ukraine’s most important cultural heritage in state and municipal property, as well as investment in the protection of other monuments, which can reduce the burden on the State budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of this bill on the basis of the following comments and proposals made. In particular, the Directorate General proposes that article 2 of the Final Provisions of the Bill be supplemented by a new paragraph 3, which states that the Ukrainian Act “On the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage Monuments” has been repealed, since article 1 prohibits the privatization of cultural heritage monuments before the Supreme Council approves a list of cultural heritage monuments that are not subject to privatization. The committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u78	Thank you. Is there a need to discuss this? Dutch and Bondarchuk are requested. Please. Dutch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u79	Yuri Petrovich, I support this bill, but it is not essential that we record a list of the art architecture's monuments that are not to be privatized, but that each of these monuments must be addressed. On page 107 of this annex, the Council of Sofia, with its complex, is page 6 of the Sudak Fortress. But Sudak Fortress has been part of the Council for 20 years for some incomprehensible reason. No one's working, no money's being invested, and we can't get near it anytime soon. I would like to ask Yuri Petrovich, the Ministry of Culture to become the master of this fortress and to take care of it, because Sofia is very far away and not at arm's length.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u80	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u81	Dear colleagues! Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Of course, today we must vote in favour of this bill, to accept it as a whole. What surprises me is that the great fighter for preserving the cultural heritage of Yavorowski, the head of the committee, instead of doing his job -- preparing the necessary bills for consideration in the Supreme Council -- is not doing what the Ukrainian National Deputy should be doing today. And it's only pathetic about that. And so I urge you to vote in favour of this bill as a whole or in the first reading, if you're going to propose to the committee and in the first reading to work on it, and this is a very necessary law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u82	Thank you. Using the fact that Yuri Petrovich had already received a question from Boris Davidovich Dach, I wanted to complete or develop this question in such a way that we have here the whole law is essentially a list of objects that are not subject to privatization, more than 130 pages. How can complementing be done by MPs or other entities of the legislative initiative when they look at this list that the uninhabited type of historical and cultural monuments that somehow came out of this list? Where can they see them? In a published law. Before that, I'm afraid that this law or draft law will be ineffective. And changes to it are basic: other proposals are made or taken off. So look, I'd like to ask you how would you look at the Bondarchuk proposal to finally accept it, although on the other hand there are some questions related to the need to refine the first reading itself. Yuri Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u83	Alexandre Alexandrovich, you're right about what could be accepted in general, but when considered on a committee, on a special committee, there are some wishes to be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-13-m0.u84	Okay. Then I put to the vote the proposal to adopt this law in the first reading. And I'd ask the initiators to work on it without expecting the opposition to be those initiators. [[11:55:01]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been given a draft of questions that will be under consideration in the next plenary week, so I'd like you to study this very carefully. On Monday at the Conciliation Council, you will, on behalf of the committees and factions, express your thoughts on the agenda, and we will be determined on this issue, and in the meantime, declare our meeting closed, wish you success in these days. Meet with your opposition colleagues, invite them to work because they have responsibilities. Thank you.
