ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished MPs and other members of the meeting, distinguished radio and television audiences! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Put your cards in. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:53]] There are 264 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. Let us welcome the birthday of the absent person at the meeting of Kirilenka Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. We wish him good health and success in his work and politics. We have time to communicate on the subject of work, perspectives, tasks to be decided, according to the decision of April 4. I'd like us to exchange our thoughts on this. Then it should be borne in mind that today we have in the order of the day information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the state of affairs in agriculture in connection with drought in many parts of Ukraine. And I would like us to look closely at this, because it is fundamentally important, including for informing the population about the prospects for bread and not just bread. I think it's also interesting and important, and then we'll talk about the issues that are being predicted today. Please sign off on the faction wanting to make a statement. Now individually, please, who would like to. Thank you. Oh, well, there's more. Before the meetings began, I was asked how to react to a note that was considered reliable by the President to the embassies of other countries, that the Supreme Council was invalid, could not work, and should come out in contact with it. I wanted to say that even in the President's decree, which is questionable, from the point of view of conformity of the Constitution, there is no such thing. So calmly react, and we have seen more than one error that has sometimes been corrected by the President, and sometimes they continue to do so. Parliament is working. It is composed of 450 national deputies today. Some of them are not present at the meeting, but this does not mean that Parliament cannot work in accordance with the Constitution. I can refer to such a ruling or a decision of the Constitutional Court for clarification by the Constitutional Court, which has been made in due course. During the consideration of issues that take the form of laws in Parliament, 226 national deputies may be present at the meeting. Today there are 264 under registration and, don't worry, everyone will be in place, everything will be fine. For the time being, the word comes from the faction Savosin Hennaday Anatoliyovich instead of Bulba and then Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u2	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected radio listeners. National Deputy of Ukraine Savosin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Last week's events have led us to some conclusions about our President's statements and actions. Pathological disapproval of him and his manual constitutional reforms forced the President to seek out similar ones and then to support them with illegal, anti-constitutional actions. The question is: in which State would the parliamentary minority be able to dissolve an active parliament, a parliament that was elected for testimony and observers and the President himself as a result of honest transparent elections. Answer: In orange Ukraine, where there is legal lawlessness established by the Bank’s Secretariat. It should be noted that the Jews did not have enough. They had more than the mandate of the Ukrainian national deputy. They wanted to be prime minister, ministers, and other authorities to distribute and rule. But it's one thing to want. It's another thing to know. Much has been said about his brother’s skills. That is why the so - called political parliamentary crisis was about to be fought in which human blood was to manifest itself. Thanks to the courageous position of the Ministry’s minister, Tsushka did not succeed. However, the Presidential Council cannot calm down; it must punish those who refused to do what was planned. Cases have arisen against Tsushka, a man who essentially saved Ukraine. And in the parking lot of our capital there is a slogan and a minister's support. And then we, the people's deputies, must work together to protect Vasil Petrovich. On June 5, the President promulgated his next anticonstitutional decree, which deals with the appointment of consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Much has already been said of the legal so - called purity of this document. Yet, the President does not seem to have enough of this. And at the diplomatic corps meeting, he declares, on behalf of the State of Ukraine, the Supreme Council is not legitimate in international relations. It's too much and it needs some grades from the Supreme Council. The opposition forces, led by the President, often communicate, speculate that the people are the bearers of power. Then you should ask the traitors of the people's interests, and you asked people if they needed a timely election and whether they supported your act, anticonstitutional, anti-legal action. The answer is familiar, but the words are one and the actions are another. Because why ask, when people need just to get to power, it's better to knock people's heads off that nothing's going on, like they're picking seats on a power Olympic, scaring them with scarecrows. And in fact, there's been a coup d'état and it's Ukraine that needs to know. Yes, people should evaluate those who, despite their support, try to ignore the confidence of voters by swearing by the Ukrainian national deputy. This opposition is trying to escape with the help of its President, who wants to change the principles that shape the political order of Ukraine, and hence the stability, the opposition, the balance of power. It's not like that. Does not this expression resemble the action of one political actor, in paws, “last century, ” which ended his new order, we remember. It's very dangerous, by the way, he also started with the parliament. And those who today look forward to a high percentage of support make a big mistake that stops the fight. The early elections, the problem of ambitious politicians will not be solved, the futile efforts are two ways. The first is to give the President of Ukraine the authority that was at Kuchma, yet he is the son of his father, and that is when he will usurp power. Second, to bring them to the power of presidents of European states, they, the opposition, for European choice. The second will force, especially willingly, to satisfy its appetites, and the President will become President of all Ukraine and will thus arise a political crisis. In general, enough gentlemen to play democracy with an anti-constitutional, anti-legal face directed by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u3	Please, Simonenko, the Communist faction, prepare Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u4	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. As we examine Yushchenka's next decree on the appointment of early parliamentary elections, we find confirmation that history repeats itself twice: once as a tragedy, second as a farce. In this case, a farce with the President's “prominent graffiti ” can turn into a tragedy for the entire nation. It is also obvious that to prove to the President, his secretariat and the Presidential proclamations that the constitutionality and the legality of the grounds for declaring the Supreme Council ineffective and the appointment of the successive elections, as outlined in the June 5 decree, is a futile matter. Political arrangements have a prospect only on one condition -- when they're based on the law. And the President's meeting with the diplomats, his presumptuous attitude towards the laws of Ukraine, only shows that it is easier for the bee to learn how to talk than for President Yushchenka to respect the laws and observe the Constitution of his own State of Ukraine. If we even reject disputes over the procedure for the representation of members of parliaments that are certainly not of interest to people, there are several points that need to be highlighted by society and brought to the citizens all the wrongness and deceitfulness of orange leaders at the head of Yashchenk. And you should say: First, when the authors of the June 5th decree and the president who signed it without reading it, it's not a royal matter of his own decrees to read, they claim that it's impossible to restore two thirds of the Supreme Council's constitutional composition, they lie openly. Because in exchange for those who have given up the MP's mandate, the next one is due on the list. And I would like to turn from all of us today, honourable colleagues, to the Central Electoral Commission very seriously and carefully analyze this situation, so that it will not be possible to repeat the same thing at all, in violation of the laws and the Constitution. Today, the lists of BUT and “Our Ukraine” are not covered by the Law, because there are lawsuits in the courts concerning the legality of decisions between party assemblies of these blocks. Such are the same lies and do not tolerate any criticism of the reference of the authors of the new presidential decree to the Constitutional Court's decision, because that decision applied to a completely different electoral system, mixed and cannot be used to interpret the norms of the new proportional electoral system. It's different. The agreement between the President, the Prime Minister and the Speaker, I do not hide my criticism of these agreements, cannot be the basis for the revision of the laws and the Constitution, since the first paragraph of the decree of June 5 is directly violated by the 106th article of the Constitution, which, by the way, is referred to by the authors of this absurd decree. I remind you, 106 articles, this article deals with the President's right to appoint, on an orderly basis, elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine within the terms established by the Constitution, namely, articles 77, 60 days from the end of parliamentary powers. There is no word in the decree of June 5 concerning the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council, no reference to article 90 of the Constitution, which provides exclusive grounds for this. On the other hand, the date for the election is September 30. From June 5 to September 30, it was 117 days, not sixty days. This could even be a circus poodle. Thus, there is good reason to believe that this decree does not correspond to the Constitution and does not entail any legal basis; it is a decree on the usurpation of power. And third, the main thing. Taking into account the President's decree to terminate the Supreme Council's mandate on 26 April, the absence of a confirmation of the legality of the decisions of BUT and Our Ukraine regarding the exclusion of deputies from their factions and the re-establishment of the electoral lists, we can state that there is no reason to believe that the Supreme Council is ineffective. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is working. The Communist faction also works as a coalition, and we do everything we can to ensure that the laws that are passed are passed for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of our state. And the last. Conclusion. The haste with the issuance of another open, absurd and illegal decree shows that there is no motive for the holding of consecutive elections, and the efforts of the President and his supporters to close their mouths to the Supreme Council, to close their mouths with the people's will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u5	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u6	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, we have seen that the President has recently taken an active course in Ukraine. It's as if it's a good thing to help cope with the drought, to inform what it's doing, and it's supposed to be no other purpose for the President to travel to Ukraine. Here's a document -- the President's concept of regional visits for the period May-July 2007, approved by Vasjunik. What's going on here? I'm quoting a document. Objective: Regional visits should be a fundamental element of the strategy of increasing the rating of both the President and the pro-President political forces. The task of regional visits: to raise the President’s level; to increase the number of voters who vote for the presidential democratic forces; to remind of the positive achievements associated with the President and the orange revolution; and to restore the image of the people’s President, who has a direct connection with the people. What is further suggested in this concept? Topics: “Leadery in which the presidency can strengthen”, “The fight against corruption”, “The increase in minimum wages and pensions based on the provision of optimal non-detainable housing-communal tariffs”. Next. Well, that's the concept. Please listen very carefully. The script should predict the whole scenario: communication with the average people in a normal environment: streets, schools, hospitals and shops, and houses, encounters with politicians, businessmen, but without cameras and journalists; the maximum avoidance of political themes, in the spotlight of man and his needs. Next. The accent is on. changes in the country. Next. The mandatory delivery of three initiatives, which are repeated on each visit. And now the journalists' attention to you, because they say there are no jailers anymore, and it turns out, in this scenario, there are tasks, requirements for a telegraph visit. Visits called to form a warm picture of the President's association with ordinary people. Objective: To strengthen confidence in the President and "The President is concerned about the problems of ordinary citizens and is taking concrete steps to address them, to renew the image of the People's President". Television cameras, carefully telejournalists, should not be political, local leaders, or businessmen. The meetings are to be held separately, without journalists. There should be free space between the cameras and the President, no guards or journalists themselves. Importantly, it is emphasized that journalists and photographers are to be shielded from the President and focused in one place because their chaotic placement will inevitably fall into the field of vision by television cameras, and they are negatively perceived by television viewers. Nor should there be any machines that accompany the President. So this is the scenario that the President is driving through. And it says here that he has to travel two days a week across Ukraine to the elections. That's why he's going to Ukraine and what he's doing there. He is not concerned about social benefits, he is not concerned about drought, he is not concerned about political stability. He cares about his own image as a national president. He is concerned about the image of political power and so forth. So I'm talking to Ukrainian citizens, if the President comes to you or to school or to the hospital or to the field, don't believe that he's here to listen. He came to show the journalists a good picture of communication with the people. Look at the picture, but don't believe what the President is doing. Believe the power that is now in Parliament, which is working on laws, and which is doing everything to ensure the stability of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u7	Hanna Herman, please. Behind her is Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u8	It seems to me that before those instructions from the President's technology, it's been forgotten that when the President goes to the people's field, he has to take off the snowballs. Because it's not a good image of the President when he's in a field with white heels walking around and afraid to grease them. But that's true, for a word. Dear colleagues, dear fellow journalists! Since the second part of our Parliament is already resting on the islands and frying in Crimea, we must work for them and for ourselves. Yesterday a community delegation from the village of Pasivka, in the region of Lviv, came to see me. Those people came to me with a request that I ask you to protect them from the aberration of the local orange authorities. Before the elections, these people told me, they were told, "Don't vote for Yanukovich, for Yanukovich will come and take away your land." Janukovic came to power, and the land was taken by orange officials from the local authorities. So in the village of Pasiuk of the Desert region, people want to take 375 hectares of land that they own and give it to companies behind which are the heads of the local district administration and those representatives of the President's Secretariat that come from the Lviv region. People are forced to give up that land, people are called into the police force, they are held there long, they are forced to write statements of refusal to do so. People are told to write letters officially under the signatures of representatives of the Lviv administration, threatening them that if they refuse, they will not voluntarily surrender the land, they will be called to criminal responsibility. And if they try to block roads in protest, there is also an article and so on. People called local journalists. It's about the dungeons and freedom of speech that we celebrated so widely yesterday. And local TV journalists took off the story about the problem, but the head of the firm came to them and said: “Here’s your story, I bought it without TV, you’re not going to do anything to me.” I beg of you, fellow journalists. This Sunday at 16 p.m. in the village of Pasík Pustomitov district will be the east of those peasants who are asking us and asking everyone to protect their land because they have nothing left. If orange power takes that away, people will starve. Go there and make independent, free stories, show it to all of Ukraine. I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u9	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u10	I'm going to the Attorney General's Office to deal with this. I'm ready to hand over all the documents that people have handed over to me. And I'm addressing you, fellow MPs, to protect the people of the Lviv region from the fall of orange power! Whether they vote for it or not, it's our duty to protect them, because they are the citizens of our state and they are, you see, protected by no one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u11	Mikola Sadowa. Please, the mosquito is behind him. He's handing over to Baraniv Alexander. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u12	Thank you, Nicholas Illich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, distinguished ones! I have spoken on several occasions about the immorality of Mr. Winsky’s behavior, who, by raping the BUT faction, has forced them to write statements of withdrawal from the faction, and he has not written such a statement. So yesterday, a document appeared on the BUT website that Mrs. Timoshenko asked Mr. Winsky not to file an application for an exit from the PPE faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I quote: “According to the list of the Socialist Party instead of Winsky, a person who will participate in immoral voting together with the entire faction led by the Speaker of the Frost. The work of Winski in Parliament is a minus one socialist vote against Ukraine." Dear colleagues, in the year of Pigs, individual politicians conduct themselves accordingly. If you don't write an application for an exit from the faction, it's an extreme double moral: it forces one of them and it doesn't set an example. If there is no one who will vote, as they say, immorally, in their concept of Winsky, who began his first departure from the faction and the drive to BUT, he is a moral man. The request of the leader of BUT to Winsky not to write a statement is a recognition of the effectiveness of the Supreme Council. To claim that another person will come to the place of the Vinsky, that is to say, the legitimate Supreme Council. And minus one socialist voice, what she's talking about, I want to say that Winsky is doing his part with honor in the BUIT after the collapse of this faction. And when we don't have these elections in the Supreme Council, I'm convinced that the Viennese will bring the BUT faction minus 10 percent, as a minimum, for which I'm extremely grateful. And next, we're going to work on the 2008 budget. I spoke to the government as a whole yesterday. But yesterday, there was a meeting of the U.S. civil protection organization for children of war, and they're addressing Mr. Papiev, the minister of social policy and work, which is still Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, now, in the protection of children of war law, in the 2008 budget, in the implementation of the law on children of war. And another thing, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, I would ask that perhaps the time has come for me to invite the MPs who wrote the statements tomorrow, whether they read their statements, to remove all the accusations that the Supreme Council, he said, would not want to make any or any other decisions. We're going to find out tomorrow whether there's 151 curtains or not, and we're going to answer the question, who's telling the truth, and who's lying, whether there's statements, whether there's no statements, whether there's a Supreme Council or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u13	Please, Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Korsak's Alexia.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u14	Nikolai Komar, faction of the Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, Ukraine does not live in an isolated environment and the opinion of the world public, our immediate neighbours, has always been important for Ukrainian policies and society. We have accepted with respect the views and recommendations of PACE, the European Parliament, the officials of the European Union, the heads of other States, to whom the development of our country and the fate of Ukraine is inconsequential. Therefore, Putin’s point of view should be taken from the general context and put on the shield of anti-Russian hysteria foolishly and ridiculously. Russia is interested in a stable, predictable, short-term and long-term situation in Ukraine, and Europe is also interested. It should not be forgotten that 80 per cent of energy supplies to Europe pass through Ukraine. Therefore, we should not seek and appoint an external enemy. Ukraine itself must demonstrate itself to be a country capable of finding a balanced, reasonable solution that lies exclusively in the legal field. Management only by political decisions. This is a step towards a permanent shift in priorities, instability and, accordingly, the economic insolvency of the country. Both the European Community and Russia and the United States have always stressed the priority of finding a legal solution to the political crisis. Only the existence of laws makes the country predictable for peace, for investors, offers prospects in global economic and political processes. At the same time, Putin's statement cannot but be extorted. This is a sign that Ukraine can lose confidence not only in Russia, but also in other strategic partners because of its unpredictability of political development and unpredictability. I will allow myself to go beyond the laws and the Constitution. The chances of returning from illegal permissiveness will be very few, since the temptation to repeat everything in the event of another unfavorable situation is too great. The political crisis in Ukraine must be resolved as soon as possible, but only in the legal order. There is no need to give up for the great achievement of democracy a political adventure experiment that can take a long time to push the country out of normal progressive development, the logic of common sense and progressive capacity-building. The President of Ukraine and the opposition may need to reflect on the integrity of the chosen methods of political struggle, when the prospects for economic development and long-term investment programmes can be lost in the fight for “the purity of the political experiment”. [[& Tiles]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u15	Thank you. Please, Alexy Korsakov. Jaduzka, please. To be prepared, the Mordovian is handing over Bondarchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. I would like to express the opinion of the members of the Hmelni district organization of the Party of the Regions, which I am in charge of, regarding the so-called permanent suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decree of the President of Ukraine regarding the proper conduct of the elections. Members of the Hmělničina Region Party and its supporters do not support the so - called political or lukewarm resolution of the question of the holding of elections without objective legal basis and outside the Constitution for a single reason. If this happens in the future, it will lead to total legislative chaos, restrictions on the powers of the Supreme Council and the return of the totalitarian system of power by the Secretary of the President. The members of the Party of Regions support the opinion of our leader, Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic of Ukraine, that elections, if any, will be held only on legal grounds and that the Party of Regions, which is actually working to improve the standard of living of people, will take part in them. We support the efforts of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the coalition as a whole to bring this process back to the legal field. But the inhabitants of Hmělnična ask the question, Who needs this election, what benefit does it bring? Of course, they are not needed by the Ukrainian people for more than half of whom they are not supported, but they feel that they do not care. There can be no benefits other than chaos and budget spending. But all they need is the opposition, that is, the merchants of intrigues, to satisfy their shallow, cynical, sudden desires to return to the power trough from which they ate, but did nothing to develop the Ukrainian economy. This is also testimony to the fact that today, while waving so - called statements that do not have the authority of deputies, without taking part in the work of the Supreme Council, they are shamelessly using hotels, offices, garages, assistants, and so forth. So where is their truth? The President has repeatedly stated that elections will take place honestly, democratically without falsification, that such manifestations will be criminalized. If anyone else believes that, he has either fallen out of heaven or just a propane. In the previous elections to the Hmelnicke Supreme Council, we discovered a site where votes for the Party of Regions were suddenly thrown into the lists of dwarf parties and something was achieved in the orange west of Ukraine is virtually not real. What is being prepared for major counterfeiting also says the rush with which the election dates are called. It seems that under the full authority of the oranges, who, by the way, destroyed the region’s personnel elites over the course of the year, putting people in positions without professional skill, common sense, and only on the basis of personal devotion, have long been described as the percentage and political power of which they have set aside. Or the fact that the illegal high school students of the U.S.R.P.O.A. were pressured by law enforcement authorities on recent Kiev events. The conclusion is that those who believe that the will of the people will not be corrupted are the great optimist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u17	Thank you. Ivan Bondarchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u18	National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine It's vinyl. As my colleague from the Alexander Baranowski faction has already said, there has been information on the site of “Ukraine’s Truth” that Julia Timoshenko has granted permission to her new party deputy not to write a statement or to draw up parliamentary credentials on the ground of not allowing him to be replaced by the next candidate from the SPI, from which this gentleman is elected as a deputy, and therefore not to be able to strengthen the coalition. Of course, the leader of the Führer Party, which is the Fatherland Party, may give any instructions to his deputy, but he is not a member of the BUT Deputy faction, because according to the Constitution, a deputy elected by the list of one party or the electoral bloc cannot enter into another faction without losing his mandate. That is why we are able to demand of Winsky, since he is one of those who insists on developing powers for others, twisting the hands of the deputies of the BUIT, writing an application for himself, and putting the parliamentary powers first. We wait, we cannot wait for him to write such a statement, for if he does not do so, we will have reason to believe that the Lord of Winn is guided, not even by a double, but by a triple moral. Joseph Vicentiovich! Aah! Where are you? Where's your application? Carry it immediately, we are satisfied with it beyond any turn. The other one. As far as the legitimacy of the Supreme Council is concerned. I want to show you about. A document that has just come in and registered with the President of Ukraine, he asks the Supreme Council to make some changes to the laws in force. So he recognizes our legitimacy because he sends these documents and asks them to look at them. Apparently the right hand doesn't know what the left hand is doing? That's why there's a matter that needs to be addressed in the secretariat. And the second. This is where we work, they say they work -- they don't work. There are a lot of deputies working from the BIT factions, by the way, and we welcome them and think they're doing the right thing. And the last. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I propose, on the basis of the Rules, to make proposals to Parliament for amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine, to vote in the first reading, to refer them to the Constitutional Court so that we can accept them as a whole in September. Why? Because if we do not make these changes, we will not remove the reasons and grounds for ambiguous interpretation of some constitutional provisions after even the elections if those elections take place. But we need to protect ourselves from those who do not know how to read the Constitution, who resist the spirit of the Constitution, rather than read its letter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u19	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up to announce statements, messages, information. Let us turn to the questions set out today in the order of the day. As we agreed yesterday, we need to include in the agenda and consider a draft regulation amending paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation on certain measures to ensure the implementation of the provisions of part two, paragraph 6, of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[10:37:48]] For 256 Decision taken. Let me give you a brief overview of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, in this room and outside the session hall, it has already been said that the decision to convene the political blocs of Yulia Timoshenko and “Our Ukraine” is legally worthless. What happened on Saturday did not have the legal right to take place. Because formal, once again, formal confirmation is needed that a national MP has left the faction or another faction. Article 60 of the Rules states that such official confirmation is the publication, the announcement by the chairman of the session of the Supreme Council at the following time of the submission of the relevant statement to the chairman that such a statement had come, which says that the national deputy had thus come out of the faction of one or another. Only then could legal preconditions arise for the holding of assemblies. Even if this action were to take place, that is, an official declaration, according to article 81 of the Constitution, which is referred to by those who hold the meetings, such meetings cannot be held until such meetings occur. I request the attention of Stoyan and the other regions, either leave the session room and argue there or be present at the meeting. I'll give you my word for it only on the next call.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u21	When will that be?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u22	It'll be five years from now. Because 81 articles of the Constitution, which is referred to daily and every day by those who act as such initiators, directly states that the removal of MPs, national MPs, is only possible on the basis of law. There is no such law in nature, and that is why, once again, it does not meet the legal requirements. and is not a condition for holding those meetings that have already been held. The need for an introduction, the need for an amendment just as proposed by a decree that we recently passed, is also dictated by the fact that after the statements that were written on April 18th yet, some of them were written to the President, part of the political party leaders, part of the Supreme Council, and how they themselves spoke, and here our colleagues said that on April 18 they had signed these statements for the purpose of political pressure on the President to issue a new decree on the holding of the successive, pre-ordered elections. Then, according to the decree, we began to demand an official notice. These official reports have been received from the National Deputies of BUT and “Our Ukraine”. But then the Supreme Council's apparatus comes up with statements from the National Deputies and these factions, which recall their previous statements, in which they directly say that they wrote these statements for a different purpose and that they have no intention of leaving the factions and leaving the parliamentary mandate. And so that there are no, as one of the deputy heads of the BUT faction says, quite often he repeats that everything was legal, honest and transparent -- this is a colleague of Hubsky's, his favorite phrase. In order for everything to be legal, honest and transparent, we need to write down in the regulation the words that “such official statements shall be announced by the chairman of the session in the presence of the national deputies, those who have written these statements.” Whatever it is, we don't know what his statement is right, since April 18th, or the next one he filed, so he doesn't count that statement by the one he wrote. To be fair, as we were informed by the profile committee on behalf of you, you know, a colleague of Netzka was speaking to the regulatory committee, and among those statements that were made, 45 signatures did not match the reality. That's why it's suggested that the chairman call the name that the statement is, and the MP in the room, if he didn't deny that it's his statement, then he'll be considered to really be that statement. And if the MP says that he didn't write such a statement that it wasn't his signature and he doesn't want to leave the faction and leave the Supreme Council, then there will be another situation. Here's what I'm stressing again. There is a need for a decision to amend paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain measures to ensure the implementation of the provisions of section 6 of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. If you have any questions. You don't? There's a question. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u23	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's a faction of socialists. Alexander Baranowski. Dear national MPs, our constituents! In association with the BUT People's Deputies, in particular, I stress, from the BUT faction, they point out that they made certain statements, and that some even pure letters signed in 2005, when the voter list was formed, means that in the “Fatherland” party of the BUT electoral bloc, which was held in March 2006. These deputies point out that there was no language at the time, that these statements would be used in order to put an end to the mandate of a member of parliament for a period of time. And so in order to protect these deputies, to protect them from the party's adversities from the BIT leadership, we really have to support the proposal Adam Ivanovich made and accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Petrovich. Your words are no longer a question, but confirmation of what we really need to make a determination to personally confirm by our presence, by our word, the session hall, that he wrote such a statement. I'm asking again. Questions or Speeches? Questions. Then sign up. At first, there were no wanters, and now there are. Please sign in. Yeah, let's take six minutes. Lapin, please. Infantry. Infantry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u25	Adam Ivanovich, I have some experience in creating parliamentary powers. In 1998, I was appointed because I was not elected. I took a job book. A passing letter came through. I gave up everything that belonged to me, and what belonged to the Supreme Council I gave up, that is, I fully counted with the Supreme Council. Now I don't understand everybody's driving. There's a message that he needs to get the money and everything else, and it's like he gave up or didn't give up the authority. It is necessary that one of them should go through this procedure fully, as is the case with labour law. He breaks off his employment ties with the Supreme Council and this is a complete execution, as prescribed by law, decree and so forth, and everything else is from the wicked one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u26	Vladimir Yuliyovich, you're absolutely right, if the legal consequences of these decisions that we're talking about come to pass, each of the national MPs will be deprived of the office of employment, each of the national deputies will be deprived of the assistants who are now counted for it, they will be counted. Two factions of the Block of Timoshenko and the faction of our Ukraine, although there is an opportunity in the Block of Timoshenko to create another faction, they have about 26, about 30 people's deputies, and they can form. It's the same in "Our Ukraine" because it didn't re-establish the lists. If that doesn't happen, they'll be eliminated, sorry for that word, secretarial of both factions and so on. You're absolutely right. The same will not be applied to the right of free passage and the right to call on cars. If there is legal confirmation of all of this, I said about the helpers, they will no doubt be adequately deprived of the rights and opportunities they have under the Law on the Status of the National MP. Sulkowski. I thought it would work this time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I will, indeed, support, vote as quickly as possible for such a draft ruling. It is necessary to give to politicians such as Julia Timoshenko and Kirilenko, who are so cynically lying to the people of Ukraine, that it is so gambling that all the national deputies of these two factions have written down their powers as a national deputy. Then the question is: Why are you afraid to come as the leaders of the factions in this room and first to go out through the rostrum of Parliament that you took an oath to lead all the national MPs? In this regard, resolve and do not lie, and do not tire out the head of the people of Ukraine and of the national deputies who are working today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u28	I'm sorry, you won't get half a second, because instead of asking questions, you were saying your thoughts again. Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u29	Adam Ivanovich, can you tell us how many people's deputies have written statements to withdraw their signatures on the cessation of the MP's activities and can they be named? That's the first question. And second. Why is it that the Turks, the Immortal, have not established their powers, they have been working for more than a month at the President's Office, and the President is not responding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u30	According to the statements, I have not personally seen them, the horses are registered in the secretariat, I know that there are about five more applications in the secretariat, in the Supreme Council's apparatus there are statements that they refuse previous statements, some of the national deputies have not written statements at all. That's why we need to be clear. Because there may be such a situation that he did not write the application because he was not present, but he can confirm that he is ready to step out of the faction and exercise his parliamentary powers. And the painting may be what he wrote, but he refuses because he's been forced to write. That's why it's necessary, as it were, to establish the truth and there's no abuse, so everyone can personally confirm their claim. [[I'm referring again to that MP I quoted.]] With regard to the Immortal and the Turkinov. I know that the committee is already preparing for submission to the head, the head of the Supreme Council will refer to the Court of Justice for the Immortal to deprive him of his parliamentary powers in accordance with 81 articles and there will be, literally, a few more days for the Turkinov to also set a 20-day deadline for such a removal. Although they wrote the relevant statements on the faction, this is a very different situation, it is necessary to act on the other part of the 81 articles. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u31	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Adam Ivanovich, of course we will support this ruling, but I also have a question about the implementation of this order. Because we are already faced with the fact that the President is ignoring the Constitution, and the people's deputies are failing to perform their functions, thus also violating the Constitution. We are making the right decision to determine the procedures to be followed by all these people's deputies. Please tell me, if they do not comply with these procedures, do we have the opportunity to appeal to the court or to resort to any other instruments, legal instruments of influence on these people's deputies who do not meet their obligations to the electorate today, do not work on the drafts and do not actually implement their electoral programmes, and do they, however, say that they intend to go to the new elections? Do we have any legal influence on these deputies?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u32	Legal capacity to influence MPs is limited to those who reconcile positions. Two of them have already been called Immortal and Turkinov, and there is a third colleague of Jidenko, whom we have recently appointed as a member of the Central Electoral Commission. You know, there's a law on which, by the way, the President recently relied on when he fired the Attorney General once again: if there is no procedure for the appointment of deputies within 15 days, then the authority that appointed him should decide to resign. So 15 days from now, and that's less than 15 days from now, 15 days from now, we can go back to the appointment of the Jew as a member of the Central Election Commission. If we do not have a statement before then, to the Supreme Council, and we will not consider it: that it will be a parliamentary mandate, then we will be obliged by law to make a decision, a decision to exempt him from the duties of a member of the Central Election Commission, because he has failed to comply with the requirements of the Constitution and the requirements of the law on non-compliance. With regard to the voluntary withdrawal from factions and their exclusion from assembly decisions, only the national deputies to whom this was carried out can deal with similar matters in court. However, according to the Constitution, by law, the leadership of the Supreme Council is granted to us only in one case: when they reconcile positions and within 20 days they have failed to exercise parliamentary powers. Then the Head of the Supreme Council refers to the court. Here's the legal basis. Yes, the questions have come to an end. Shall we discuss it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u33	Then I am voting on Order 3643 amending paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on certain measures to ensure that the provisions of Article 81, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine are implemented. The Supreme Council ruled: paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council Order of Ukraine of 30 May 2007 on certain measures to ensure the implementation of the provisions of article 81, paragraph 6 of the Constitution of Ukraine, should be supplemented by the words: “in the context of the personal presence of the Ukrainian National Deputy.” The other one. This decree takes effect from the day it was adopted. Please vote. [[10:54:40]] For 261 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues, once again I would like to emphasize to both the national MPs and to those who listen to us that we are so scrupulously referring to this question, because this is the first time in the history of Ukrainian Parliamentarianism and the worlds that we are going through a similar procedure. I. Now, and that's why it has to be, really, legally clean, so that we don't have any reason to talk about what's done one way or another. Since such a decision has been taken, I appeal to my colleagues who have written statements of withdrawal from the faction that they wish to be confirmed, whether we invite them today or tomorrow to a meeting of the Supreme Council, and in their presence, we will announce that the chairman of the meeting will make such an announcement. To that end, I stress once again that everything is legally clean, endured, and no one blames us. Please, Sergey Sinchenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u34	Adam Ivanovich, I'd like a moment to vote. We have now made a decree that a deputy should be in the Supreme Council Hall, in a plenary meeting, and make a personal statement on this matter. But the main thing is, all of these claims are Filka's letter until there's law. That's the main thing. We have now adopted a piece of the mechanism for the implementation of this law, which we do not have. We must now work on a law that regulates these very important issues. So I propose that, apart from the fact that we have taken a decision, the Rules of Procedure committee should be entrusted with some way of working out this mechanism in the form of a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u35	Thank you, Sergey Grigorovich. You're absolutely right. When I made a report on the draft decree, I pointed out that article 81 said: To deprive a national MP of the assembly of a party or the assembly of political blocs could only be on the basis of a law that is not available today. But that's part two. The first ingredient. There's no law, there's a Rules and there's our decree that we've just adopted and completed the decree of May 31st, that the National MP has the right to enter or exit the faction. This is his right, and the law is not required here, because it is regulated by the Rules and the Status Act. So he can say that about getting out of the faction. The following actions that you are talking about must be done on the basis of a Constitution and a special law that is not available. Dear colleagues, I've asked for this Bulba and we're done. Because we can talk about it for a long time. Microphone, please, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u36	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I just wanted to offer. So to get this, this is our decision, to bring the decisions to the people's deputies who allegedly wrote the statements. Why? Because in the end, I think it would just speed up their decision. I was surprised yesterday to see how in the room where people's deputies, assistants, signify their assistant consultants. Lila Grigorovitch came and took a certificate for her assistants. Yes, I ask, is she a national MP? Is she in charge or not? It seems to me that many of them are already resting somewhere, burning from the work of the non-righteous, but some of them may still be in Ukraine somewhere and might grant our request and come to the meeting of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u37	Thank you. I've already told the announcement about this, and I'm once again addressing colleagues of the National Deputies of the But factions and Our Ukraine to please us, whether to advise us, whether to be happy with our presence in the session room, when we're announcing statements to confirm, whether they've written this statement or not. Let us look at information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the impact of drought in Ukraine. Please, Mr. Melnik Yuri Fedorovich, Minister of Agrarian Politics and the Deputy Prime Minister of the APC, Slava Viktor Andriyovich. Yuri Fedorovich, how long do you have?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u38	In 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u39	Fifteen minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank you people's deputies for your decision to consider assessing the effects of the drought today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear National Deputies! Even our opponents note that thanks to the Titanic work of peasants during the spring-field work package in the current year, agriculture had good reason to count on positive results in virtually all segments of the agrarian sector of the economy. By means of targeted local work and substantial government support, farmers were able to lay a good foundation for the production of basic agricultural products in 2007. In order to create favourable conditions from the beginning of the year only to support the development of the agricultural sector by the government to implement the State Budget Act, more than 1.6 billion dollars are allocated to producers. I will also point out that the government has generally approved a favourable funding schedule for village support programmes in the first half of the year, that is, at a time when the future crop is being formed. In addition, over 5 billion dollars of credit have also been involved in agro-industrial production during this period, of which two billion have already been formed as a benefit. The government, we believe, has also taken effective measures to fill the market with oil products, mineral fertilizers, plant protection products, seeds and other resources, which have allowed for a stable situation in the resource market and contributed to the timely and quality of spring-field work. As a result, thanks to the hard work of peasants, yokes, grains, grain crops were sown in an area of 8.2 million hectares, the winter crops of 6.9 million hectares were fed on time by mineral fertilizers and protected from diseases. In a complex of labor, agricultural producers purchased and used mineral fertilizers for more than 120,000 tons of active substance last year. For the most part, crops of other agricultural crops were carried out in optimal terms. So all of this really confirms that there were, in general, good preconditions for crop formation in 2007. Sadly, however, in the current year, agriculture in large areas has demonstrated a strong dependence on nature. In a large part of the territory, states have established extremely unfavourable agrometeorological conditions. Such a situation concerns society today, worries politicians, and more and more comments on this subject appear in the media. So in April/June of this year, in a number of regions there was no precipitation for 46 days, a high temperature with long low relative humidity of air and dry phenomena, resulting in drought, as in some central, and especially in southern regions, which made it difficult to produce early grains and vegetation of late crops. Stocks of the productive moisture of the metric layer of soil in most areas of the steppe and a series of woodchopper zones are two or three times lower than the average long-term values, the top layers of the soil are practically dry. I will note that, according to observations, such an anomalous dry weather in southern Ukraine has not been observed in the last 100 years. According to the region’s operational information, soil drought has covered more than a third of the agricultural area, and we estimate it to be about ten million acres [10 million ha]. The most affected were the droughts of the farms of Herson, Mikolai, Odessa, Kirovograd, Zaporzik, Dnipropetrovsk, Donetsk, Lugansk, and parts of the Cherka region and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. In these regions, according to surveys, the winter crops have already been killed at an area of 406,000 hectares, a ditch of 390,000 hectares, of which some 100,000 hectares have already been transplanted. In general, there are 30 percent of the country’s 10 million hectares in good health, 40 percent in good health, and 1.7 million hectares or 24 percent in weak and rare crops. With regard to seedlings, only 28 percent of bright grain and grain crops are in good condition, 43 percent are in satisfactory condition, 24 percent weak, and rare. The issues of agricultural production and the assessment of the effects of drought were discussed at the last two government meetings, and appropriate instructions were given for the preparation of concrete measures to minimize the effects of drought. In order to carry out the mandate of the Government, the Minagropolitics jointly with scientists and authorities at the sites over the past three weeks have carried out a thorough inventory of agricultural crops and, taking into account their state, developed and implemented appropriate agrotechnical measures to maximize the conservation of the areas of the winter and spring wedge. The inventory of seed resources of the past years is completed for use under the 2008 crop. In order to provide practical assistance in drought - covered areas, a group of experts and scientists are now continuing to work. The government is taking the necessary steps to minimize the adverse effects of drought and to ensure the necessary quantities of agricultural production in the current year and to establish the necessary crop base in 2008. Dear National Deputies! Taking into account the possible adverse effects of drought, Decree No 794 was adopted by the Government on 4 June this year on urgent measures to reduce the adverse effects of drought and ensure the formation of crop resources in 2007. The government's decision addresses three of the most important clusters of issues. The first is measures to minimize the effects and to help farmers who have suffered from drought. Yes, the decision requires the relevant public authorities to determine the actual damage to the farms in the affected regions within two weeks and to submit generalized materials to the Cabinet of Ministers to decide on partial compensation for their drought losses. To this end, according to the Government's submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, changes have been made to the State Budget to fill the reserve fund by 120 million dollars. The budget changes have also allocated an additional 50 million dollars to replenish the state seed insurance fund with the aim of providing benefits to the seeds of farmers who have suffered particularly from drought. On behalf of all the villagers, I would like to thank the people's deputies for making such decisions, for responding to the village's problems in a timely manner. There is also a solution to the issue of the allocation of about 30 million dollars to partially cover the damage to the holdings of five areas affected in March by dust storms. It is also intended to introduce the cost of loans received by affected households in exchange for the national bank’s double account rate. So let me remind you that this is going to be 16 percent, and the loans were going to be 17-18. It is entrusted with optimizing the monthly allocation schedule for the main budget support programmes with the aim of increasing the expenditure for these programmes in June-July of this year at 450 million dollars. In addition, the Ministry has prepared changes in the way budget funds are used, which provide for the operational redistribution of funds between regions and enterprises within regions, and for the mitigation of individual requirements for recipients of budget funds. The State Tax Administration has the right to grant to the affected enterprises the distribution of payments to the State budget and similar actions are provided for local authorities from payments to local budgets. The question of increasing the amount of compensation from the cost of electricity used for irrigation from 50 percent to 80 percent is settled. Work is being done with the National Bank and the Association of Ukrainian Banks on the extension of loans to affected households after harvesting in 2008. Also yesterday, at a government meeting, a decision was taken by Zina regarding the expansion of credit for manufacturing and processing enterprises in part of their purchases of raw materials, exclusively from farmers and their technological resupply. As well as the cost of long-term loans received in 2005-2006. The second cluster of issues is measures for the formation of national and regional food reserves and other food products. According to the government, the Supreme Council has also made changes to the state budget in the 100 million dollar increase in expenditure to form a food reserve with an agrarian fund. It is also possible to redistribute two hundred million dollars between the individual budget programs of the Ministry, which are also aimed at the formation of food grain resources by the agrarian fund. This funding will allow the first days of harvesting grains to form legislatively defined national food reserves in an agrarian fund of 710,000 tons. In addition, the government obliged the state’s material reserve to significantly increase its food supplies by identifying a source of funding. The regulation also provides for the simplification of procedures for purchases to the agrarian fund and the Derzkoreservoir for the purpose of speeding up the purchase of food grains. The government also requires regions to form regional food grain resources in a three - month need of 1.8 million tons. For the purpose of guaranteeing saturation of the internal market, a government is developing measures to temporarily limit the export of all types of grains to the completion of the formation of state and regional stocks in certain areas. This will take into account the updated grain projections for the next marketing year. We believe that at this stage, taking into account the situation in areas that have not been affected by drought, these measures will enable the government to guarantee food security for the population and to maintain a stable price situation in this market. If necessary, proposals will be made for further action by the government and the Supreme Council. Next, it's a cluster of crops and crops under the 2008 crop. Minegropolitics, along with the regional authorities of the agro-industry industry, have taken control of all seed seeds of grains with the aim of ensuring that the affected regions are provided with sown materials, winters, and springs of grain crops. The region reviews the structure of the soybeans for 2008, taking into account the increase in the production of cereals, trillers, and valuable varieties of winter wheat, beans, and oil crops, as well as grains of corn. I also consider it appropriate to focus briefly on irrigation issues. It should be noted that most of the state’s meliority funds, highways and inter-economic channels, pipelines, pumping stations, and hydrotechnic buildings have been preserved. They are in good condition and are able to supply water for water in an area of over 2.2 million hectares. However, according to the inventory of domestic melioritative systems, their technical capabilities allow only 43-45 percent of the available areas to be watered. In fact, in the last five years, only 620,000 hectares have been flooded on average. This year, 350,000 crops have been planted thanks to the measures that have been taken. Most of them. Moreover, the tides increased threefold compared to the previous year. Filling rice cheques with water in all rice farms has been completed. More than 11 million dollars have already been allocated to the region to compensate for the cost of electricity. A total of 750,000 acres [750,000 ha] is expected to cover in 2007. But that is certainly not enough. Therefore, given the importance of inefficient crop irrigation in the South of Ukraine, we consider it to be an appropriate legislative measure to determine the development of irrigation as a national priority. Next. Drought can certainly have a negative effect on animal life. Already there is a shortage of green feed in affected areas. Feeding, especially the concentrated large animal complexes and bird factories, livestock and birds are expected to be problematic. Thus, the government is directing such enterprises and regional authorities to maximize the production of feed grain during the harvest season, targeting the specified benefits of credit and its own circulation costs. In addition, the State’s material reserve will be made, if necessary, to purchase directly from meat producers in the areas defined by the government’s decree. There will also be continued measures taken by the government today to protect the domestic market for animal production in part of the regulation of meat imports under tax conditions, as well as through free economic zones with the aim of supporting domestic purchasing prices. And to the end. In our view, according to today’s capabilities, the measures proposed by the government are generally timely and timely. They will certainly contribute to the stability of grain markets and other major food products in the following marketing year. I emphasize that the government will continue to monitor the food market situation and will take additional measures if necessary. I will also point out that today, the Ministry, together with scientists, regions and public professional organizations, is working on long-term agro-industry development programmes, and the preparation of a project for a state-wide comprehensive Ukrainian village development programme by 2015. Proposals are being prepared to address tax issues and improve the budget programs to support agricultural development. And we sincerely count on this to support the national deputies of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u41	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Ten minutes. Please, Silchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u42	Dear Yuri Fedorovich, I know you as a supporter, you personally and especially Victor Andriovich Slautu, Vice Prime Minister of Agriculture, a simplified farm grant system. However, Ministry officials, regardless of your position, have developed such a complex scheme of over 15 documents necessary for receiving subsidies, and have then set up such conditions, particularly after paying off the debt on wages, after using the elite variety seed, other such as the numbering of animals and so on, which make it impossible for many households to receive this grant. Can't we actually simplify this scheme after all? That's one question. And one more thing. They came to me, complained about the government's decision on the land of Lviv, which they had received.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u43	I understand Vassil Andryovich. Thank you for asking. First of all, I've already talked about this in a statement that will be simplified and now developed projects to make changes to the way the State Budget funds are used to simplify the access of farmers to those funds that are allocated to support programs. That's what we take 10 days for ourselves. And on the second question, I also said in my statement that yesterday the government had adopted a decision that addressed the issue of servicing the loans involved in 2005-2006. So this question is already settled.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u44	Please, Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u45	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I thank the minister for this important information that has been brought to us. And the question is, please tell Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u46	Stepan Bulba, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u47	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I have a question, after all. You're talking about the grant, the simplification of the grant system, but I don't think that's the answer. In the end, we're talking about a small grant that needs to be paid off as a fact of sowing, and we've already lost the crops and we're saying that they haven't received the grant yet. Keep going. The second question. Regarding the regulation of the export of grains from Ukraine. The world's grain prices have risen by 12 to 15 percent. So we're either going to lose the grain now, or we're not going to be able to buy it later, because we're not going to be able to do it at these prices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u48	Thank you, Stepanovich. Answering the first question. A grant per hectare of crops has already been paid. It is paid at the right time in the amount of 490 million dollars. TODAY, after the adoption of the relevant reports, as determined by the use of State budget funds, we will be paying grants during the June month for the sowing of bright crops. According to the regulations that were adopted, they also allow them to do so for farms that have suffered without restrictions. And with regard to world grain prices, and how government agents are going to buy grain. For the implementation of the Act on State support for agriculture, defined by the government for the 2007-2008 government price regulation, the marketing year is rye; it is wheat and sugar. These state price regulation objects are subject to minimum prices, including the world’s conjunctivities. And we're going to be buying grain on the stock markets with such a calculation that our prices are on the level of the prices that are operating today in the world markets so that today's purchase of state reserves doesn't lead to extra.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u49	Please, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u50	Thank you. Dear Yuri Mikhailovich, Fedorovich, I apologize. Of course, you were right to say thank you for being the Supreme Council. But this is a “thank you” to the Supreme Council, not to the President. I understand that you didn't talk, you said what you thought. But that's not my question. You realize that the Cabinet of Ministers' decrees are designed to redistribute 300 million dollars. And at the expense of the redistribution, the removal from the premiums, the removal from the livestock industry, the removal from the plantation, and the transfer to the purchase of the bread. Is that the answer? That's the first one. And the second question. To buy 10 million tons of bread for 46 million people, it takes at least six billion dollars. Does 300 million solve this issue? So I think we need to back up today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u51	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u52	We need to support the Ministry today. He was left alone with trouble. And to support not only the Minister, the Zampreda of Kabmin, to support the Cabinet of Ministers, and to do everything to actually review the budget and find five billion, to give the minister the power to provide 46 million people with food resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u53	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Mikolayovich. Indeed, it may not have been a very effective method of redistributing funds within the budget programs of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy, but it chose priorities. And today there are already 100 million dollars in the agrarian fund, 100 million dollars in the budget for the redistribution. And we're going to do the task defined by law, part of the purchase of 710,000 tons of food grain by the Agrarian Fund. Of course, in order to increase the volume of purchases, such as food grains to government resources, there is a need for additional costs. But what I would also like to say is that, thanks to the support of the people's deputies, the State Budget Act 2007 has been set up for agriculture support programmes of 3 billion 750 million dollars -- an amount that today is actually working in agricultural production and also has an impact on the support of the agricultural producer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u54	Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u55	Thank you, Yuri Anatolevich, Fedorovich, for the report. You have shown convincingly that the words and the “crocodile tears” are pouring on Bank and the cases are being done on Grusevski. But there is another danger, and I wanted to know whether you were counting it or not. Here are all these conservation activities, especially in the southern part of our Zaporozhye region, in the Herson region, they may encounter the sabotage of the "orange power" on the ground. Much was said about this in the spring, in the fall, that money was not made in time, and they were detained on the ground. Are the activities designed to ensure that the money reaches the farmer, whom we are obliged to keep this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u56	A very important question and, indeed, we had delays in the first quarter of this year with the state budget in place, but we have already made changes to the basics that have made it easier to access these resources. And most of all, we're going to assume that now that we've changed the terms of the state budget, with the grant of rights, the monthly redistribution between the farms and the industries, we're going to make it an operational process not only to allocate funds, but to get them to farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u57	The polymarenko Falco is passing on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u58	Dear Yuri Fedorovich, I have just received the answer to the question I wanted. But I specifically wanted to ask you: When will the peasants of Mikolaivian land who suffered from the drought receive this money? Specifically. Because it's such a long way to go. That's one question. Other, please. How is the sugar beet now sown? Will we have sugar this year? And last of all, please. What is the status of crops in areas that have not been affected by drought? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u59	Thank you for asking. Government decree No. 794 of June 4 clearly defines the deadline for the submission of documents to assist affected enterprises, which is two weeks. So at the meeting we held with the regions, a clear task was given to the heads of the regional authorities at the agro-industrial complex: to provide the necessary materials in two weeks to make up for the damage. Two weeks from the fourth is a period of time taken to document the damage. What is the condition of crops in areas that have not been affected? Even in this rostrum, I will knock on the rostrum because it is wooden, with everything going well in those areas that have not suffered. And what I'm saying is that even the rains that have passed in the last week have changed the situation in a number of regions in the Cherka region. And even the Kyiv area that we had in the critical zone, we also view today as stable. As a result, these areas, which had not been affected by drought, were in the rain at the right time. At such a temperature, a good crop is formed. So do we.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u60	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u61	Agricultural production according to established plans Sugar beet in these regions is also in good condition. We're monitoring his crops. Of course, in the southern and the steppes, first of all, the areas where the sugar beet was sown, where it died. But 650,000 hectares, which are sown, will ensure that sugar is produced in the necessary quantities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u62	Thank you, Yuri Fedorovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss information? None. Then let's do it this way. Here in your questions you're absolutely right, especially Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, you've drawn attention to that, and the minister told us, well, there's the Supreme Council, which is really fast with the Cabinet of Ministers responding to these serious things. The truth and the President seem to react, but in three hours, if you go around three areas, I doubt that you can get a serious look at the situation in each of these areas. But it is good that any attention is given. I think we'll do the right thing, if we ask for a profile committee, I see Glady Mikhail Vasilovich, why don't you gather a committee today, work on a draft ruling, and we can look at it tomorrow. In this draft of decrees, I recommend that we support those actions, those decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers that have already been made. And with the Cabinet of Ministers and with the agrarian block and with Slavka, and with Melnik, please discuss what could be taken into account in this decree, so that the Supreme Council will make certain commitments to support the Cabinet of Ministers in providing for those or other acts, including changes to the State Budget, including legislative acts that we have and some of them today, including consideration. In order to bear the shared responsibility of the Supreme Council, its majority and the Cabinet of Ministers have taken all necessary steps to minimize the effects of drought that our minister has said our state has not seen in the last 100 years. Please starve a minute and we'll be done. From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Yesterday at a meeting of the Committee on Agricultural Policy on Land Relations, we discussed these issues in detail, this problem. We agree that the government has indeed responded promptly and adequately to this situation that is now in our country. And I made the right decisions. We have a draft decision ready, and it's very good that you're giving the commission today we're going to review it and put it back on the agenda for the day meeting of the Supreme Council. Once again, I want to thank the government for its operational intervention, and the Supreme Council will support their targets, their wishes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u64	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Then, if there's a first question tomorrow, we're going to ask this motion for a ruling, please make an official submission to the committee, register. He's not a co-rapporteur, Alexander Mikolayovich, you'll talk to him like that, he'll tell you. Prepare all legal forms, we'll be the first to consider this decision tomorrow. During the decision-making process, Alexander Mikolaiovich, if there are any moments, then tomorrow we will raise these problems by making a decision. We're going to end this. I thank both Victor Andryovich and Yuri Fedorovich and all those who work in the agrarian government. And we want them to really, really do, take all the necessary measures with us so that Ukraine, as one of the largest grain states, is with bread and we have not experienced any adventure for this most important food of ours. Thank you for the information. Dear colleagues, we need to consider the amendments to the Supreme Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Fifth Committees of the Supreme Ukraine and the Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Ukraine on Privatization. It's about adding up to a committee of our colleagues. Please, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, MPs, and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u65	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the committee at its meeting on June 6th, reviewed the statement made by National Deputy Kazinuk Alexandr Rostislavovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP, to elect him as a member of the Committee on European Integration. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on committees is up to 20, and the Committee on European Integration operates six Ukrainian national deputies from this faction. That is, the quota is not fully used, the committee has decided to support the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kasianuk and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u66	Thank you. Any questions? Then I put to the vote the order number 3648. Choose Kazinuk Aleksandra Rostislavovich, Ukrainian national deputy, from the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Party of the Regions as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration. Please vote. [[11:31:09]] For 258. A decision has been made. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u67	At its meeting on June 6, the Committee considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Gorbenko Natalija Arsentiovni, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for election as a member of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government and Local Self-Government. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ deputies in committees of up to 20 persons is 7 and that the Committee on State Policy and Local Self-Government operates from this faction of 9 national deputies, but one has left, the national deputy from this faction, and regardless of that, the quota is exceeded. The committee should only decide not to support the statement made by the national deputy Gorbenko. But the National MP insists, only the Hall can decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u68	Yes, I understand the situation. No questions to Alexander Sergiyovich? None. I would like to remind you that my colleague Gorbenko is not a member of any of the committees, because we only confirmed her delegation's credentials on March 20th of this year. An important committee, one of the leaders, and so if people want to work there, it makes us happy and it may be necessary to support that desire. Moreover, gender policy will be right there and Tihonov asks as head of the committee. So I'm voting for Supreme Council resolution 3649 to choose Gorbenko Natalija Arsentiyevna, a national deputy from the Party of Regions, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. Please vote. [[11:33:08]] For 256 It's been decided. We welcome our colleagues for having their jobs and their seats. Let us turn to the “Other Readings” section. I have a request, in connection with the situation of our colleague Bertash, that he be given the opportunity to explain the issues that he has to report, even though they are not the first ones. And by taking the opportunity, let us express our compassion for his sister’s death. Do you mind if we take a look? Then we're looking at Bill 2503 of the Building Regulations Act. [[second reading]] Please, Vasil Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Your opinion is suggested for consideration in the second reading of the draft Law on Standards in Construction. The bill was discussed on February 9, this year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and by a majority of votes adopted in the first reading on the basis. In preparing the bill, 35 comments and suggestions were made to the committee for the second reading of the draft law, either in full or in part. The drafting process of the Act proposes a series of changes that are mainly aimed at defining the subject matter of the bill and its implementation mechanisms. Yes, it is proposed to change the name of the bill on building standards, to formulate the basic principles of public policy in the field of regulation, organizational principles of building standards at state, sector and territorial levels. Also, with regard to the creation of a central fund of building standards and foundations for branch and territorial building standards, the building regulations are defined. An article 3 of Ukraine’s legislation on building regulations has been added. The adoption of the bill will allow for the creation of a normative basis for building on a qualitatively new level. And also to create a basis to make it impossible to duplicate the requirements of acts that regulate activity in the area of construction. The Committee on Budget Affairs believes that the bill will have no impact on the income and expenditure of the budget. The main legal administration accepted the bill without any notice. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the Ukrainian Bill on Standardization in Construction in Second Reading and generally as a Law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u70	Thank you. Dear colleagues, second reading, I am addressing, although Vasil Mikhailovich has already said that virtually all amendments are taken into account, or are considered editorially. But. Perhaps one of your colleagues insists that his amendment is not as edited as he would have liked, or that one of you has reservations about the changes that your colleagues have taken into account, but you insist that this rule should be set in another way. There aren't any? Then, since the name of the law has been changed, I propose that we vote that we change the name of the law, it has previously been proposed as the Law of Ukraine “On regulations in construction”, the committee proposes to call the Law “On building standards”. Please vote on the name of the law. [[11:37:30.]] For 253 The title of the Construction Standards Act has been adopted. If there is no objection, I am voting on the adoption of the whole Building Standards Act. Please vote. [[11:38:00]] For 256 Copy that. A draft Law on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of water and water supplies held in municipal property, registration number 2750, is under consideration. Please. No, well, we're 2751. Next, please, 2750.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u71	Dear Adami Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u72	And 2751, they're the same. Please, you can do the report in both cases and vote separately. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u73	Your attention is drawn to the bill on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of water supplies and water supplies held in municipal property. Registration number 2750 and the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of heating facilities in municipal property. Registration number 2751. Prepared by the committee for consideration in second reading. During the process, there was a bill on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of water supplies and water supplies held in municipal property, 84 comments and proposals by Ukrainian national deputies, 38 of which were rejected and 46 amendments taken into account in full, in part, or editorially. That the 2751 bill received 67 proposals, 28 amendments were rejected, and 39 were counted. I would like to point out that much of the amendments aimed at harmonizing the law with the concession law, as proposed by the General Legal Authority, have been rejected, since the reference to the specified law is in the first article. Ukraine’s concession law is a framework. Therefore, the proposed laws are essential for businesses in the field. Heat and water management systems are strategic targets that carry out their functions, including in emergency situations, ensuring the health of the nation, the development of the national economy, and social relations. In view of what these bills define the characteristics of transferring such objects into concessions with a view to avoiding technological catastrophes, excluding the possibility of intrusion into the management of random entrepreneurial structures. On the basis of the concession contract, the concessionaire’s responsibility is to make the investments necessary to ensure the reliable and efficient functioning of the infrastructure. Conducting reconstruction and modernization at his expense and risk in order to create conditions for constantly increasing quality and reducing service costs. I'm going to stop at more detail on some of the main points. The Concessionaire is given the right to use municipal property for heat, water, and water supplies controlled by the public and the state. Special conditions for the transfer to the concession are the provision of heating, water, and water supplies. Marked.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u74	Give me three more minutes after the second bill. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u75	These objects may be awarded to concessions by local self-governance authorities of all the territorial communities that use the services provided under prior public hearings and by agreement with the central executive authority in the area of Ukrainian Housing and Utilities, the authorities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine. The change in the target destination of all objects that are part of the entire property complexes of enterprises is prohibited. The competition commission is attended by professionals who directly work for a concessional enterprise. Experts in the field of heat, water and water supply, which make up at least 50 percent of the total composition of the competitive commission. The selection of concessionaires takes place exclusively on a competitive basis. The specific requirements for applicants are: a high professional level and positive market experience of at least five years of service and a statutory fund that exceeds the expert cost of objects transferred to the concession. The availability of a business plan has been developed in accordance with the Ukrainian legislation on a state-wide programme for the reform and development of housing and utilities for 2004-2010 and a regional programme for the reform and development of water supply. After the concession contract has been concluded, the concessionaire shall decide to review the tariffs for services that are calculated and approved in accordance with the regulatory acts. The concessionaire can write down the principal funds received in concessions, whose balance sheet cost exceeds 50,000 dollars, only with the consent of the owner to provide appropriate justifications. Once the concession contract is concluded or if the concessionaire is terminated, the concessionaire is obliged to transfer the concessionaire in a technical condition that meets the requirements of the standards and regulations for the construction and repair of energy conservation, maintenance and operation of these objects during the transfer. Also provide documents that support the absence of debt obligations regarding the object of the concession. When installed, the power of production shall not be lower than at the moment of transfer to the concession. The proposed laws are not distributed on the utility property of the thermal facilities that were supplied in concession until this law becomes effective. There are currently no water supplies and water supplies in the concession. Experts estimate that up to 40 percent of energy resources are consumed, with a significant share of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u76	Finish up, please. This is the second reading, I repeat, we just have to talk about change. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u77	Water consumption and heat levels are 2-3 times higher than those in European countries. Every year 20 percent of the heat produced is lost. All the above circumstances call for the adoption of bills that, on the one hand, reinforce the characteristics of the transfer of heat, water supply, and water supplies to the concessionaire, making the requirements of the concessionaire firm enough for the management of property as a service. On the other hand, they protect the interests of the territorial community, which is the owner of the concessional property. Please support the decision of the profiling committee and adopt the bills on second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u78	Thank you. Thus, a report is made on two bills. We'll look at them separately. 2750 — on the characteristics of the distribution of water supplies and water supplies to concessions in municipal property. Which of the national MPs has proposals for their amendments that are not taken into account? None. Voropeyeva has a microphone, please. Call it an amendment, which number.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u79	The fifth amendment to the Act is with regard to article 1, part three. It's shown here in this table. I insist on my amendment for the following reasons. I think the term given in the law is not entirely correct, not very clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u80	Please, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u81	The thought of a committee is to reject this amendment, because we're counting on it to fit it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u82	I see. I put to the vote the fifth amendment of colleague Voropeyeva: Part Three of Article 1 to exclude. Please vote. [[11:47:10]] For 222 Not supported. Is there anyone else who insists on repairs? Is there no more? There is, Sparrow, please, he still has some adjustments, if he insists. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u83	Amendment 6 to this bill. As referred to in amendment 6. The Act provides for the transfer to concession only of water and water supplies. At the same time, the Concession Act itself also provides for the transfer of concessions to facilities designed to clean sewage. I therefore propose that this law be supplemented by the possibility of transferring to the concession, which is article 2, paragraph 2.1, “as well as objects designed to clean sewage”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u84	What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u85	The committee has considered this amendment, but we have enough on the committee. The experts who understand the matter did not support the amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u86	I have a question: Is that how sewage treatment objects are passed on to concessions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u87	They're transmitting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u88	So why not add them here? Well, please, I'm putting to the vote the sixth amendment of colleague Voropeyeva. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:48:42]] For 212 Not supported. Any other changes? I screwed up, please. Microphone. To talk, we need to find out what kind of amendment we have to make, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u89	I'm trying to list the table to get to that amendment. Excuse me. Last amendment, if you don't mind. With regard to Amendment 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u90	Please, 47 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u91	The point is that, again, this is the case with respect to article 9, part two. This amendment is designed to bring this law into line with article 17 of the concession law. Because if we adopt the text as proposed by the Committee, there would be contradictions between the two laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u92	What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u93	Thank you for the offer. We also considered this amendment, number 47, but none of the members of the committee supported it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u94	And it's in vain because it says that "concessionaire has the right to terminate contracts". [[True, it's not exactly Ukrainian: it's the one who gives in to the concession.]] Well, I can see why the committee didn't support it. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. Please vote. [[11:50:44]] For 202 It's not supported. Yes, it's all right. There's a lot, though. I think, as a lawyer, he was in many cases right that it would have to be written more precisely, but the committee's experts looked at it from a different perspective. If there are no more comments, I am voting on the adoption of the 2750 law on the specialities of the transfer to the concession of water and water supplies held in municipal property. In general. Vasil Mikhailovich, you will remain in the rostrum. We have another law. Stay. [[11:51:33]] For 203 Not accepted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u95	Let's do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u96	By factions, please, the Party of the Regions - 177, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko - 11, Our Ukraine - 0, the Socialists - 5, the Communists - 0, the non-fractional - 10. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[11:52:12]] For-198 The bill was rejected. But the motives are clear. Yeah, we're looking at bill 2751. Who were the unaccounted for? You don't? This is already a matter of heat supplies, a similar bill, a water supply, and a heat supply. No, so I put to the vote a bill under number 2751 of the Ukrainian Law on the adoption in general, on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of heating facilities held in municipal property. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:53:11]] For a hundred and Overruled. Come on, dear fellows, I'm going to the committee again. Let them look to the future with regard to lawyers, lawyers ’ opinions. Because the profile committee was looking at more, perhaps purely technical, technological approaches to this problem. I looked at the corrections of colleague Voropeyev, in many cases they are, indeed, right and substantial. Because they come out of a legal relationship. More lawyers would have to be involved here to see that this law is effective, not just law for the sake of the law. Since we are about to conclude our third session, those who wish to return to this consideration will be able to return to the fourth session, please, and we can return to them again in the fall. A draft Law on Social Dialogue in Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 2748. Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please. And then there's 2639, then there's going to be. Because we have 2748 first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, I recall that this bill on social dialogue has been drafted by three parties to the social partnership, and they have proposed to the President as a subject of the legislative initiative to introduce to the Supreme Council. Following the adoption by the Supreme Council on 8 February 2007, the law was established on first reading on a tripartite basis by a working group which held six meetings. A wide round table was held to discuss all issues related to the bill. During the drafting of the bill, the recommendations of the round table were the basis. First, the three levels of social dialogue, national, territorial and local, have been differentiated with the definition of the subject of each level, articles 4, 6, 11 of the bill; secondly, the criteria for representativeness of the organization of trade unions and employers for social dialogue and participation in the work of social dialogue bodies, article 3, articles 4, 6, 7; thirdly, the establishment of a national triangular socio-economic council, its legal status, its principal functions, structure and working bodies are articles 7, 8, 9. In accordance with the ILO Convention and world practice, article seven defines the national, tripartite socio-economic council as a stand-alone permanent body, which is established on a tripartite basis of 45 members. Each party to the national council shall elect a co-chair and its alternates. The National Council shall be chaired by the President, who shall be elected from the co-chairs of the parties for a term of one year. The term of office of members of the National Council shall be three years. The draft is supplemented by new articles, article 9, organization of the National Council, which provides that the National Council shall ensure that its functions are carried out through meetings, consultations, committees, temporary, working groups and expert groups. The powers of its meetings and decision-making are also defined. The legal status of the secretariat of the National Council, functions and organization of its work is defined in article 10. Article 12 provides that the Territorial Council shall carry out deliberative, advisory and conciliation functions through the preparation of proposals and recommendations. Article 13 - Control and responsibility. And 14 - the final provisions are also presented in a new version. In total, 73 proposals were made by the People's Deputies. Of these, 32 were taken into account, 40 were taken into account, and one proposal was not taken into account. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt the bill on second reading and in general. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u98	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. As reported by a committee representative, there is more than one proposal. Her author doesn't insist? No, it's not. Which of the colleagues insists on confirming an amendment or to vote on an article, a bill? You don't? None. I inform you that this is a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine. I'm betting on a vote on the adoption of the law as a whole, registration number 2748, on a social dialogue. Please support the President. [[11:58:13]] For 249 The law is passed. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u99	The morning session continues. The request is to announce that the deputies enter the hall. You guys sit over here. We have a statement of two factions for a break or a performance. I think it's better if it's a performance, right? Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Based on the estimates made at the morning meeting and generalizing the proposals for a solution to the situation of increased political tension, the National Unity Coalition claims. The process of peaceful resolution of the political crisis in Ukraine is blocked unilaterally by President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine. Yes, the President's decree of June 5th “On the appointment of consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine” violates paragraphs 1 and 7 of the joint statement of the political leaders of May 27. Despite the agreement reached on how to resolve the political crisis, the President's environment, which is interested in exacerbating the conflict, prompted him to sign another non-constitutional decree. The decree is based on statements made by several pro-President political parties. However, the decisions of any party's assembly alone cannot be the basis for the President's decrees, even if it is a party of the President himself. There is an appropriate legal procedure that is not followed in this case. In addition, the deputy faction of "Our Ukraine" cannot give up its powers under the law because it is formed by a bloc of different political parties, one of which has already protested against illegal assembly decisions, because it is only possible that the formation of parliamentary powers by representatives of "Our Ukraine" is possible if the gatherings of all parties, members of the bloc, adopt a negotiated decision. A group of opposition factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine officially testified that the National Deputies' statements of formalization had been falsified. At the same time, the Office of the President continues openly to exert illegal pressure on the Constitutional Court. In no European democratic country can the President indicate to the Constitutional Court what decisions this independent court must adopt. No democratic parliamentary elections can be held if the President has acquired the right to unlawfully appoint the heads of district courts, to resign and appoint the judges of the Constitutional Court, to release and appoint, without any legal basis, general prosecutors. It's not democracy, it's usurpation of power. All the President's decrees that he intervenes in the work of the judicial and law enforcement authorities must be immediately repealed. The facts of the May 27 violation of a joint statement indicate that the Presidential side is refusing political compromise and favouring a forceful scenario. For our part, we stress that the political forces of the National Unity Coalition are fully implementing the agreements contained in the declaration of three and are still ready to act in the manner necessary to resolve today’s political conflict solely within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. At the same time, we insist that Ukraine urgently needs the assistance of international mediators, since the President has blocked the work of the Constitutional Court and is thus in great danger of solving today’s political crisis. National Unity Coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u101	Thank you. We take this statement into account, since the right to a recess is implemented in this way, we are considering further the issue of the agenda and we are in line, in accordance with the calendar plan and the work plan for today, the question of the election and release of judges. In this regard, the Head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u102	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on 6 June 2007 considered the submission by the Supreme Court of Ukraine of the Head of the Supreme Court and the heads of the higher specialized courts on the appointment of judges on an open-ended basis, as indicated in the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision 3646 of 6 June this year. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware of the procedure in which judges vote. Judges are in a guest bed. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region - Zajov Valeri Anatoliyovich, Tzu-, Tzuu Taisiyyyu Vasilovna; the Court of Appeal of the Cherkas region - Demchenka Vasil Andriyovich, Irina Anatoliyevna; the Court of Appeal of the Crnivite region - Strubitka Oksana Marianovna; The Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region - Lazorenk Mikola Ivanovich, Mamonov, MamaDonov Olen Eugenyevna; The Court of Appeal of the Hersonian Region - Kuturlano Oksana Volodymyrna; Military Court of Appeal of the Military Sea Force-Salikhova Vitali Valeriyovich; Dnipropetrov's Court of Appeal - Studko Valentine Andriyevna; the local Kyiv District Court of Donetsk - Breženeva Alexander Albertovich; Local District Court of Odessa - Dobrova Pavel Volodymyrovich; Military City Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u103	Local.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u104	The local court of the Sevastopol garrison - Szczerbakova Vladislav Valeriyovich and Haponov Dmitry Yuriovich; the local Wallin District Administrative Court - Kostujovich Sergey Fedorovich; the local Chernigiv District Administrative Court, Sergey Leonidovich; local court of the Dnipropetrov region - Almazov Irina Vasilovna, Welcome Irina Yuriovna, Cherdek Anton Evgenović and the local court of the Lviv district - Zapocznjak Alexander Dmitrovna. The Committee requests support for these nominations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u105	Sergey Anatoliyovich, Sergey Vasilovich, there you may have made a mistake, not “Sevastopol garrison”, but “Simferopolski garrison - Haponov Dmitry Yuriovich”, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u106	Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u107	Then I made this clarification, it's taken into account, so it's written in the regulation. It's simply that the stenogram matches the text of the judgement. The procedure we use has always failed to draw attention to judges. If so, can I put to the vote the Bill of Judges or not? Sure. Then I put to the vote the Order on the Election of Judges in the Editorial, which has just been given to you and you have it in your hands. I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please. [[12:41:29]] For 258. Decision taken. [[Applause]] We welcome the judges, we wish that they could do less work, but that they should do their work in justice and in full compliance with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine. Thank you. The next question is the dismissal of the judge, the draft Decree 3646-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u108	On June 6, 2007, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice discussed the application of the High Council of Justice to release the judge of the local court in connection with the violation of an oath. The College of Judges, composed of Judges Hingeyev, Volková, Kozlova, by approval of May 30, 2007, stopped the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to suspend the appointment of judges for administrative posts and the dismissal of these posts. The application for the release of Judge Hingeev and Kozlov is addressed to the President and Volkova to the Supreme Council. The decree of the Supreme Council is not an act of individual action. Complaints of such acts are not within the jurisdiction of the district court. This is the exclusive jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Turn around. Attention, fellow believers, the decree was adopted on May 30, 2007, at the age of sixteen and fifty - four minutes. And the court began to consider the application less than an hour later. It is noted that the Head of the Supreme Council signed this decree only four hours after its adoption. Thus, the judges stopped the decision without its text. The Supreme Council of Justice established that Judge Volková’s case was violated by a judge’s oath. The judge made a notoriously unjust decision. The Justice Committee supported the application of the Supreme Council of Justice and issued the relevant text of the decree under registration number 3646-1 of June 6, this year. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be dismissed from office as Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev Volkov Svetlana, Jacob, in connection with the violation of an oath. Please be supportive. Dear colleagues! You need to be informed. A telegram has just arrived from the Head of the Pecher District Court that Judge Volkova cannot be present at the Supreme Council meeting as a result of the disease.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u109	I wanted to add something else to this information. Mikola Vasilovich Onischuk came to me this morning with the approval of the Obolon District Court of Kiev, which sent a copy of the appeal to the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This resolution contains the effective part of such a resolution. The court approved the suspension of the decision of the High Council of Justice of 06.06.2007 concerning Volková Svetlana Jakivna, concerning the submission of her release from office of Judge of the Pecher District Court of Kyiv to the case in fact. [[Let's see, yeah, it's probably as fast as we've considered here.]] Prohibit the Supreme Council of Ukraine to review the application of the Supreme Justice Council of 06.06. regarding the Wolf’s Light of Jacob’s release from the position of Judge of the Pecher District Court to deal with the matter in substance. The approval is subject to immediate execution. The approval may be appealed to the Kyiv Court of Appeal, an administrative court, through the Obolon District Court of Kiev. An appeal has been filed in the first instance for five days from the date of the appeal. If the approval is made without a call by the person who accuses it, the filing of an appeal application shall be calculated from the date on which it is received a copy of the approval. An appeal for the court’s approval shall be filed within 10 days of the filing of an appeal. I promised Mikola Vasilovich that I would be sure to familiarize myself with this approval before making a decision. But it's obviously a precedent for Sergio Vasilovich, and I think we're getting our first court ruling on the High Council of Justice. For as far as the Supreme Council is concerned, we have already received from Mukachev, indeed, that judge no longer works as a judge. But in this case, it is a specific situation that needs to be dealt with in accordance with the law. If necessary, we can put this question aside, and if there is no need or judicial procedure does not provide for it, then please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u110	There is a certain order that the People's Deputy Oneschuk is already serving in the executive service, because everything about the execution of judgements is being done in the executive service. The executor, the representative of the executive services, shall produce the relevant documents. Oneschuk must have already moved into that service and brought it himself. He has no right to take even the decision of the court and to deliver himself to an organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u111	I beg you, everyone chooses his own path. Well, why are you indignant right now? Please, don't worry. Regarding the substance of the matter. Sergei Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u112	I would like to tell you my distinguished colleagues, yesterday at the meeting of the High Council of Justice, the Supreme Council of Justice was formed from all the authorities: three from the President, three from the Supreme Council, three from science, three from lawyers, the President of the Supreme Court, the Attorney-General and the Minister of Justice. Thus, by secret ballot, so that there would be no questions, we held a vote on the judge who is today taking the Volkova to the meeting of the Supreme Council of Justice and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that Judge Volkov be dismissed. Well, the number of votes 4 against, 12 for, one didn't vote. So two-thirds. Everything was observed and the Supreme Council of Justice sent papers to our committee here yesterday. We considered it yesterday at a meeting of the Committee and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that Judge Volkov be dismissed for violating the oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u113	When did you make that decision, at what time?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u114	Well, I'll just be a minute. I don't remember. But maybe 17 somewhere, 17.50. We have considered several bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u115	And when did he make the decision if you were 17.50?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u116	I didn't see him, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u117	It had to be written down with regard to the application and everything else. It's a job that needs to be done. I think that the committee recommends the implementation of the ruling and recommendation and the appeal of the High Council of Justice. It's Parliament's will to act here. If. I see Paul Gnatovitch wants to make a statement on this matter. I understand we can't make a decision anyway. I give my word to Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I think it is not only the judges present who are ashamed of such actions by individual judges, but we are all ashamed as national deputies today. And there is no doubt that such judges should be put in place. They should not be allowed to violate the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution of Ukraine. I immediately urge the removal of such a judge from office and to recommend to the Ministry of Justice, all relevant structures to control such patriots who betrayed the Ukrainian people and broke their oath. And keep in check that his lawyer's specialty does not have room for life in Ukraine either by lawyer or notary, or by any means, let such a judge, I think, pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u119	I beg you, let us not give such a commission and pursue human rights. She can work as hard as she thinks she needs. This is about specific activities in society, a judge. In this regard, we can render a verdict either positive or negative. But this does not mean that we limit human rights. Paul Gnatovic evidently got hot when he said that, and we will take this into account. Please, Miroshnichenko and Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u120	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. This morning an open court of judges was held in the Pecher Court. As a representative of the committee, I took part in the work of these congregations, explained to the judges the position of the committee and the High Council of Justice, and explained that, indeed, according to the members of the High Council of Justice, who in secret voted, stressed, made that decision, there was a violation of the oath by judges. Since Sergey Vasilovich has just said, making decisions, especially the security approval that all the judges are present in the hall right now, they know that he is a tool of purely raiding or enterprise, and now political raiding is unacceptable. The Supreme Council does not want to make a personal decision, but it wants to put an end to it, first of all, by dismissing judges who are under the pressure of certain political forces to make similar decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u121	Thank you. Baranowski, as a lawyer, please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u122	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, well, we have judges who are a society. They reflect the state of society. And when all the judges are slobbering everywhere, that's what the President's Secretariat is doing today, when pressure is being exerted on the Constitutional Court, on the courts of general jurisdiction. We see that all of this has already been reversed today, and they want to transfer it to the High Council of Justice. We understand what they're trying to do: by destroying this judicial branch of power, we can do anything with Parliament, with all the other branches of power. So I think that these judges really can't work in the courts because of the information that the head of the committee issued today. But at the same time, I would like to point out that my colleague Sulkowski is very much in my opinion not loving the village and he wants to destroy it. Because if such judges, as he spoke, are sent to trap geese, the geese are exhaled: they cannot be sent. So let us both treat the geese and treat the village with such loyalty.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u123	Well, he meant Kiev, obviously. So let's get this problem out of the way. It's clearly a joke, but it's a serious matter: the fate of a man. So I'd like you to decide how to vote. The draft is in your hands. Please determine by vote. [[12:54:35]] For 257 The members of the Supreme Council support this decision. Decision taken. Thank you. We are in line for consideration in our second reading. [[Applause]] drafts a law on the exercise of the right to share, partly owned, property owned by former collective agricultural enterprises and reports to Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. I ask him to speak. The second reading is under consideration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u124	Thank you, Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, the distinguished national MPs, for the purpose of furthering and introducing to the Supreme Council a second reading of the law on the exercise of the right to share property by owners of previous collective agricultural holdings, a working group was set up, the committee considered proposals and all comments made to it. A total of 25 amendments were made to the committee, 24 of which are included either in whole or in part. One amendment is not included. There have been suggestions to us, but I will only say the most basic questions and because the general principles for the exercise of common property rights are defined by the Civil Code of Ukraine and the law's name needed clarification, namely that it regulates the specificities of the exercise of the right to share, partly property, property owners of collective agricultural enterprises. In this regard, the title of the bill is given in the following wording: The specificities of the exercise of the right to share and share property by owners of the former collective agricultural enterprises. We disagreed with the word “disposed” because it narrows down the concept and not the liquidation, but the businesses that are the successors. And in one of the positions, there's a record of the companies -- the law-abiding companies. That is to say, after 15.4.5 million citizens have received property in kind of 15, almost, and half a billion dollars, to date, unfortunately, for the purpose of efficient management of this property, its preservation has not been legally defined as a way of using such property. With this bill and these amendments, we do what this property needs to be used today, and it can be in accordance with the actual legislation that the Supreme Council will adopt. That is, the bill has undergone substantial changes and has been carefully developed into the second reading. Also, the fact that the first reading provided for the approval of the general congregations of joint owners of such rations and provided that the decision of the general congregations of coowners was taken by consent of not less than two thirds of the coowners in addition to the decisions regarding the alienation of property. So all the revisions are counted. The only unaccounted for national deputy Lukyanchuk to testify to the signatures of coowners by the head and the secretary of the congregations. This is contrary to Ukraine's Notaryate Act. So we can't take this correction into account. Everything else we agreed to, and we propose to adopt the bill in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u125	Ladies and gentlemen, I particularly appeal to the deputy of Lukyanczuk. Does he have any objection to using his amendments to such an editorial as the committee suggests? None. Do other amendment authors want to take the floor to justify their position, or do they want to withdraw the amendment itself or for other reasons? None. It's a second reading. Deputy Falco wanted to clarify something about some kind of correction, didn't he? Please take the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u126	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Sergey Mikolaiovich, please, is stated in the law that the periodicity of a statutory land valuation is not earlier than once every five, seven years. Yeah? Tell me, today, 10-15 percent rise to the ground, to other goods, everything. And we're going to make a cash assessment once every five or seven years. Please tell me, where is the truth?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u127	Answer. We also have a special law on the monetary valuation of land, and it is being done. And that's what happens at the expense of the state. And if the landowner wants and needs to sell, and he thinks that the assessment of this land is wrong, he orders it in appropriate structures and they do it at least ten times a year. Please, but. In this case, it does not apply to this second-reading bill, but it is a separate law, but I repeat that always a monetary valuation of land by the appropriate executive services can be carried out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u128	There is an estimated cost, namely the cost of selling or implementing property. So there are other procedures, then there's a tender working or a competition or something, but to this law it's written, in my opinion, I say my own opinion, it's written right here. What will be the reasoning on the adoption, the voting for this law. May I vote? Then if there's no comments and no suggestions from others, I'm voting on draft law registration number 2639 on the exercise of the right to share partial property by owners of former collective agricultural holdings. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:01:11]] For 251 Decision taken. A draft Law amending the Law on Telecommunications is under consideration. [[on increasing the number of services]] Registration number 2047 and reports this project to the first deputy head of the Transport and Communications Committee, Sergey Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexander Alexanderovich! This law was considered in November 2006 and seven amendments were made to the committee, some included, some taken into account, some taken into account, some not included. That's why I'm asking us to go over the lines.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u130	I'm sorry. Let's do that. After the amendments, let's go. The first amendment is editorially taken into account, doesn't the Amazing People's Deputy object? He doesn't mind. Amendment two. Not counted. Mikola Alexiyovich Danilin. Don't insist. Voropeyev, the third amendment is taken into account, he agrees. The fourth amendment of the Red Riding Hood is also counted and it's not protesting, I see. The fifth amendment of Wonderland is out of the question. What would Deputy Zdunowski say? He won't say anything. Danielle, the sixth amendment, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u131	Nikolai Danilin, faction of the Socialist Party, Mr. Kiev. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, this amendment concerns the development of a mobile communications network. And I would like to support this amendment. Why? Because when more than one million subscribers are increased or if the contract has already been signed for four years, there would be an overburden on those existing operators and this would encourage new operators on the market to develop their own networks. I mean, in general, to development and jobs and to the economy in Ukraine. I would like to put this to a vote and support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u132	Sergei Vasilovich, what does the committee think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u133	In voting on this amendment, the Committee has divided and, as the author of this Act, I can only express my opinion here. Because the Committee has decided not to support this amendment, I can only express my views here as the author of the law. Indeed, we have considered these rules on the subcommittee and the purpose of the adoption of this law was in general essential so that we can stimulate the development of truly more modern technologies, to which technology and MT-2000 are included. Both the number of subscribers up to a million, and the mandatory conclusion of a four-year contract, so that, for these four years, the new operators that enter the communications market today can develop their networks and are not located for a long time, can benefit from the networks of other operators that have developed these networks. I therefore request that this amendment be made to the discretion of the Chamber and that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u134	What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u135	My idea is to support her.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u136	The author’s view of the draft law is similar to that of the author of the amendment, considering that the committee may have had more transporters than its liaisons there. But if this is the case, let's define by voting. Who is responsible for supporting this amendment? Please, I'll bet you a vote. [[13:05:04]] For-48 This amendment is not supported. The 7th amendment is partially taken into account, do you agree with it? I'm good. And after the advance amendment, Mikola Alexiyovich, prepare a separate draft law, if this is adopted, then you can amend the law that works. If we are stimulating market development, services in the communications system, it is likely that this makes sense to limit, say, the capacity of those who work in the market. Zdnovsky - 8 correction counted. He does not insist that something be determined about her. So given our consideration, we can vote on the entire document, 2047 registration number. I ask you to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u137	The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u138	Please. [[13:06:16]] For 249 Decision taken. Thank you. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land Bevanzenko Valerij Fedorovich, head of the Committee's subcommittee on agribusiness, agrarian policy and land relations report. Also in the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u139	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! To implement Supreme Council decision No. 608 of 7 February 2007, the Committee worked on and prepared for second reading in accordance with the requirements of article 111 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure, the draft Ukrainian law on the amendment of article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land on the certification of territorial boundaries. In the preparation of the bill, there were eight proposals, three included, three included in part, and two rejected. With regard to the rejected proposals No. 2 and No. 6 of the Ukrainian National MP, the committee finds it inappropriate to detail the contents of the State Act and the procedure for its drafting, directly in the Ukrainian Code of Land. This is the form of a state act by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, not by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, since the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are governed by the legislative provisions governing land relations. In addition, proposal No. 7 of the Odarchenka People's Deputies generally changes the concept of the Law adopted in the first reading, since it is proposed that the boundaries of administrative, territorial formation be recognised, not by a State act, but by a plan of external administrative and territorial boundaries. The bill was initiated by the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Chief Legal Authority without notice. The committee proposes to accept the second reading, the set draft of the Law of Ukraine, and to accept it as a whole as the Law. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u140	Does Natalia Královska agree with the committee’s approach? Obviously, she agrees, for she does not object. And the other authors of the amendments have nothing to say about it. There is therefore an opportunity to be guided by this Law, and more specifically by an amendment. But I would like to pay attention to one detail. We often raise the question of the uncertainty of the jurisdiction of administrative and territorial formations in terms of territory, in terms of boundaries and so forth. So this is about these clarifications that we just have to use instead of saying that we don't have a legal basis in this respect. I am voting on draft 2412 on the amendments to article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:09:37]] For 252 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to Article 18 of the Land Assessment Act also follows the second reading procedure. Reported to the head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics and land relations, Valérie Fedorovich Bevezenko. The registration number of document 2509.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u141	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The bill, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the first reading of February 20th of this year, provides for the deadline for carrying out a statutory monetary valuation of land areas of populated areas not less than once every 5-7 years. In the old edition, this term was 7-10 years old. And land areas outside the population of agricultural destinations are not less than once every 5 to 7 years, non-agricultural assignments are not less than once every 7 to 10 years. It's about, once again, carrying out a normative monetary assessment. During the time that followed the adoption of the bill in the first reading to the committee, a note was received from the subject of the legislative initiative, which was partially taken into account. In view of what has been said, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in the second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u142	Is the author going to have some sort of reasoning on this? None. I can put to the vote Project 2509, it's a short law and it needs the support of the session room. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:11:28]] For 252 Valery Fedorovich, thank you for the good paperwork. The draft Law on the Public Programme for Electronic Documentation with Electronic Digital Signature is being announced for consideration. This is where the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, reports. Please. The procedure for second reading is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u143	Honourable MPs, the draft Ukrainian Law on the National Programme of Electronic Documentation with the use of electronic digital signatures has been introduced by the Government of Ukraine. At the direction of the Supreme Council, the committee prepared him for the second reading. The main objective of the programme is to stimulate public authorities and local self-government bodies; to replace paper technology for electronic documentation; and to speed up the work by providing electronic public services to the population and business. The current status of the problem continues to increase. Ukraine is far behind other countries in the use of new information technologies both in government and in the economic activities of enterprises and organizations of all forms of ownership. In 2003, a first step was taken: Ukraine's Electronic Documents and Electronic Documentation Laws were adopted, and electronic digital signatures were adopted. A second step has been taken by the government during 2003-2004 – a number of regulations have been adopted to ensure that these laws are implemented. Today, there are some achievements regarding the introduction of electronic documents by government authorities and local authorities. But first of all, the work of public authorities in communication with the population and business in electronic form needs to be intensified. This applies to the provision of numerous forms of help, reports, declarations of electronic form. The time has come to give this work, indeed, a purposeful systemic character. This third step is linked to the approval of the appropriate national program that we are considering today. Appropriate measures are planned to be implemented by 2011, and appropriate funding is planned for the first phase of 2008-2009. This program should be an integral part of the national strategy for reforming government, a systematic means of improving the relationship of power with the population and business. Ukraine, in today's conditions, should not be on the verge of scientific and technological progress, failing to implement information technology. This program has some advantages: - social orientation; [[to facilitate the relationship of the population with power]] - Economics; [[to improve business relations]] - administrative; [[by increasing the efficiency of the work of the authority itself]] - and finally, ecological. [[By replacing paper with electronic paper, we're going to cut fewer trees]] Of course, electronic documents and electronic documents are needed as quickly as possible. The Committee on Science and Education at its meeting on May 23, considered and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of this law on second reading and in general. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u144	I understand the position of the committee. And it is clear that the ten amendments to this law, all of which are considered by the committee, give reason to consider this project as a whole. The authors of the amendments that have been taken into account may have no doubt that this should be done. What about the others? Let us express our opinion by voting on the entire project. Registration number 2850. It's a law on a state-wide electronic documenting program using an electronic digital signature. I'm voting on this proposal. [[13:15:34]] For 255 Decision taken. It is proposed that the draft Act amending the Employment Act of Ukraine be considered in the second reading. Here reports the head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Kozakov Igor Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u145	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich and distinguished colleagues! You will have before you the draft Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Employment Act, adopted in the first reading by a working group established by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Labour, taking into account the comments and suggestions of the national deputies, as well as the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Legal Administration. It should be noted that the bill was very detailed and comprehensive in preparing it for the second reading. The working group that worked on it was formed on a tripartite basis: the State of Employers and Trades. The bill was submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputies with 170 amendments, all of which were taken into account, partially or editorially 148, and 22 were rejected. I would like to thank my colleagues who have been very actively involved in drafting the bill, which speaks of indifference to the problem of population employment and its extreme relevance. Each amendment was discussed and discussed in detail by the working group. At the same time, the rejection of individual amendments by deputies, such as Catherine Semenovna Samojlik and Vitalia Jakovič Šibka, is only due to the fact that they have already found their reflection during the drafting of the bill by the Supreme Council Legal Authority, but they could not be taken into account for editorial reasons. Compared to the current Ukrainian Employment Act, the bill found that such decisions were not sufficiently regulated or not regulated in the spheres. Identifying the legal status of the subjects who provide services in the labour market and strengthening their control in order to prevent trafficking in human beings, as well as protecting job seekers from unscrupulous intermediaries, as emphasized by our colleague, Mr. Sibko. The creation of places of employment for hired workers, including for a category of people who are unable to compete on equal terms in the labour market and with disabilities. Managing the mass dismissal of employees from the employer’s initiative. Simplification and facilitation for employers of compulsory employment procedures for individual categories of citizens who are unable to compete on equal terms in the labour market. Providing employment in rural areas, why a separate article of the bill is dedicated. As a result of the drafting of the bill in his preparation for the second reading he was agreed in the Supreme Council's Legal Office without notice. At the same time, I'm going to do a shorthand. That in the Final Provisions of the Bill in the title of Article 9 of the Personal Agriculture Act, the words “and social protection” should be added. Technical amendment – the title of the article after the amendment “State social insurance and social protection of members of private agriculture”. Indeed, very large work has been done, compromises have been made between the state and social partners, which, once again, underscores the need to accept it right now and also confirms it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u146	Let me finish. I mean, by procedure of second reading, you report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u147	In the minds of public officials, the public has come to have a shift in social policy, which is part and parcel of which is the employment of the population. I ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the prescribed bill of the Law and to adopt it in second reading and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u148	I would like to point out that the reporter made a statement on the rejected amendments by the deputies of Samylik and Šibko, saying that they are in a different edition, in other articles of the law. But there are many amendments that may require appropriate discussion or vote or determination of Parliament’s position. I'm asking the deputy of Vyezovsky. Its amendment 13 is only partially taken into account. Doesn't he stand up for his amendment? He doesn't stand up. Then the question to the deputy again of Vyezovsky. The 30th amendment concerning paragraphs 4 and 5 of Part One of Article 3 is partially taken into account only, not entirely. Well, he doesn't object, obviously, to the committee's point of view. MP Shamonov, 36 revisions also partially counted. Does the MP insist on voting on her? None. I mean, he doesn't insist. Long Taras Alexiyovich, also partially included 42 amendments. He doesn't insist on it. It's good when everyone agrees with the committee. Biruk, 73 revisions are partially accounted for. He does not insist on voting. Bondarchuk Ivan. No, sorry, Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatolyevich, 79, was rejected. Well, he's the noun today, we already welcomed him in the morning, but for. He's not going to fix it. Partly included Denisov’s amendment, 106. She doesn't insist. Red - tailed, partially accounted for 108 amendments. Do you agree with her? He's all right. 123 revisions partially counted. But this is Hiccup, the explanation was already there. So, given the attitude towards the amendments I have mentioned to the deputies and the positions of the committee, I have reason to put the whole project, 2596 registration numbers, this is a project change, actually a new edition of the Employment Act. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[13:22:43]] For 251 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Act on Pay for Work is under consideration. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, the Supreme Council's decision of 25 April 2007 was adopted on the basis of a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine and the Law on Pay for Work of Ukraine and entrusted to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work to finalize the bill and submit it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During the drafting of the bill, only two proposals were made. They refer to the structure of the bill and to changes not only to the text of article 10 but also to its name. I would like to point out that this law does not introduce an hourly form of pay, it is already, we only add certain guarantees to the proposed changes. Thus, article 85 of the Codex. The article is proposed to complement part five with the following content: “A rise in the monthly and hourly minimum wage is not a reason to increase normal tasks or working hours’ standards.” The same can be said of article 106 of the bill. The chief legal office called for a bill without notice and recommended that it be adopted in a second reading and as a law as a whole. At its meeting on May 16, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a second reading bill and a law as a whole. Asking for support, for there will be no logic when we have voted on the draft in the first reading and without making any additions or comments, we do not support it in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u150	Ivan Mikolaiovich, can you understand that this is about principles, not about, there, other things?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u151	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u152	About principles. Please, Peter Stepanovich. Although it's the second reading, and your amendment isn't, but since you're still the head of the committee of importance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u153	Thank you. Dear John Mikolaiovich! The Communist faction, Zybenko. Of course, the idea is extremely progressive. I would like to thank, including the drafters, who have submitted such a bill. And I am absolutely convinced that both the project's authors and the committee want, by accepting, recommending this document as better. But there is one fear. Let's think together about how to make sure that the shift to the hourly pay doesn't go back to the other side and that it wasn't used as a tool for another employee's oppression. What do I mean? So let's say the duration of the week, given that he can't pay for 41 hours, so that it doesn't end by reducing the work week to 30 hours and so on. So these mechanisms have to be put in place so that we really get the right return on this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u154	Dear Peter Stepanovich, as to your fears and warnings, and they, by the way, sounded in the course of the first review of the bill, regarding the possible non-employment of workers throughout the working day and on this basis the reduction of actual wages, we think they are somewhat exaggerated, because there are collective agreements and other norms that make it impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u155	Yes, there are no other comments. Registration number 2555. Thank you for amending the Ukrainian Labour and Labour Code. I would just like to ask you, Ivan Mikolaiovich, to look at the editorial title of the law. The code of laws on Ukraine's work, there's a little bit, maybe a code of laws on Ukraine's work, so to speak? But the Ukrainian Pay for Work Act, think about how to consult with lawyers. I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please. [[13:27:56]] For 253 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a few drafts before you for decisions on the holding or the appointment of out-of-order elections to the village councils, the selection of the heads of the country, more loyally, the selection of the heads of the country. I'd like to make a determination about these documents, and so I suggest you all have these documents, about the appointment of the Observative Head election on August 19th of this year. [[Radehivsky District of Lviv Region]] I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. [[13:28:51]] For the 250. This was registration number 3642. Now 3642-1 on the appointment of the alternate election of the village head, on the same date. [[Sack district of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. [[13:29:23]] For 251 This project supported........................................................... received more 3642-2, on the appointment of the successive elections of the Green Country Head of the Upper Nerrogchin region. This area is called the Great Crogachik. Similarly, on August 19 and on the basis of a personal statement by the head of the Elder about her responsibilities. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:30:10]] For 254 Why isn't it supported, I don't get it? The system didn't work anywhere. Huh? No, it's something with the system. Oh, 254 voted. This system didn't work, the signal didn't go through, and 254 went through. A decision has been made. 3442-3 is the appointment of the alternate election of the Jurijov Rural Head of Dobrovelychkov district of Kirovograd. Please, I'll bet you a vote. Here, she made a decision to put an end to the authority of the country’s head. [[13:31:04]] For 254 3642-4. This is the registration number in the decree on the appointment of the successive elections of the Kubratsky Rural Head of the Veselin district of Mikolaiiv region. I'm betting on the vote on this project. The head of the silrada also wrote an application for his credentials. There were reasons for him. Vote. [[13:31:37]] For 258. Decision taken. Project No. 3642-5 on the appointment of the successive election of the Annual Agricultural Head of the Trieste district of Sumo. I'll put it to a vote. Similarly, on the basis of a personal statement made by the head of the village council of Tamara Klishtova. [[13:32:12]] For 257 Decision taken. Registration number 3642-6, on the appointment of the successive election of the Bajrakow village head of the Nemirov district of Winnitsk. Please, so did Anatoly Clovis, who applied for his credentials, and I put it to the vote. [[13:32:47]] For 255 Decision taken. Registration number 3642-7. About the appointment of the secondary election of the Clepinian Rural Head. [[Krasnoggardsk Region of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea]] Similarly, Ludmila Kovalenko turned, the head of the silrada appealed to the silrada for her authority at her own request. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:33:27]] For 256 Decision taken. Registration number 3624-8. On the appointment of consecutive elections for the New Prague Village Head from the Alexandrian region of Kirovograd. In the same way, the head of the Elder Vitaly Solobus applied for his credentials. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:34:02]] For 257 Decision taken. I wanted to point out that this number, relative to the population in Ukraine, is not that large, because we're talking about tens of thousands, and that's what happens here. But they are not the least of them from the fact that the second stage of political reform has not been implemented. The heads of rural councils who do not have, for example, reliable sources of funding to carry out their duties find it difficult to work clearly. And the sooner the changes to the Constitution are accepted, and the changes to the law on local self-government, the law on the budgetary system, the tax system, until then we'll put the chosen people in difficult conditions. I think this is a lesson for all of us and, by the way, an additional argument about the need to continue, deepen and complete political reform. Draft decree on the appointment of the village of Wilshan Ichnyan district of Chernigiv district. Registration number 3627. The report will include Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich, deputy head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u156	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear fellow national MPs! The Chernigiv District Council has repeatedly violated before the Supreme Council of Ukraine the issue of clarifying the appointment of the village of Wilshan Ichnyan in the Chernigiv region. In 2005, our committee had already considered this issue and had brought it up for consideration by the Supreme Council, but then the decree did not get the required number of votes. Thus, the territorial community, the rural, district, and district councils violated the concern of the return of Olshan’s historic name, which had been known since ancient times. From the 17th century until 1962, the name of the village of Olshana, which is confirmed by the Ichnyan district’s archival department, appears in the documents available. Since 1962 the name of the village has been known as Wilshana in official reference books, but the name of the village has not been used in everyday life. There are 653 people living in the village, and there are 284. According to the village council, the cost of this is small, about 1 thousand 300 dollars. Taking into account the repeated references to the return of the historic appointment of the village’s territorial community, the concern of the village’s rural Ichnyan district council and the Chernig district council, the committee’s proposal is to agree on a positive solution. I ask the deputies to support the request of the territorial community of this village.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u157	Deputies! Tell me, do few, or do we have many settlements in Ukraine, especially villages that have thousands of years of history, roots have a millennium? If people want this root to be, let's say, and it's reflected in the name of the village and the village council, why don't we go to a meeting? That's because if they want to, they want to. Let's vote. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:37:47]] For 260 Thank you. 260-yes. Let's welcome the Olshans with what they've come up with, at last, their historical name. After all, 1032 years, you mean it's not often. What? Out of the hall. [[Unheard]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u158	Yes, please don't express yourself. Project 3629. The draft Decision on the renaming of a town-type village of the Stanično-Lugansk Stanično-Lugansk Region of Lugansk Region, as Vladislav Valentinović will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u159	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues, national MPs! The Lugansk District Council, on the basis of a request from the Municipal Lugansk Village Society, has violated its concern with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the renaming of a town-type village in Stanicko Lugansk, but this is a faster return to the village of historic appointment. Since 1719, there has been mention of a settlement called Stanitsa Luganska. According to the 1898 Encyclopædia Dictionary, the population of Stanice Lugansk was 20,000,400 inhabitants and was named Stanitsa Luganska. On June 28, 1938, by order of the Supreme Council of the U.S.R.R.R., the population was referred to the city-type settlement categories and was named Stanično-Luganské. The village of the city type is the district center of the stanično Lugansk district. Its population is more than 15,000. In March 1994, citizens in the local referendum expressed their support for the return of the village of the historic name Stanitsa Luganska. Taking into account the repeated citizens' appeals, the mentioned question of renaming the populace was supported by the Municipal Lugansk Village, the Municipal Lugansk District and the Lugansk District Councils. When the village is renamed, the name of the area and its institutions does not change, so the costs for these objectives are minimal and will be carried out at the expense of the local budget. Our committee considered and supported this issue unanimously and asked the national deputies to support the concerns of the village community and the Luhansk District Council on the return of the village of the historic name Stanitsa Lugansska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u160	When the committee considered this issue, it was obviously taking into account what it was about, let's say, the hint of the Cossack origin of the inhabited site, which is the subject of the pride of those people who live there. Let's support these proposals, please. [[13:41:07]] For 256 Decision taken. Similarly, we welcome the inhabitants of Stanica Luhansk, who are now accurately descendants of the Danish Cossacks, for they all know that they have the right roots. Please, the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, read again. [[on personal pensioners of local importance]] According to Peter Cibenko, Ukrainian national deputy, he is also the head of the profiling committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The draft amendment to the Law on Retirement for Special Retirement is proposed to include in the list of persons entitled to an appropriate supplement to the basic pension of 20 per cent of the local personal pensioners. We had this category of veterans until 1992. At the time of the adoption of this law, we made a proposal on behalf of the committee regarding their association with this law so that they would be subject to this law. But unfortunately, that's when we ran into the President's veto. Now we're back to that idea. This is a 20 percent supplement to the basic pension. For those who, for example, fear that this law can be used by high-ranking officials, I want to say that there will be no national MPs, no ministers, no other high-owners under this law. Instead, there will be those who have joined in strengthening the economic power of the region, the city, the area. Those who are hard and hardworking have earned this right to receive a personal pension of local importance. I'd like to talk about the scope of this law. I can just name a few areas of people who claim to be the subject of this law. Let's say the Odessa region is 58 people, the Dnipropetrovska is 64, the Ivano-Frankivska is 33, the Hmelnicka is 44 and so on. All over Ukraine, 1,500 people. If we talk about the cost of the problem today, I would like to point out that today, given today's rate, the cost of this change to the basic law is one and a half million dollars per year. One and a half million dollars a year. What I'm stressing is that these are today's calculations, because the law is proposed to be implemented from January 1st, 2008. These people are 70-80-90 years old, and it's obvious that, unfortunately, the number of these people is going to be a little bit smaller. Therefore, I believe that the adoption of this law will be an act of justice in relation to this category of Ukrainian citizens, and therefore I consider it necessary that we, after all, be the Supreme Council of Ukraine giving due credit to those who have strengthened Ukraine's economic capacity to give due credit and to include them in the first article of the Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u162	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. I'd like to pay attention to that detail. We're being listened to by radio today and they're thinking about what this is all about. So let me read this article in this scrap, a more faithful paragraph 6 of this article, so that we can understand what is going on. It's written in the law that it's distributed like this, let's say, the benefits, although that's actually compensation for the loss of the previous ones. Article 1, paragraph 6. To individuals honored by the honour of Ukraine, the former Soviet Union and the Ukrainian Soviet Union "Deserved", the honorary title of Ukraine "Mother Heroin", the state awards of the former Soviet Unions and the Ukrainian RSR, awarded by one of the Orders of Ukraine or the former Soviet Union with honorary credentials by the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR, or by the letter of the Presidency of the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian RSR.S. That's actually almost 20 years ago. As well as those who were granted allied personal pensions by January 1, 1992, only Republican or local value is added. So it's just a sign of equality between the categories of people who worked in good faith and had merit in front of the Fatherland and who have to be given due and that's relevant, I once again said, Peter Stepanovich, about a year and a half of a million dollars per nation. I don't think there are any questions about this law. Questions? At Bulby's? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u163	I just want to confirm that we are, in fact, in order for this law to work, because if 7.6 billion dollars were to be written off by the state of debt to the only energy systems, then one and a half million dollars would not be found for the people who deserve it, I think it would be shameful if we thought otherwise. And that's why I'm calling on everyone to just support it. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u164	Well, let's just say that there's a lot of comparisons here that could be introduced. He raises Ivan Mikolaiovich's hand, he's already talking, and we can find 300 million in the election, and we can't pay the veterans in a year? In a year, I repeat. I'm asking you, I'm voting on this bill as a whole. Oh, no? Do you have a question? Silchenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u165	Dear Alexander Alexander, Silchenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine You've just listed the categories to be added to the meager pensions, they're really meager pensions, there's nothing to talk about. But I didn't find two categories in this list. Individuals awarded a letter from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a letter from the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And also, Peter Stepanovich, I also addressed you to the head of the committee on the local council. There are rural, rural, urban, who have been elected three, three times in a row by deputies and naturally ask questions about taking into account any governmental, governmental merits, at least a small allowance. What can you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u166	Thank you. I answer your question. As far as the MPs are concerned. The committee has repeatedly considered these proposals. We supported it, but the point is, unfortunately, it's a pretty big expense today. And that's why, let's say, for today's budget, they're inoperable. Taking this opportunity, Alexander Alexandrovich, I would like to support your proposal for the adoption of this document as a whole. Because this norm, it's completely exhaustive. So in the process of preparing for second reading you can't add anything to it, just like you can subtract it. That is, the document has been in operation since January 1, 2008. So on behalf of the committee, I'd like to support you in the way that we can really accept this document right now as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u167	I think we're going to ask for the opinion of Deputy Minister Hotch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u168	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! With the good will of the Supreme Council, this year's government is providing timely payments and the pensions that you've raised, I want to inform you that in June, 50 percent of all the higher pensions have already been funded for today. Pensions for special merit are a million men. More than a billion dollars of expenses. Without denying in general the increase of pensions in this category, one possible second reading is being refined and you will be favored, and you will adopt this law. We put in one place and in one size a pension for the special merits of republican, federal, and local values. The distinguished national MP suggested that this law be extended to the deputies of the village and village councils. We're not going to deny that -- we're going to study this position, but in our view, in our second reading, we need to work on the differentiation of the pension. One credit to the community locally and Ukraine is unable to receive the same allowance. So this is going to be the subject of the second reading. And, Your Honor, Peter Stepanovich, I ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u169	I'm asking you to mean that these pensions are different in scope. So an increase of 20 percent also means that there is differentiation. Is that how I understand it? Peter Stepanovich, please. Says Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u170	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear Helen Vasilovna, well, let's say in the government you don't know the problem. And you know how nobody knows about the concept of a personal pensioner of local importance, which is what this law provides for, you can't add anything, you can't take it away. As far as the MPs are concerned. Well, you know very well that we have dealt with this issue on several occasions. The committee supported it, but because of the lack of necessary funds, unfortunately, he did not accept it. And now we can't solve this problem, maybe a little later. So I ask you once again, agree that we're going to vote on this document in two readings, that is, in general, it's all going to work on January, and nothing can be added to it. I'm asking you to agree to this approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u171	Please, come on. One second, Sergey Redfoot has not spoken yet, and he will be speaking from the committee now. But once again, I wanted to make one more point: the differentiation of the pension is not a percentage of the allowance, it's the size of the pension. If the pensioner had a pension, let's say, 500 dollars, it would be 600. But if it has 550 today, it's going to be 650, it's going to look something like that or whatever. Well, I can't multiply without a logarithmic ruler, so keep that in mind. Please, Sergey Redfoot of the Committee. Your opinion is out of the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u172	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I'd like to thank you because you almost said everything I wanted to report, which is to say the very ideology of this law. It's just that, like our colleagues and the Communist faction, the faction of the Socialist Party, the Party of Regions, I want to point out that the conversation is about marking those wonderful people, workers who in their own time, not in Soviet times for money, but for morals such as they say, encouragement, for encouragement, people worked, people created the potential of the state of Ukraine. And that is why it is our son’s duty to observe these people so that they may, in fact, be small, but have a penny from the State of Ukraine in gratitude for having created us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u173	May I vote? Can we all vote now? I'm voting on this project as a whole, which is supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, by the way. Please. [[13:54:12]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. We have two small questions to consider. First, to include a draft regulation amending the future legislative plan of the Supreme Council V by a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 30 November. And here's what John Bondarczuk will report, but first, we'll include it in the order of the day, and then we'll look at it. I ask you to vote. [[13:54:53]] For 252 You can see 252 for what trust John Mikolaiovich has in his colleagues. He knows they vote, they support him. Please report briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u174	Dear colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision of 30 November last year approved the future legislative plan for the Supreme Council of UkraineV calling, paragraph 187 of which provides for the drafting of the National Employment Programme for 2007-2009. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work has been approached by the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Tobacco, and there is an appropriate decision by the Committee of the Government of Social and Humanitarian Policy, which states that there is no need to draft such a bill. The issue of State regulation of the labour market for this period has already been regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine Order of 5 July 2006 on the approval of the main directions for the implementation of employment policy by 2009. In view of the above, the Committee has prepared and introduced a draft decision to amend the future legislative work plan, i.e. it proposes to exclude paragraph 187, because it also comes out of the new edition of the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, since it is the government's competence under the Act on Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u175	Thank you. How do you think you can vote? This document is very short on excluding one point from our ruling. I'm voting on this project as a whole, registration number 3549. [[13:57:13]] For 255 Ladies and gentlemen, yours. Decision taken, 255. The draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “To refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to diplomatic representations of foreign states accredited in Ukraine” is introduced for your consideration. The contents of this document. Then let's put it in the order of the day. “Agree the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to diplomatic representations of foreign states accredited in Ukraine. [[added]] And this decision has become effective since the date of its adoption.” And before that, that's the point. Listen carefully. “The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to diplomatic representations of foreign states accredited in Ukraine. On June 6, 2007, the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, stated, among other things, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I quote, "has lost its authority with the relevant international and legal consequences". In this regard, we should note that since the mandate of the Supreme Council under article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine ceases on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is no new convening of any constitutional basis for declaring Parliament invalid today. Moreover, the President of Ukraine, under the Constitution of Ukraine, has no right to establish the invalidity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as was effectively recognized in his decree of June 5, 2007 No. 497. This was preceded by two unconstitutional attempts by the President of Ukraine to put an end to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, which had also been removed from judicial control by his efforts. Such unconstitutional actions by the President of Ukraine cannot be accepted in Ukraine, where democratic values are recognized, the rule of law is in force, and there is little European community understanding and support. In addition, the activities of the Ukrainian Parliament in international relations, like those of other states' parliaments, are largely aimed at developing inter-parliamentary contacts. And then there is no and there is no direct international legal effect, unlike the constitutionally mandated activities in the field of international public law and other public authorities. Then, the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues its work in full compliance with the terms and conditions reached on May 27, 7th, between the President of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of Ukraine. In addition to that, I just want to say that we will have, in less than a month, the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly, which is responsible for organizing the work of the Ukrainian Parliament. How, then, can an authority, such as one who has lost the proper authority, handle the matter, which is an honor to the State, for Ukraine? Apparently, the president was wrong here. I would therefore like to say that on June 6th, the Deputy Head of the Secretariat of President Chali gave the Ambassadors of Ukraine in the countries of the European Union the urgent instruction to make every effort to recognize the legitimacy and legitimacy of the President's actions under the Decree on the Third Disengagement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Well, I get it, so I'm putting this motion to the vote to put it in order of day, please. [[2:01:07]] For 254 Then I'll bet. Can I put the content to the vote? I'm voting on this Order and the content. On the basis of the vote, please. [[14:01:37]] For 259. Copy that. 259. What was the correction? Anna Herman, please. Anna Mikolayevna speaks, everyone listens carefully. Out of the way. Herman, German.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u176	I propose after and instead of the word “problem”. "Will Europe accept "and so on say: "and we are convinced that we cannot be accepted by the democratic community of Europe and the whole world." Instead of the word “opportunity to Europe” there before that text. Instead of the word “can hardly accept” “we believe it cannot be accepted by the democratic community of Europe and the whole world”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-07-m0.u177	Come on. Can we do that with an amendment? I'm voting in general with a reasonable amendment to Hanna Mikolayovna. Please, in general. [[14:02:53]] For 253 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, we've made up our plan for today. I'm asking for your attention! Tomorrow. I declare the morning session closed. The meeting will begin tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good-bye.
