ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u1	Good morning, honourable deputies, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council. Today's the seventh number, Wednesday. Deputies, please prepare for registration. Take your seats. There's a roll call coming in. [[10:02:16]] Registered -436 Four hundred and thirty-six national deputies are ready to work on the schedule you are about to receive. I merely remind you that, in accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, today we have time to make proposals, announcements, statements, messages, so I ask you to sign up for those who would like to make a statement. Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! A very important vote took place yesterday in the Supreme Council. I want to thank all the national MPs who supported the bill initiated by our faction on the protection of the gas transport system and the strategic property of Ukraine's oil and gas complex. At the same time, in the evening programs there was an attempt by representatives of our political opponents to try to explain this vote either as a pianist or as a vote that has no real basis. Officials explained that no negotiations were under way on the gas system. At the same time, I just want to remind you in chronological order that the position that we heard yesterday from this rostrum is the position of Vice-Prime Minister Clovis, and that position that is publicized by the government doesn't correspond to reality and do not match. Mr. Azarov made it clear yesterday that negotiations are under way on the gas system, on the creation of a joint venture, in order to spare gas, and on the national acquisition of Ukraine. Mr. Boyko, who does not know, is the Minister of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine, has clearly confirmed the existence of agreements between Putin and Yanukovic on the surrender of the gas transport system and the creation of a joint venture. At the time when the Supreme Council voted in favour of this law, the Minister of Fuel and Energy of the Russian Federation, Mr Kristenko, made clear that there were such arrangements and negotiations on the creation of a joint venture, but not on the basis of Gazprom, but on the basis of the Ukrainian gas transport system. So, dear colleagues, I want to pay attention to the blasphemy that sounded from this rostrum yesterday and in the media and continues to echo. And another nuance. Many performances and yesterday, and I think they'll be echoing for a while, testifying to the fact that people either don't understand or don't want to understand what law they voted for. It is explained that there was already a position to ban the privatisation of Ukraine's strategic property, without which Ukraine was virtually deprived of the ability to protect its energy interests and was deprived of the national security dimension at all. I want to explain to those who have failed or who have no desire to understand. It wasn't just about banning the privatization that we voted for yesterday. It was the inability to manipulate Ukraine's property now, the inability to rent it, the inability to bankrupt it, the inability to transfer it to some semi-criminal joint venture. It is impossible to manage them as Rosukrenerego does today, which uses Ukrainian gas shelters, etc. That's why, dear colleagues, I welcome you with the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u3	The deputies Simonenko and Alexandrovsky signed up next door, but they hand over their votes, the right to speak to John Alexiovich Gerasimov. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u4	Gerasimov, Communist faction, President of the Council of the Ukrainian Veterans Organization. Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished people's deputies. Corruption in public authorities is one of the main vices of our society and a major obstacle to the country's successful development. Its scale is so great that, unfortunately, the whole world already knows about it. Whoever has not called for an active fight against this scourge, including from this rostrum, but all our plans and appeals remain only good wishes, which are not backed up by concrete measures, which only contributes to the spread of corruption in all areas of our society. I have been asked by the Royal Regional Organization of the Suma region veterans to draw the attention of the leadership of the country to the fact that the Royal Bread Combination is deliberately leading to bankruptcy with a view to its easy privatization. Respectable colleagues are responsible for an enterprise whose success depends largely on the budget of the entire region. At my request, these facts were also verified from the responses received from the Cabinet of Ministers, the Sumu District Administration, the Attorney-General's Office, the State Shareholder's Company, Bread Ukraine, which showed that before 2002, the combination worked profitablely and had excellent economic performance. But after 2002, there was a turnout for business leaders. During this short period of time, three directors were replaced. As a result, as at the beginning of this year, the loss of the combination had exceeded 4 million grevens and the debt of creditors amounted to 14.1 million grivens, of which 5 million were bank loans. In this example, it is not the very fact that the business has been bankrupted that we have, unfortunately, thousands of such examples, but here the emphasis is very, very careful, so to speak, the attitude of the authorities of the wealthy officials towards those officials who have brought the combination to such a dismal state. According to veterans, two of his former directors were nominated and worked as heads of district government administrations in Sumska oblast, and the third was headed by the Talnikovowa Congregation of Bread Products in the Cherkas region. It would be very interesting to read the so-called lenses that were written by responsible officials when these former directors of the combination were placed in such high positions and compared to the true state of affairs to which they led the combination. And it's called fighting corruption. Who are they kidding, gentlemen? You can be sure that both in a new place and these and their leaders will ensure their personal well-being and the well-being of their patrons by not building them up at all, but by destroying what has already been created by humans, but only on a large scale. They're usually unable to create something new. And there's no way that we can find the answer to the question why the country's been on the ground for 15 years. And the eaten egg is not worth telling the leaders of all the higher bodies that they simply take heroic measures to save themselves from the bankruptcy of this combination. I ask that I carefully address these atrocities, identify the perpetrators and take appropriate action. I would like to make my statement as a parliamentary request to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the Attorney-General of Ukraine and to the Suma Regional Administration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u5	Thank you. John Boki gives the word to Michael Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u6	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! The main thrust of State creation is to build a legal democratic state. The authorities of the State should act transparently and exclusively in the legal field. Only when the authorities are transparent, accountable can they respond effectively to what they want to see, hear, and receive. Clearly, it is not political strife and the desire to use authority in their own interests. Attempts to initiate the resignation of Alexander Moroz from his position as speaker clearly indicate the unwillingness of individual political groups to accept that polytreform has changed the disposition of forces, that power will no longer be in manual administration but regulated by laws. The Law on the Cabinet of Ministers was the last attempt to bring the situation back, in other words, to question the constitutionality of its own reform. That is why artificial tension was created in the political, social, and media fields. Why does Yushchenko not want to discuss amendments to the Kabmen Law? After all, Parliament has already registered an appropriate project, demonstrating its willingness to compromise and cooperate. There are no issues in the bill registered with the President. The Supreme Council is ready to give consent to the President's creation as head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In spite of everything, Viktor Yushchenko went out into confrontation from his surroundings and appealed to the Constitutional Court. The head of state is thus again brought back to the unworthy, senseless opposition to the scope of authority. On January 12, the Supreme Council, with 366 votes, defeated the President's veto and thus passed the constitutional ruby. The Kabmin Act, by virtue of its principles and consistency, has opened the way for us to adopt a series of constitutional laws on the President, on the PNDP, on local administrations. In other words, the desire of the authorities to work in the legal field was clearly defined. Everything that happened after that can be called verbal speculation. The experience of members of the Socialist Party faction and the desire to implement our pre-election promises has led to the search for compromises with other political parties and effective cooperation with the government. Work has been done to harmonize with coalition partners the basic principles of internal and external politics. We call on all colleagues in Parliament to work for the State for the Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u7	Thank you. The word Sivulski conveys to Tomenka Mikola Volodymirovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! I wanted to draw attention to the serious problem that we marked yesterday in the session hall as one that we should definitely consider as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is the disorder, chaos, and irresponsibility of many local authorities in tariff policy. I'm sure the session hall and the government finally understood this in February, but our political power, in Kiev's example, by creating a special commission that analyzed the reasonableness of tariffs, can report today and report to the Chinese about the fact that, according to the main indicators of energy companies in Kiev, unwarranted high tariffs are about twice. The accounts of our experts, the Kiyevrada deputies, such as Alexander Kluss, Semimen Borisenko and a group of other professional professionals in Kyivrada confirmed that only after the “Kiyevwatercanal” actual price hikes, tariffs should be only 1.69 times, not 3.4 times, as it was done. We are convinced that the Kiev City Administration and tomorrow the Kiev City Council will not just turn tariff policy into a legitimate one and cancel 3.4 times, but, above all, apologize to the Chinese people they have not only lied to but have been humiliated and placed in a situation where, according to sociological research, only 20 percent said they were able to pay for this amount of housing services. I would like to say that, despite the fact that we are living in a democratic society, our deputies working on a commission of tariffs are now under serious pressure and their companies are being tested for proving illegality and crime of raising tariffs. In particular, Kiev’s No. 7, which is headed by our deputy, Simeon Borisenk, is under review today for several months and is threatened by the fact that if he is in Kyivrad, he will have a problem with his business. I think that today our majority in the Kiev Council, which consists of the Chernobyl bloc, the Party of the Regions, the Socialist Party, have decided to mention the kuchmian methods. I would like the law enforcement authorities to pay attention to this, just as our government and the Ministry of Education pointed out, that a few years ago we stopped building a skyscraper together on the territory of the Institute of Pediatrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology of the Academy of Medical Sciences. Today, the chiefs of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Kyivrada MP’s Corps have decided that we need another park to eliminate in Kiev and build a skyscraper there. I am addressing the Ministry of Health and the law enforcement agencies with what we will do to prevent this cloud from appearing in an extremely important place where our children are raised. So I'd like to pay attention and form this as a parliamentary question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u9	Please form. Matthew's handing over his right to speak to Samilaka Katherina Semenovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u10	I want to carry out a mission of almost 180th-thousand troops of construction workers, who are hopefully taking steps by the government of the anti-crisis coalition to support and develop this important sector. Despite economic difficulties, companies have been able to maintain their productive capacities. But companies are able to fully meet the needs of agribusiness operators in technology. Despite the increase in metal prices by almost 48 percent in recent years, energy twice the price of its production increased by only 19 percent. At the same time, Ukraine’s agricultural market is gradually being filled with imported equipment, with one that has already been used. This threatens the loss of their own industry and the loss of the nation’s food security. The volume of agricultural imports is steadily increasing. In 2004, it was imported for $460 million, for the 2001 United States of America, for $600 million, for $788. We've got a tech coming in from Russia. and the United States of America. I'd like to say the next thing is that it's our technology that's using demand both across the country and we have it, and we're destroying our agriculture. This, of course, contributed to the changes to the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, which was adopted in 2005, precisely from the initiative of that political force that boycotted the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine yesterday, where customs rates were reduced to zero, to combine grain harvesters – 0 per cent, on the hydrotechnics in many cases also by 0 per cent. Is this a crime against the state and against the peasants, and we need to consider that the price of technology is much higher. We also know that repair and service centers are not created in our country, and sometimes spare parts cost much more than technology itself. And so, of course, today we need all and, above all, the Committee on Agricultural Policy to do everything we can to ensure that all compensation and subsidies go hand in hand with the domestic producer. It's all right, isn't
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u11	Thank you. Kravczuk gives the word of Korniczuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u12	Dear presiding officers, distinguished deputies! I would like to draw your attention to a problem that has now reached its peak year. It's the Elite Center problem. At this time, at this moment, the people who turned out to be buyers of an unscrupulous builder are taking care of the Kyiv City Council. The problem is complex. And unfortunately, for today, I have to say that, after the course of the year, almost nothing has been done for these people. I would like to remind you that this began with the fact that the unscrupulous builder had misled more than a thousand families, the Chinese, and not just the Chinese, but the people who were going to move to Kiev and order a place to live. The money's gone, and as of today, they're trying to get that money back, but it's all in vain. I remind you that when this happened exactly a year ago, the Kiev City Administration, under the leadership of Mr. Omelchenk, did not draw attention to the issue of the Chinese. And I'm sure that's what led him away from a lot of voters in Kiev. Then, when today's mayor Crnovetsk came to power with his rogue team, he continued to ignore the problems of the Chinese. Today they were offered several schemes, which he's trying to make again with his team. That is, to allocate additional areas, to conduct and engage new investors, to raise money in the city’s treasury, and only partially, to make about 30 percent of the liabilities owed to the customers. There were many suggestions as to what seems to be the city’s administration beyond this process, that people are to blame themselves, and they have to test their customer. But I think that's the problem with the state. And we have to protect our voters and make it impossible for them to use their money. After the Elite Center in Kiev, similar problems have arisen in Kharkiv, Crimea, and this will be a unique problem if we do not solve the issue comprehensively. Today, thanks to the efforts of our team, the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, we have prepared a bill, and in the near future we will hand it over to the session room, and hopefully you will support it, aimed at returning money to the citizens and a more clear and transparent system of procurement and construction. The March construction committee will also listen to the above - mentioned question. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u13	Karpuk conveys the word of Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u14	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Statement by the faction “Our Ukraine”. The parliamentary majority and its government have finally decided to set up a clan-oligaric dictatorship in Ukraine under the leadership of the Prime Minister. The so-called Law on the Cabinet of Ministers is a clear step toward dictatorship. We have no doubt that this document will be declared unconstitutional, both because of its content and because of its illegal adoption and publication process. However, the Commune-Oligarchic Coalition doesn't care. Its goal is the full usurpation of power in this regard, directed by a number of recent bills. For example, the bill on amendments to the Act on the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine aims to abolish the Secretary-General's office and the entire Security Council's apparatus, as well as to enforce the decisions of the Security Council, depending on whether the relevant decree of the Prime Minister or another member of the government is being enforced or not. Thus, the ruling coalition deliberately destroys the system of power in a vital area such as defence and national security, and that is to say, in the sphere of ensuring the State’s rights and freedoms. The draft amendments to the Constitutional Court Act prohibit the consideration of laws amending the Constitution by the Constitutional Court. Although a similar law was passed last August, the Constitutional Court is already considering its unconstitutionality. Obviously, the initiators of this legislative innovation and intervention in the authorization of a single body of constitutional jurisdiction realize that consideration of this matter may be inconsolable to them. However, the main blow is directed against the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of the constitutional rights and freedoms and territorial integrity of the country. The governing coalition sees it as one of its main tasks of adopting changes to the Constitution that will destroy the system of local government administrations, and the whole region will actually be paid to the local princes for ransom. With total corruption and disregard for laws, this means a total loss by the state of control over its territory and a real threat to its integrity. Individual coalition representatives go even further by proposing that the President's national election be abandoned or that the President of Ukraine be abolished altogether. We should not think that people will be silent about such experiments on their own country. To prevent the constitutional coup "Our Ukraine" will use all legal and political means to protect the rights, freedoms and dignity of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u15	The word for Harry, who agreed to pass it on, is given to Stoyan. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. After him, Teren.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u16	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The theme of my speech is political stability and political responsibility in Ukraine. Why did I take up the subject? You know, I got a lot of calls yesterday and today about how embarrassed it was for Ukrainian citizens to watch the work of the Supreme Council when a certain political power to declare itself to propiate itself was blocking the rostrum. Why? In order for us to vote for the existing and existing law. And today a representative of this political power is speaking and says, "Oh, how strong we are, 430 votes." You're not strong! The coalition didn't scare you, we voted because we wanted Parliament to work properly. They voted for an empty law. And you had to do it to get yourself drunk. So I urge this political power: stop the blackmail of the people of Ukraine, stop the blackmail of politicians. You're saying again that you're collecting signatures to reverse political reform. You may have forgotten, Your Honor, that this law was passed in a package with the Electoral Law. So let's also cancel the Presidential Elections Act, on election change. Let's cancel it then. We understand why you're doing this: you've got to hold on to yourself by 2009 and you've got to get on with it. And you're doing this to make sure that in the peak of the President, not to us, coalitions, but to go to the elections, and to do everything at this time to humiliate your President even more. So we say, let's work properly, let's not press the situation, let's not lie. Yesterday a colleague from “Our Ukraine” spoke and said, “You see, Janukovich in Hersson said that a gas pipe would be passed on. This is Katerina Samoylik, here is Plaštinsky, Kazakov and I, from the very beginning with Prime Minister Janukovic to the very end. And the premier at the theater said, when asked about this pipe, he said, "This is provocation." Yes, why are you twisting your words? Stop lying to the people of Ukraine, let us speak the truth, let us unite. I think there's probably nothing left for this team to do to keep pianising. I remembered a recent event: a group in Kiev had been flying around a meteor center. Why? Because, you see, the weatherman says it's going to be warm in January. They said, "Give me the cold." Well, maybe it's time you passed the law to cancel the spring? But the spring will come, the coalition will work, there will be no early elections, because the people of Ukraine want us to work properly. And I call for normal cooperation, not opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u17	Victor Terrence has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u18	Well, respectable colleagues. Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". And something else is new when they start speaking and they're going to be madly critical of what they voted for yesterday. Well, you know, these are cases where, well, they might need some testing, but we're not going to stop at that. I want to say something else, I want to say that the Political Repression Victims Act, the victims of political repression in Ukraine, was passed more than 10 years ago, more than 10 years ago. Similarly, it was accepted in Russia, Belarus, and other Post - Soviet republics. Please, in Russia, 12 amendments to this Law are similar in Belarus. So these laws are actually rewritten and they take into account the realities of today's life. It is about extending the operation of this Law to persons who have been unlawfully condemned. For example, in Russia they have long been rehabilitated, and I call them “children” who have been imprisoned for only 12 years. It was an article for colossals. They were tried for three to seven years, and if they were in the field somewhere, they were torn apart during the famine. In Russia these people are rehabilitated, in Belarus too. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with which our committee works closely in Ukraine, no. These children are not rehabilitated, they're probably guilty because they're Ukrainian. Well, that's true. Please, during the work of the Supreme Council of the past assembly, three times our faction has made a draft decision on hearings, on social, economic, other problems of the Ukrainians who have been displaced from Holish, Lemkowščina, Podlješa. And please, all three times, thanks to the well-known faction, this was blocked last time during the work of the Supreme Council in the past convening. We held a hearing on the Crimean Tatar people. We held hearings on the Roma, problems, committee, parliamentary, Ukrainian issues can't even be heard. You can't even listen, because these people are Ukrainian. I mean, there's this absolutely amazing situation, the same thing that they planted in Russia, the same thing they planted in Belarus, the same thing they did in Belarus, they're rehabilitated there, we don't. So it's some kind of total anti-Ukrainian or phobia. I don't understand. And so I would very much like to ask, Alexander Alexandrovich, and today we have found an understanding for which I am grateful that all the bills that apply to the fate of the people who have been completely unjustly condemned by this regime. All these amendments to the bill were considered in the session hall. The other thing is to vote for them or not to vote, but to bury our heads like an ostrich in the sand is no longer possible, because it is something new when the same person who formed the agenda during the work of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u19	Thank you. We finished the factions. I've only got one request for everyone who's coming out of the rostrum. A national MP cannot take the initiative to promote legal nihilism. If the law is voted in Parliament and there are 366 votes, it is the law, not the so-called law. And it's going to work and it's going to work. And if this law is declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, then it will be “so-called”. But that's not gonna happen. You can be calm. That's the first one. And then we need to look closely at those laws that are proposed for consideration in the Supreme Council, in particular the Constitutional Court Act, the draft Constitutional Court Act, which I have agreed with the President of Ukraine in my own time, concerns, firstly, the need to speed up the consideration of issues that are proposed for guidance either by the Supreme Council or by the President so that there is no such thing as has happened in previous years when the bills or external statements have not been considered. And now there's a three-month limit. Please let the Constitutional Court conclude. I think it's perfectly legitimate. There are certain norms that do not conform to the rules of the Constitution, so I have been instructed to make appropriate changes in order for us to consider the law in a way that is entirely consistent with the Constitution. I'd like you to pay attention to that. And all that is happening today in changes to legislation is caused by the need to bring all legal relations into line with the Constitution. To the requirements of the Constitution. And it's going to continue, like it or not, because it can't be. There can be no two constitutions in the state. Now I have an announcement that I am obliged to make and do in accordance with the Rules. That, in accordance with article 13 of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and 59 articles of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am informing you of the entry of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Soltus Pavel Stanislavovich, as part of the MP's Party of the Regions, and on the basis of his personal statement of membership in the anti-crisis coalition of the MPs of the Party of the Regions, the Social Party of Ukraine and the Communist Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The question is: information on the participation of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in the first part of the 2007 session of the Parliamentary Assembly. This is also the norm of the Rules. And according to this, the head of the Permanent Delegation, Vitaly Jakovitch, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u20	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. During the first part of the second session of the PARJE in 2007, the delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine sent daily reports on the work of the session and members of the Ukrainian delegation, which was distributed to the media. A press conference was held last week, and the report on our work was brought to every committee of the Supreme Council and factions. I think each of you have been familiar with the materials that have been distributed. It was about the order of the day session, the content of the resolutions and recommendations adopted, the individual thoughts of the meeting participants, and the presentations of the members of our delegation. The public was informed of the meetings of the delegation that took place during the session. So in my report, I'm going to stop at certain aspects of our work, which I think are the greatest interest for us, for Ukraine. Although all the questions that are being discussed at the Assembly of the Council of Europe are to some extent relevant to Ukraine, even if our State or the actions of its officials were not mentioned there. One of the main issues discussed at the sessions was the threat of using energy supplies as an instrument of political pressure. According to a report by the political committee, Michaelson said that the consideration of this issue was determined by events early last year regarding the supply of Russian gas to countries in central and western Europe. Parliamentarians from many countries have expressed concern that the gas market has been monopolized in its time by Gazprom. Thus, the resolution, which was adopted in a session with many amendments, called on Russia to ratify the Energy Charter in Europe. It was also about the need to start developing alternative energy sources and to support the initiative of the member states of the European Union by 2010 to increase the share of energy from renewable sources to 12 percent of total energy supply. As you can see, this question is interesting and urgent for us. Unfortunately, none of the members of our delegation took part in the discussion of the mentioned issue, but for the media there were comments, especially our colleagues Simonenka and Nemira, they are all familiar to you. In the debates on other issues discussed during the session, we were more active, and individually we were given the authority to express our opinion from our political groups. This is particularly true of the issue of illegal employment in Europe and the situation of illegal migrants in temporary employment agencies. The idea of a group of socialists, on whose behalf I spoke and which includes a large majority of our colleagues, was to bring into line with the legislative base of countries where many migrants from other countries, including Ukraine, work for social protection of farm workers in their interaction with workers. It is important that all member states of the Council of Europe sign and ratify the Migrant Workers Convention. The right thoughts were expressed in a speech by colleague Bondarenko in discussing the issue of combating the spread of the HIV epidemic, AIDS in Europe. She shared Ukraine's experience, where since 2001, a programme to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV has brought attention to the problem of discrimination against HIV-infected and AIDS patients at work, in educational institutions, in the home. An address at the session of colleague John Popescu in discussing a draft resolution on compliance and commitments by Albania showed that we do not care what Europe is to build today and the future. Because it was about such interesting things as reforming local and regional self - government, fighting corruption, building violence and human trafficking, and reforming the judicial system. From the point of view of Ukraine’s role in the development of Europe, our colleagues, the Chief and the Pisarenka, spoke. The need for Russia's ratification of Protocol 14 is one of the conditions for the continued existence of the European Court of Justice with the rights of people who currently have about 90,000 pending cases. You know that every year there's an increase in the number of Ukrainian citizens. By the way, Sergey the Head of Staff, who spoke on this issue, presided several times over the session. As for Pisarenko’s speech, the problem of his speech with the Chernobyl problem, with Chernobyl’s AES from the question of responsible food consumption, was rightly imprisoned. After attending the session for the first time, colleague Gerasimük was quite insistent in his position to amend the draft resolution on the struggle and threat of life and freedom of the word of journalists, which suggested intensifying the parliamentary investigation into the murder of Russian journalist Hanna Politkovsky. As we can see, regardless of the Ukrainian MPs' affiliation with different political groups, they tried to defend European values, the role and authority of PARJE, according to its President Vanderlinden, is the moral conscience of Europe. It is through the Council of Europe and its Parliamentary Assembly that Ukraine should build its path of European integration. During the Assembly, the Ukrainian delegation was briefed on the previous report of the Monitoring Committee of the Assembly of Siverensen and Wolvend on Ukraine. His text was published and translated into English after the committee had considered it. I think my colleagues have already met him, so I'm just going to take a few moments. First. Despite some claims in the press, Ukraine continues to be interesting to the European community in our efforts, both to integrate with Europe and to integrate Ukraine itself. The other one. The previous report contains a very scrupulous analysis of the positive developments since the previous mission in February 2006. This also applies to the 2006 parliamentary elections, the formation of government, the state of media, and the fact that after the changes to the Constitution, no branch of power has a monopoly on power. The latter was noted as a positive factor in the breakup with the past. Reporters noted that Ukraine ratified the 60th Treaty of the Council of Europe and signed 29. Although let me specifically point out that Turkey, which is currently in the form of a post-monitoring dialogue, has ratified more than 110 treaties. And the last. Reporters noted as a problem that the promises of the site to maintain a clear, honest and competent administration and to promote the rule of law and transparency at all levels were not fulfilled. In this regard, they were concerned about the issues that needed to be resolved. Concerns and even disappointments were also expressed in his address to the General Secretary of the Council of Europe, Terry Davis. They were related to the fact that there are still no results in the investigation of the Georgia Gongadze case, which he felt had a negative impact on Ukraine’s reputation abroad. As we can see, there is more to work on, and I think we will work hard on it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u21	Thank you. We're taking this information into account, so it's going to be distributed to the MPs, and you can all get to know and evaluate yourself depending on how you appreciate the representation of your political power in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. This is the initiative of the Committee on Budget Affairs. The chairman of the committee is Mr. Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! You have a draft resolution prepared by the Committee on Budget Affairs, which provides for the drafting of drafts that are under consideration by the Supreme Council and directly by the Committee on Budget Issues, including the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Committee on Budget Affairs. In view of the end of the 2006 budget period, bills for amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2006 have become obsolete. In connection with the Ukrainian National Budget 2007 Act, adopted on 19 December 2006, and its entry into force on 1 January 2006, the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision on the specificities of the budgetary process for the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 was no longer valid at number 2749. According to part two of article 90 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Supreme Council may, by its decision, withdraw the bill from consideration if, as a result of the adoption of other legislative acts or other reasons, the bill has lost its relevance. Thus, we would like to support the adoption of a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the withdrawal of certain draft bills, which provides for the removal of bills for registration numbers: 0826, 1073, 1106, 1107, 2015, 2290, 2321, 2422 and 2749. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u23	Is there a question for Vladimir Volodymyrovich? Do you have a question? Yavorowski has one question. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u24	Vladimir Yavorowski. Dear reporter, the first position that we're taking is the law on amending the state budget. It's about making a part of, a large part of the cost of selling the Crevice Metallurgy Combine to compensate citizens for the loss of money savings. I understand the train's gone. I understand the year is over. But I want to know how the national MP is not executed. After all, the decision was taken by the parliament of the previous convocation. And I'm voting for this bill today, so, you know, conscience doesn't allow it! Where did the money go from selling the Crimson Combine? Today, no one can answer either in the old government or in the new government. How am I supposed to be? Say it. Vote for filming and forgetting this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u25	Thank you, Vladimir Alexandrovich, for asking. The language goes on to say that the Ukraine Act amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 on the allocation of funds from the privatization of VAT The Krivorizki Mining and Metallurgical Combined “Crivorizstal”. Insert a new draft for 2007. And we're going to look at it with you in this room. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u26	No more questions, right? Please sit down. I don't think there's anything to discuss. Because the committee's proposal is quite correct to remove the issues that relate to another financial period. That's why I'm putting a draft ruling to the vote, please be sure. [[10:50:40]] For 275 Decision taken. A draft Law on State Energy Regulation in Ukraine is under consideration. The word has the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, Bronnnikov Vladimir Kostunica.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u27	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! Ukraine's economic and social and political life is increasingly affected by the unfolding cycle of the global energy crisis, which is accompanied by military interventions, energy-policy contractions, growth, literally, in terms of world prices for primary energy, both oil and gas, and coal and uranium. It exacerbates the crisis and national circumstances. This is also a debilitating high energy intensity of the industry, and this is a low capacity to pay for the population, and these are the core energy funds that are worn over every measure. It's also a lack of own oil and gas, it's a lack of safe coal mining technologies, it's expensive. The centralized public power supply is particularly distressing. Freezing cities and villages are already becoming the norm in Ukraine. A special feature of energy is that most of its methods of production and delivery are natural monopolies. Monopolies are essential for the livelihood of every inhabitant, every subject. This is a product that is used simultaneously by all, a product that is already demarcated at the time of production. Energy is also a major business. Millions of dollars in circulation, which means that business must be transparent to society and beneficial to society. It is clear from this that a special body is needed in the State to regulate energy. The regulation now has much to do with the National Electricity Regulatory Commission, neither the name nor the substance of which are no longer in line with the demands of today, as confirmed by the tariff crisis covering Ukraine as a whole, and the lack of clarity of the decisions taken, many of which are only in line with the seven-minute interests. Nor do they meet the long-term challenges of ensuring Ukraine's energy security, including the establishment of the foundations of independence from the world's energy crises. In our view, the fundamental principles of energy regulation should be the professionalism of the regulator, its objectivity and collegiate decision-making. The collegiality of the decisions of the Commission is, in our view, absolute equality of its members, which can be achieved through a transparent procedure for their appointment, by the planned rotation of the Chairman of the Commission. It is also essential to create the necessary conditions for objectivity, independence in decision-making by the Commission, which is achieved by the Commission's expertise in energy or related sectors of the economy, the lack of business interests in energy, the members themselves of the Commission and the immediate relatives, as has been the case in many developed countries. The discussion in the Parliament of the business and personal qualities of each candidate as a member of the commission reaches the necessary publicity and guarantees that only public interests will be lobbyed in the NCRE. The appointment of members of the commission for a longer term of office of all branches of government would help to minimize the manual management of the members of the commission that won the parliamentary elections. However, it is anticipated that the overall responsibility for regulation in energy will remain with the Cabinet of Ministers. It is he who is referred to as the members of the NCRE and the approval of the regulations. The Commission itself only maintains the development of regulatory procedures and the organization of their implementation. Of course, the Supreme Council will continue to bear its responsibility for ensuring the country's energy security by enacting and monitoring relevant laws. The Supreme Council will also be a guarantor of the publicity of the appointment of release from commission posts, as well as the adoption of the budget, will assume responsibility for financial support for regulatory activities in energy. Local councils also have their own area of responsibility for energy regulation, as they are on the ground responsible for the vitality of the community. Thus, the decisions of the commission falling within the area of responsibility of the local councils will be reviewed and agreed upon. The authors and drafters of the bill on State regulation in Ukraine's energy are well aware that the regulations governing energy activities concern everyone, and have therefore sought to organize a broad discussion at the drafting stage of this bill. We have been able to generate a lively interest from energy professionals, from government officials, simply users. We are confident that, in the process of finalizing the law and submitting it to the Supreme Council for second reading, we will be able to draw up, in fact, national rules for regulating energy activities. The TEC Committee is ready for such work. The Committee hopes that energy users will participate more actively in the preparatory phase of second reading. To this end, the Committee will make public not only all meetings of the working group on the drafting of the law but also plans to hold at least two round tables. The Committee looks forward to constructive cooperation with the deputies of all political forces in Ukraine. We call for such cooperation: to jointly address one of the key issues of Ukraine's energy security, in large measure, the problem of national security. The bill is supported by the Ministry of Professional Affairs, the National Electricity Regulatory Commission and supported by the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council. The authors and the Committee on the Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security request the adoption of the law as a basis for first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u28	Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up. Yavorowski, please, 6 minutes, right, enough? Is it not? Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u29	Vladimir Yavorowski. I can't refuse my colleague Gnatkevich's request to give him his word. Pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u30	Dear Volodymyr Costinovich, your project says that the NCRM can set fixed, marginal prices, tariffs, indexes of their changes and so on. But here I recently returned from Kuznetsovsk, where the atomic station. In Kuznetsovsk, everyone is puzzled by the fact that this commission adopted the Order on December 26, which raised the tariffs for the production of heat energy more than three times. Well, it's about that heat energy that's actually a surplus, a free energy that instead of being in the sky, is heating up Kuznetszowsk. So here's the question: Is it not just the commission's mandate in your bill, as well as some points that would regulate the tariff process itself, its publicity, its openness? Otherwise, NCRE can become a monster of a centralized monopoly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u31	Thank you. That's a very good question, and he's been talking about it for a long time. Indeed, the NCRE is now in large part defining the investment plans of the enterprise, setting the tariffs itself. We have said and said by our law that this function is the Cabinet of Ministers, above all. As the Cabinet of Ministers sees the country's economy as a whole, both industry and electricity producers, both energy suppliers and energy consumers. That is why the powers of the Commission are limited by the fact that it is developing procedures for the implementation of the decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is not a self-sufficient body. It regulates in accordance with regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u32	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u33	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Vladimir Kostinović, in view of the difficult situation that now reigns in the system of energy regulation, the strengthening of the role of the state, the strengthening of the role of the public authorities, I think there is no doubt in anyone in this room. And it's not even about what we're all talking about today, it's not about the spread of housing tariffs. And the problem is what you said at the outset -- the real threat of a crisis and the future possible disaster in the energy system for Ukraine. This should bother us in the session room today. We talked a lot yesterday about the gas transport system. No one said the compressor hasn't changed in 20 years that the pipes are leaky. As I would like to ask you: will your bill to what extent will it enable us to avoid a crisis and a future catastrophe for Ukraine, because it will be far scarier than the discontent of people with tariffs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u34	Thank you. Indeed, the current regulation of electricity, pipeline transport, is in the best interests of the moment. And that's what I said, including in the report. And only the Cabinet of Ministers sees the long-term interests of the country. A long-term interest in investment investments in the maintenance of pipeline transport, the conservation and extraction of all new and new energy supply regions, the conservation and development of electricity. That is why these powers leave the Cabinet of Ministers. I think it is because of him that the activities of the Supreme Council will ensure the strategic interests of national security, which is energy security. Thank you. This law provides.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u35	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u36	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Vladimir Konstantinovich! I think your rather thorough report has indeed convinced the people's deputies that the problem you have raised with your colleagues must be addressed in this way through the adoption of the State Regulation Act on Energy in Ukraine. But I think it is, and you'll probably have to work out very seriously. You didn't say that. But the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council has done a great deal under this law, but somewhere more than a dozen serious comments, in my view, including on the inadequacy of certain provisions and in particular the financing of the activities of the NCRE and its advisory and advisory bodies. I'd like that part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u37	Thank you. The question that the authors and the working group of the Committee have discussed on the Committee itself and it is understandable to us. That is why I said in the report that we invite consumers and a wider range of professionals, including the budget. But most importantly, it also stresses the scientific and expert management that the law can become the foundation of the base. And now, I hope, I'm just calling on all the MPs and the whole community to join this process, because it's everybody's business. Your comments and wishes will certainly be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u38	An oil man.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u39	Dear Volodymyr Costinovich. Today, more than ever, the role and value of tariffs are growing. And surely there is no such family in Ukraine, no village or city where this issue has not been discussed. Your bill, as in the alternative, has questions about subordination of the NCRE. In one case yours is the Cabinet of Ministers, in the other, the Secretariat of the President. In our view, the Block of July Timoshenko, that today is a question of how important it is for the organ of NCRE itself to be more independent. Because the Cabinet of Ministers is still the executive body, and he's certainly more interested in some budget-based decisions, taking into account the state of the economy. But in our view, the NCRE itself must probably be subordinated or formed, the attitude toward formation should have a bearing on the Supreme Council. Don't you think it's an organ?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u40	Thank you. The question was understood and the question was discussed with the authors of the alternative bill. We have realities, we have a parliamentary-presidential republic, and we have executive power in the hands of the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Cabinet of Ministers should prepare proposals for the High Council to discuss the professional readiness of the members of the Commission, not to participate in business. The Cabinet of Ministers is a powerful infrastructure of executive power on the ground. As for our role with you, we have a discussion here. And before we go to Parliament, any member of the commission will understand that he will be considered through the bulge and opposition and the ruling coalition. And there will be the publicity that will ensure. We believe that in this way we do not conflict with the Constitution, we give real conditions for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u41	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the Conciliation Council proposes to consider an alternative project at the same time, because this is one subject of regulation. So I give the floor to the report from this project, Kucherenko Alexi Yuriovich, and I ask that he highlight in his report what the difference between his project and his previous one is and what is the advantage. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u42	Alexy Kucherenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Chief, the honourable ones are present! First of all, I'd like to say a few words about my position as the author of another bill. I wouldn't call it an alternative, and now I'll explain why. On the other hand, to express the position of our political power, which I also have been asked to publish, why we, on the one hand, fully support our colleagues in assessing the importance of adopting a law that would ensure the status of this body and set the parameters of state regulation, and on the other hand, unfortunately, we have another proposal and we will not be able to support the bill of honourable colleague Bronnikov. Regarding the history of this issue, I would like to remind you that in 1999 a group of deputies and I, fortunately, had both Mr. Marmazov and Mr. Kowalk to submit such a bill. Sadly, though, society at that time was not at all ready to consider it by definition. Today, I would like to say that we are united. The first is understanding that such an organ should be. I'd like to point out that my colleague, Boronnikov, in his speech, has given your attention and I don't know if he's talking about it or not, he said that the organ should have special status, it should be special. In Mr. Bronnikov's version, unfortunately, this body is formulated and formed as an executive body. This is a principle, in our view, a position that we will not be able to support, because the executive authority will be in our condition, unfortunately, politicized and unable to implement an independent, fair regulation. The second thing that unites us is the understanding that today both the Supreme Council and the central authorities should have authority to influence tariff policy in the sphere that is being shaped today by local self-government authorities. First of all, it's about housing-communal tariffs such as heat and water supply. And we're also assuming that this topic is not very clear in the bill of honorary colleagues, but we all need to work together on one side, the tendency to reinforce local self-government, on the other hand, the influence of central authority on local and residential tariffs. In the near future, we're going to be looking at other bills by Mr. Suhogo's colleagues, Mrs. Timoshenko, and they show one thing that we all want to do, but we don't conceptually understand how to do it. Third. I would like to say that we all understand that, as a minimum, there should be accountability in this body to the Supreme Council, and even better, it is a direct influence on the formation of this body by the Supreme Council, and it also unites us. And last and most principled. I would like to point out that we all have to understand that, first of all, this body not only has to provide the interests of monopolists. And I would like to point out that, first of all, it should protect consumers' interests, whether it's industrial production or not, like the Illich factory represented today in the Supreme Council, or our population. And it is the establishment of fair rules of the game, from the point of view of consumer protection, that is and should become the main dominant work of this body. In this regard, what do we have to say about Mr. Bronnikov's project? First. Unfortunately, this law, and we are grateful for the professional consistent approach, but it is vulnerable to our view for the following reasons. The first is trying to combine two different things in one law: the first is the statutory law, which is the status of this body, which is trying to determine our colleague, the other is the principles of regulation. We're willing to work together on the principles of regulation, we're willing to do everything we can to make sure that tariff regulation is not on the principles of spending. We're willing to do everything we can to protect the consumer. But we will never agree that it can be done by the executive authority, as prescribed in the law by Mr. Bronnikov. And alternatively, what I want to say is that in the law, the authors of which are: Kucherenko, Kinakh, Zushko, Sivulski, other distinguished national MPs -- we define the special status of the NCRE organ, which is not subordinate to Kabmin and has every reason to be independent. As an example, I would like to cite legislation that regulates antitrust activities. There's the Antitrust Committee Act that we've adopted with you, and there's the Law on Competitive Principles of Economics that regulates State Policy on Competition. As for the other nuances that we are willing to discuss, I would like to point out that regulation is and should not only take place in the tariff area, but also in very important issues such as the right of access to monopolies. And today we are witnessing exactly how by speculating this right of access the dictatorship goes with regard to the lies, to the archer, to the thermal utility companies. This is a fundamental point that should provide a system of state regulation, in our opinion, it is unfortunately not reflected in Mr. Bronnikov's bill. I don't want to say it again and point out the protection of consumer rights, but I want to point out that sometimes one monopoly becomes a consumer of another monopoly. I'm an excellent example, for example, of the monopolies being a consumer of the large NAC monopoly Naftogaz. Oblenergo is a consumer of the large NAK monopoly. “Heatcommunergo” is a consumer of the large NAC monopoly Naftogaz. So we need to regulate the relationship between these monopolies, but first we need to protect the consumer. That is why I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the relevant directives of the European Union are signed agreements under which Ukraine undertakes to create an independent regulatory body. This agreement was signed by the President of Ukraine on December 1, 2005, and there is a clear emphasis that the energy regulator should be independent of the interests of the electricity and gas industries. I want to ask a rhetorical question. How the government, on the one hand, will manage such monopolies as NAK “Naftogaz”, NAK “.” and much of the archergic and polygamy, we see today the NAK “Naftogazu” attempt to carry out the lies and it can also be, we, this is a separate discussion. So this is how the government will govern the monopolies, on the other hand, will regulate. We think that's impossible by definition, and that's what makes this very vulnerable, in our view, Mr. Bronnikov's bill. I would also like to point out that we need to think about something else today. There are two bills on the Minbud site today on regulation in the residential sector. What are we going to do with you? It's a separate housing-communal tariff regulator, or it's into the infrastructure of the NCRE. This is a fundamental issue that needs a conceptual solution. I would like to pay attention to the distinguished representatives of industrial enterprises that have suffered the last time from monopolies and other monopolies of the “Urzlazlaznica”. We need to understand that we need to settle this issue soon. And that's the question. And also in time, there's going to be a question of creating an independent regulator on the railway, so conceptually, we have to figure out what these organs are, how to ensure their independence. That's why I'd like to point out my point of view as the author that these are not alternative bills. Moreover, I would like to point out that the government is currently considering a third bill, it has passed a government committee, I think, Mr. Titenko, who recently led the NCRE, should also say so. And I have a question about whether there's any general concept of what to do in the coalition or in the government. 'Cause I'm on it. Five bills and counting. Four of them are leaving the government and the government coalition. That's why I would ask, as an author, not an alternative, but another bill, number 2424, to support the energy regulator in supporting our bill in the first reading. We're willing to work with our colleagues and continue to work together on a path that no one else will follow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, the question to the reporter who has it? Sign up. Tomenko. Six minutes, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u44	I have a question for the rapporteur. Two bills are very important, they solve the problem very much. And we're all aware, especially in history now with tariff policy, that the institution should be autonomous, independent, that would protect the taxpayer's interest, not the general line, let's say, the government or the president. In this version, as you suggest, I think, take a higher step in protecting this committee from political influences. Because the government is now directly engaged in governance, economics. The President is an institution, and he's actually over the process, and that's why his application to the Supreme Council, I think, is dedependent to the commission. But you didn't think about going along the way of, let's say, a commission formed by the President, by the Supreme Council, and, let's say, from the representatives of the energy industry, so that we have three components, and thus fully guarantee the independence and independence of the decisions of this commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u45	Mr. Mikolo, I am very grateful for the professional question. I mean right away. Ideally, we need to do this, but we need to understand that we need to change the Constitution. There is no other way than to make such an organ like, say, the Supreme Court. Moreover, in all the countries of the world, regulators are called “quasi-judicial, ” i.e. they are almost judicial. And that's why the main goal is to ensure independence. We don't want to, and our principle position for it to form on the axis of government is coalition, because then it becomes Bolshevik. I'm against Bolshevism in this regard. And that's why it seems to us that if we form the President on the axis -- the Supreme Council -- it's going to be more independent. If we solve this question conceptually at the constitutional level, let's discuss, make suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u46	Alexi Yuriovich, I'll take advantage of the possibility that the microphone is here. In other countries, how is the status resolved, which mechanism?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! This is certainly at the point of the question. In those countries where monopolies were privatized or partially privatized, a central independent body was created. I've studied this experience in the United States, I've been for two weeks, and I know how the Federal Commission works, what it is. In England it's an independent body. Other countries, for example, to regulate housing and utility tariffs went down the path of local authorities, but we don't have it today, we see. Maybe five to ten years from now, when local self-government is appropriate, we'll hand over this function, but today we've been reviewing the world's organizations, and we've been discussing our bill, and they're advising us that maximum independence will be given to this body when it's formed by the Supreme Council, along with the President. Then you and I take the initiative to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u48	Thank you. Gnutkevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u49	Alexi Yuriovich. Yuri Gnatkevitch, Yulia Block Timoshenko As a result of the difficult situation of rising prices for heat tariffs in Kuznetsovsk, I repeat to you the questions. Are there clear mechanisms that regulate the commission’s tariff process itself? And, if possible, also pass the word to my colleague Vladimir Oliynik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u50	Alexei Yuriovich! Questions. Oilworks Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, Yulia Block Timoshenko You know what kind of decision we don't make and whatever organ it's always going to be, to some extent, politicized. And that's why, you know, waiting for a decision is totally unpoliticized. But in our view, perhaps the best interests of the Ukrainian people are represented by the members of the Supreme Council who reflect these interests. Would it not be better if this body were formed at the expense of the authority of the Supreme Council and subordinated to it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u51	Dear colleague! I want to re-emphasize and repeat, really, it would be better, but we need to make changes to the Constitution. So in our bill, based on today's Constitution and confirming the need to improve it, we are saying today that this is the model that gives him the most independence possible. In terms of the influence of the Supreme Council, we believe that the Supreme Council should establish an appropriate committee or commission to control and initiate these antitrust investigations, which is, will be the mechanism of our control, and all deputies will participate in this commission. As for the question of the previous colleague. I want to say that there are certain documents that, in due course, have been prepared by the Statecommungospa and the government, respectively, that frameworkally define the principles of tariffs, but not enough. First of all, they define the cost model, so they don't encourage resource conservation. Secondly, we see today, Alexander Alexander Alexander, the honorable Alexander Alexander!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u52	Yes, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u53	draw your attention and our esteemed Head. Look who's not doing regulation today. President of Ukraine. Yesterday you saw his statement by the Antimonopoly Committee, the government, the Supreme Council, the opposition, the local authorities, the Henprosecutor's Office, the Antimonopoly Committee. We must urgently make a conceptual political decision on the establishment of this body. Until then, there will be no tariff or other policy of regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u54	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Discussion. From the Tikhov Committee, Viktor Mikolaiovich wanted to speak. Please. In the meantime, I invite you to look into the situation. And please, if there's a need, even though we'll talk later. Please write down from the factions who would like to comment on this. And then from the deputies outside the faction principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u55	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, honourable deputies. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, introduced by the People's Deputies of Kucherenko, Kinakh, Tsushk, Sivulski, Matvienkovi, Knazević, on October 31st, 2006, was presented to the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. In doing so, the committee was identified as the main drafting of the bill. For the sake of this bill, the committee has communicated with other committees of Parliament, such as the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, as well as the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This communication was related to the fact that, on August 2, 2006, Ukrainian national MPs Bronnikov, Klaviv, Martinenko, Tulup registered the draft Ukrainian Law on National Energy Regulation, registration number 1221, to which the bill, registration number 2424, was essentially an alternative. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion of 15 November 2006, considers it appropriate to reject the Ukrainian National Energy Regulatory Act, No. 2424. A review of the draft Ukrainian Law on Government Regulation, registration number 2424 in the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self-Government was scheduled for January 10, 2007. However, one of the drafters of the bill, who had personally arrived at the meeting of the committee, asked that the matter be postponed. The committee met with the request of a national MP and decided to hold such a consideration at the next meeting of the committee, which was on February 7, 2007. However, on 20 January 2007, just during the inter-sessional period, the President of Ukraine, using his constitutional authority, appealed to the Supreme Council for recognition as urgent both the Ukrainian National Energy Regulation Bill and the Ukrainian National Energy Regulatory Act. Thus, the committee was not able to consider the above-mentioned bills at the previous plenary session of Parliament today. However, the subcommittee has considered this bill 2424 and proposes that it be withdrawn from the plenary session as one that has been rejected by the scientific and expert board and has not been considered on our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u56	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Urbanski has a word. 15 minutes to discuss, Igor Anatolyevich, please. Does Kuzmanka have a word for it? Please, Sergey Kuzmenko is speaking. He's behind him, Freeman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, comparing and evaluating both projects, of course, cannot help but notice that both projects are trying to address the main problem: the problem of determining the NCRE position in the public administration system. For 10 years since the creation of the NCRE, its position with regard to other organs of the State has changed on several occasions. At first, it was an independent non-governmental permanent organ, then a central executive body with special status. However, the change in the Constitution of Ukraine has predetermined the redistribution of the constitutional powers of the main higher institutions of power, in particular, the competence of the President of Ukraine has changed significantly. If the NCRE members had previously appointed the President of Ukraine, these functions were now transferred to the Cabinet of Ministers under the Ukrainian Constitution. That is a fact, it is a tribute established by the Constitution. This fact cannot be excluded from the creation of other regulations, including, above all, laws that must be adopted on the basis of the Constitution. [[Article 8 of the Constitution]] Therefore, in determining the status and place of the NCRE among the organs of the State, it is necessary, first of all, to draw from the space for manoeuvre which the Constitution permits us to do. Of course, all energy sector actors are interested in seeing NCRE as independent, independent of all executive authorities and other regulator authorities. However, the reality of our legal reality is that the powers of the Supreme Council or of the President of Ukraine regarding NCRE are not enshrined in the Constitution and cannot therefore be extended in laws and other regulations. Draft Law 1221 provides some clarity on the status of NCRE as the central authority of the executive branch, article 9. The special status of the NCRE in this draft indicates the arrangements for the harmonization of candidates for the post of members of the NCRE Supreme Council, article 10. I wish to assure you, however, that this order goes beyond the powers of the Supreme Council, as enshrined in the Constitution. As has already been said, the powers of the Supreme Council are determined exclusively by the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the establishment at the legislative level of the appointment of the release of members of the NCRE by submission or in agreement with the Supreme Council may, in my view, only be made subject to changes to the Constitution, which is unlikely. Secondly, the project fully takes into account past errors in the regulation of national energy and is possible for adoption on first reading with further refinement. With regard to Project 2424, and yesterday on the subcommittee, we have, and during the discussion, so many comments by our Scientific and Expert Office on the non-compliance of the Constitution, I no longer say that there is a conflict between legislation, which I believe is acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u58	Freeman has the word. We'll go after Kravchenko. Chechtev instead of Freeman? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u59	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The purpose of the Bill of People's Deputy Bronnikov is to legislate the principles of state regulation in Ukraine's energy sector and to establish the status of the National Energy Regulatory Commission of Ukraine as an independent State executive body. In view of the European Energy Charter ratified by Ukraine and its agreement, the author considers it necessary to reconcile both the Ukrainian laws themselves on natural monopolies, on electricity and to bring them into line with the Charter. Accordingly, the draft State Energy Regulation Act of Ukraine of the People's Deputies of Bronnikov defines the legal principles of state regulation and the principles of the activities of NCRE, the order in which it is constituted as a collegiate body, the function, the mandate, the status of members of a collegiate body. The Kucherenka People's Deputy Project is intended to grant the National Energy Regulatory Commission a new status, a state body and special status under the control of the President of Ukraine. The author also proposes a new approach to the formation of the NCRE, with the head and seven members to be appointed and dismissed from office as President of Ukraine. The following should be noted for this account. NCRE is proposed to give a special status that is contrary to part one of the first article of the Sixth Constitution of Ukraine, in which the above principle is established. Thus a separate status for NCRE cannot be granted by law. The order of appointment of the members of the NCRE, in our opinion, expands the constitutional mandate of the President of Ukraine, which is established by the Constitution of Ukraine. Thus, such order cannot be regulated by law. Some other NCRE powers proposed in the Kucherenka People’s Deputy Project are also challenged. In particular, it is the right to ensure that disputes arise between market participants, paragraph 26 of the fourth draft article. We believe that this is completely contrary to the Constitution, since everyone can appeal to the courts to defend his rights. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes to adopt in the first reading the bill of the National MP Bronnikov. And those rational ones that are in the Bill of People's Deputies, Kucherenka, can already be taken into account in the process of redrafting the second reading of the Bill of People's Deputies, Bronnikov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u60	Thank you. Kravchenko will come after him. You? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u61	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction has always supported the idea of state regulation, and we have always implemented it, trying to prove that without public regulation, even in the natural market that we now have, it is not possible to operate the main points in the country's life. And I am very pleased to say today that the Communist faction will vote in favour of the Bronnnikov bill will support it. And I am glad that we have come to realize today that, without State regulation, we are unable to ensure the normal functioning of the State. Here's the thing. Today, if you look away from the report of the Kucherenko People's Deputies, see what is happening today. The Cabinet of Ministers is almost today a hostage to the legislative framework that we have set with you on tariffs. Today, local authorities have laid down what they wanted in their tariffs, and so today we are landing on the Cabinet of Ministers, what it is not and cannot manage. It is time to end this decentralization. And here it sounded like monopolies. We destroyed Naftogaz, we deconstructed it. [[For example, see Naftogaza]] And the Cabinet of Ministers, as the highest body of the State executive, cannot influence these processes, because its legislation is subject to practically the President. And he was in the President's manual office. You'll see what the railway does today with tariffs and so on. That is, it is today that there cannot be a natural market; it must exist only in the regulatory process of the State. And the State must influence pricing, including electricity. It is a matter of concern to me that, as we move to the parliamentary-presidential Republic, when it is suggested that this vital organ of NCRE be subject to the President, please report to the secretariat of the President. Imagine the situation in which the High Executive Body of the Cabinet of Ministers will work. We therefore categorically urge everyone to vote on Bronnnikov's draft in the first reading. And so we're going to lay the foundation for normal electricity work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u62	Instead of the Widow, Xen Lapin will be speaking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u63	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head! Dear colleagues! In considering these two bills, we can say that the key issue here is the status issue, the special body of the National Commission on Electricity Control. I would like to stress that the principles of state regulation and state regulation laid down in the Bronnikov Bill do not raise any questions; they are modern European principles that are in line with European legislation. The questions are only about how we can ensure what European regulatory standards require of us -- the independence of the government regulator. What is this independence? Why is it necessary? It is necessary to avoid conflicts of interest. Governments, and this is by our Constitution so defined, are political bodies, not just the organs of some economic administration. Governments have their own policies, and they always do. Governments are changing, politics is changing. Why did the world develop the idea of independent regulators? Because an independent professional regulator in the relevant sphere ensures that the economic approach to tariff regulation is stable and objective outside the current government’s policy area, and this is important. Then there will be no question of why tariffs go up three times when the price of gas soars, but only 1.6. Why there are unwarranted decisions, why there are unequal approaches to citizens, and why they change all the time, why our citizens become hostages of tariff policy. First of all, it is because the approach to the formation of these tariffs is constantly shaped on political grounds. What is proposed in Bill 2424? To make a balance of interest, I emphasize, a balance. The appointment of members of the commission is proposed to make the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine – this is primarily a balance. The government may and may have the right to issue normative acts and to administer regulations in this area. But he has no right to regulate this body’s policies by means of human resources, in fact directly, manually. In fact, the guarantee that the body will be really objective and will not allow violations of the rights, constitutional rights of citizens to objective tariffs will be the very fact that the body will be professional, assigned to various branches, balanced. And by making the right decisions, it will be from the economic point of view, pragmatically. And it will ensure the consistency and permanence of such an independent policy of this body. So we call for the support of Bill 2424 as one that responds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u64	One minute, I gave my word instead of Gennady Josephovich, and I realized that he didn't give up his word? Then please go to the rostrum. And Leipzig spoke out of faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u65	Alexandre Alexandrovich, an egg law - abiding MP, was recorded as an MP, not an MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u66	I got it. I explained.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u67	Not from the faction. But when I saw that such high authority as Xenia Leapina, I was ready to give her my word. But now that you're giving me your word again, I'll use it. I want to point out that today, you see, in our own experience, we devoted energy to last morning's meeting, especially its important component of the gas system, and today we are discussing energy-related issues again. This shows that if we didn't want to, we're in the state, even though it's chosen the market progress of the economy. We need to do everything we can today to ensure the independence of the energy sector. If we do not do so, then the monopolies will eat the state first, and then other monopolies will eat them, especially the neighboring states, and then we will have nothing to talk about at all. I don't know, probably most of the people's deputies got this very interesting book yesterday, maybe today about the energy path, not the atomic path of energy development, it's a project developed by experts from different non-governmental organizations, but experts. And that's where they're talking about the need to form an independent energy regulator. Yes, today, most of you won't like Parliament, President Yushchenko won't like it, but that doesn't mean that the President is not responsible for the state of the economy in our country, especially the energy economy. But he has some weights for balance, for counterbalance, we need to create an independent body to finally develop an energy strategy for Ukraine's energy security. I repeat what I said a few times before. We went 15 years to the Russian gas pipe, we don't want any other pipe. Because we're stealing this gas, and we're not counting on it at the same time, and it's definitely stuck to our necks. We need to have our strategy and our colleague Kucherenka's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u68	I'm asking you, let's be careful with the words. Because these are the terms, Hennady Josephovich, you are a diplomat, “we steal”. We don't steal, for example. And whoever steals, let them answer. You can't say that. Because. Please, Knyazevich. The last one speaks, he's been announced, so I have to give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u69	Since our factions have just expressed our position, it is much easier for me to speak. I just want to continue the logic of Kseniya Liapina, who said that when the law is passed by Mr. Kucherenko, we can at last get a little bit closer to the standards that exist in Europe and the world, when an independent body regulates it, sets tariffs regardless of the impact that the executive authority has on it. And that bill, which Mr. Bronnikov has just presented, actually strengthens this body, because it is actually appointed by the members of this body, not even by the Cabinet of Ministers, but by the Prime Minister, one-person Prime Minister, as the head of executive power, will deal with the issue of regulatory policy in the field of energy. At the same time, respected colleagues, we already have practices from all over the government when NCRE’s leaders changed twice. For the first time, a former assistant to Mr. Clovis was appointed, and now a former co-worker was appointed to the concert “Standsticker”. I understand it's going to be such a clan, you know, an entrepreneurial organization, not an independent government body. Maybe we should finally come to our senses and think about what we want to join the WTO, what we need to sign a treaty with the EU, and first of all to ensure the energy security of our own state as a guarantee of Ukraine's independence? Now, I think that the most liberal approach in this bill is in the rotation of every member of the NCRE who will be able to be the head of this commission. But a little bit of arithmetic is wrong, because it's suggested that seven members of the commission be appointed for six years, and somehow each of them can be the head of the commission. The bill must have been written in a hurry. All the similarities of the two bills, they have one conceptual difference. It is proposed to create, at last, an independent body that, with the help of the President and the Supreme Council, can balance state policy in the field of electricity. And here, you know, the argument that he can only be controlled by the President is completely unfounded, because the second article of this bill says that he is accountable to the Supreme Council. Here someone said that the NAK “Naftogaz of Ukraine” was destroyed. So it was destroyed because we still don't have an independent body in electricity in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u70	Thank you. Deputies! We have concluded our discussion of the matter. In the meantime, I think that everyone has realized how important this document is, because here we define the functions of the state and its authorities in such an extremely important economic and social sector as regulation of the electricity market, pricing and tariffs and so on. And interestingly enough, it really wasn't here, said Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, reporting that this is not an alternative project to him, because it's actually just the approach to status stuff. And the observations that this law has received, just like the law of the Bronnikov MP, refer to the fact that the Constitution does not clearly spell out, rather, the formula that does not apply to the body that deals with regulation. However, article 92 of the Constitution stipulates that only Ukrainian laws deal with issues, the principles of the use of natural resources, and the organization and operation of energy systems. And paragraph 8: “Legal principles and guarantees of entrepreneurship, competition rules and antitrust rules. And this is also, by the way, antimonopoly regulation. In addition, we have provided a special status for the Supreme Council Supervisory Commission on Privatisation in the "Proof of the Holding Fund" Act and in the "On Committees of the Supreme Council" Act. We can do the same in this respect so that Parliament can monitor the work of such a commission. However, I think that before the second reading, the drafters will find, firstly, common approaches, and secondly, there will be a formula that would remove this contradiction, which was discussed here in the session room regarding the status of this controlling and regulating body. I think it's fundamentally important and convinced, it's not going to have to turn to the Constitution, etc., but it's going to have to provide for procedures that eliminate misunderstandings or tensions in this respect. And given that it's not an alternative bill, it's just that they have different approaches to one part of the status of the commission, I'm putting the vote in order for them to come. Identify yourself. Either way, we need to take one of the bills and work on it, preparing for the second reading. I'm voting on the draft National Energy Regulation Act of Ukraine, which was written by Bronnikov. Registration number 1221. [[11:49:26]] For 247 The law was adopted in the first reading. And by the rule laid down in the Rules, I do not place the second law on the vote, considering that all useful, and there really is a vast majority of the useful proposals, should be taken into account in the second reading. The Conciliation Board, proposing a list of issues that you know about today, suggests those that are scheduled for today’s session as those that can be considered by the simplified procedure. But it can only be done with your consent. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal to consider the following issues under reduced procedure. Please. [[11:50:39]] For 246 Decision taken. The first law, more faithfully, the draft Ordinance on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Association of Two Banks has not yet been considered by the Committee. So I'm going to take it off your hands, and we're going to look at it in fact tomorrow. There's no objection. A draft Law amending article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is under consideration. Mikola Jakovitch Sidorenko will report. Two minutes, please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u71	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the leadership of the Supreme Council, the entire House of Deputies of today's office, for paying constant attention to the problems of state land policy. I am confident that the third session of the Supreme Council will be even more effective in shaping the legislative tree of Ukraine. With a view to ensuring the self-sufficiency of rural, rural councils of the people's deputies in accordance with the current legislation at that time, Ukraine's legislation in the 1980s and 1990s was developed and approved by the designated councils of the people's deputies in order to establish the territories and establish the boundaries of all rural and rural councils. At the same time, the boundaries of the settlements, villages, and villages that form part of rural, rural councils are not fully established. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the administration system of Ukraine currently consists of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, districts, districts, cities, urban areas, villages and villages. The administrative and territorial division of Ukraine on January 1st of this year is as follows: a village of 28,541, a village of 885, a city of 4,582, a district of 118, a district of 490. The decision to establish and change the boundaries of each administrative and territorial entity, according to article 174 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, is taken by the relevant authorities, regions and cities - the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district, Kiev or Sevastopol City Councils; the village, the village - the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district of Kyivska, or the Sevastopol City Council for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u72	Let me finish. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u73	Thank you. On January 1st, 36% of the land authorities are operationally informed. We have developed and passed the Amendment Act to Article 176, the main provisions of the draft act relate to the amendment of Article 176 of the Code of Land to the certification of the boundaries of administrative and territorial entities. In fact, a new edition of article 176 of the Codex is proposed. The proposed changes to the part, the current article provides a list of the required information to be submitted to the State act within the scope of the administrative and territorial elements added to it, is determined by the body that signs the document and the body that approves its form. The implementation of the Law does not require any additional expense. The adoption of the Law will contribute to improving the efficiency of State land management and to ensuring the legal rights of territorial communities to land.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u74	Thank you, thank you, please sit down, Mikola Yakovic. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u76	Please, who wants to say "yes" and who "against"? Sign up. Four men. And, committee, before that, the committee will give its opinion. Please. Now, just a minute. Bevanzenko Valerij Fedorovich, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u77	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, honored invitees! The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, at its meeting on 29 November 2006, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 176 of the Ukrainian Code of Land (as regards the certification of territorial boundaries, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, proposing to identify the information that is included in the State Act at the borders of the administrative and territorial entities, the documents added to it and the order of signature and the issuing of the State Act. In general, in support of the bill, the committee considers it appropriate to determine the content of a State act when a state act is adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, rather than to refer it directly to the Ukrainian Land Code. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that the draft law be based on the results of the first reading. The adoption of the bill is also supported by the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government and the Committee on Legal Policy. In view of the need for further work on the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u78	Thank you, sit down, please. Karpuk is handing over to Klukkowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u79	Dear Mr. Head, dear fellows! Our faction will support this bill in the first reading, since it is really aimed at solving the problems that our committee has been fighting long enough, yet the lack of a proper legislative base each time is difficult. Before this bill, we have the only comment that applies to the last rule that is there. We don't quite understand why executive power should take the form of an act of legislative authority, because the left hand side of decisions will be taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I think we need to adhere to the constitutional principle of power-sharing and give this right to establish the form of an act in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. However, I would like to draw attention to the broader range of problems involved. Alexander Alexandrovich, I don't think it's normal that we have the issue of territorial administration under the overall heading “Earth Resources”. There's land, I don't think there's any land around here. And so this means that it is time for the Supreme Council to seriously address the problems of regulatory regulation of the territorial system. Otherwise we won't know what boundaries we're going to be issuing acts about, and even more of these problems are going to be on district councils that are all local governments. It seems to me that these issues should be made the highest priority for the Supreme Council. We ask you to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u80	Yavorowski. Who? Lukianchuku gives his word. Please. I want him out of the place. Please step out of place. He's a supporter, too. And the Bulba is against it, yes. He'll take the word for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u81	Thank you, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, this bill is exactly the case where there is no political subtext. The amendment to article 176 of the Code of Land is made with the aim of detailing the rules on the State act within the scope of the administrative and territorial entities. The project lists information that should contain state acts, the order of its issuance. Our faction agrees that the adoption of the bill will really help to improve the efficiency of national land relations regulation and to ensure the rights of territorial communities to land. I want to pay attention to this moment. The bill conveys to the Cabinet of Ministers the mandate of the Supreme Council to establish a form of State act within the administrative and territorial boundaries. And the thing is, it's an absolutely insurmountable parliamentary function. It is not for Parliament to design a state act and determine how it will be signed. The transfer of these powers to the executive is totally acceptable. I emphasize that the bill does not in any way apply to the Supreme Council's own right to establish and change the boundaries of the areas and cities. It only applies to the procedure for fixing these decisions. Thus, the bill is essentially technical. There are no significant points to him in principle. But a few changes to the editorial character will have to be made before the second reading. I propose that the bill be approved on the basis of a second reading, taking into account the proposals made by the legislators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u82	Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u83	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I support the previous speaker as to whether it doesn't matter that the form of the act will be established by the Cabinet of Ministers, or executive authority. It is important that the content of the act is defined by the Supreme Council and that there is a detail that should be provided for in this act. It is both appropriate and necessary. But I have some doubts about the possibility of implementing this law from the term proposed. Why I don't think it's going to be possible to do that even though, as the main reporter has reported, 36 percent of the population is already bordered and so on, I don't know how to do that, because in the end, for today, it's said in paragraph three that a cadastral plan and a topographic map are added to the state act. So let me tell you, we don't have a 1.25th map of topography in Ukraine right now. What's more, we don't have the Land cadastre. I believe that, in our first reading of the support for this bill, we should also anticipate the acceleration of the adoption of the Land Cadastre Act and the mandatory adoption of the Law on the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, which will be provided for in each State, so that one of its tasks is to map the territory of the country, i.e. to produce, to compile topographic maps that are necessary to provide.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u84	Thank you. The thought does not seem to raise objections. However, the Land Cadastre Assessment Act is being prepared for consideration and will be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council in the near future. All expressed the thought that the law should be adopted in the first reading. And that's why I'm putting this proposal to the vote, hoping for your support. [[12:03:26]] For the 420. Thank you. The break is announced for half an hour by 12.30 p.m. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. A draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on organs and services for minors and special institutions is under consideration. Registration No. 257. Reported by Svetlana’s Deputy Minister for Family, Youth and Sports, Valentinovna Tolstouchov. Prepare Eugene Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The adoption of the bill is due to the adoption of very important legislation in the last year that regulates the social protection of children. This is, first of all, the Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions and the social protection of orphans children, very significant changes to the Family Code. The adoption of the Law will allow us, today, to change, to rename the ministry in behalf of minors as a child’s protection service. Change the name of the criminal police in juvenile affairs to the criminal police of internal affairs, child service. Expand significantly the functions, mandate and change the functions of the service in the affairs of minors from the control of the social protection service. Strengthen the authority for adoption, care, and custody of children. Distribute functions between child services and the criminal police on child prevention issues in the child’s environment. Registration and counting of all children in Ukraine from 0 to 18 years of age: children who are in difficult circumstances, children who are adopted, children who are transferred to the family arrangement. To empower the child service today, to create and develop a network of institutions primarily for orphans, children deprived of parental care. This Law also provides for changes to the Labour Code, since the juvenile inspections have been abolished since 1995, and these functions have been performed by the service of minors today. Therefore, by changing the name of the service in matters involving minors in the field of children, these powers should be transferred to the new ministry. And so the adoption of this bill will allow for the completion of organizational and functional reform of the Minors Service, now the Child Protection Service, which will address all issues of child welfare between 0 and 18 years of age, which will be in line with the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Ukraine. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u87	Thank you. Please sit down, Svetlana Valentinovna. Head of the Family, Youth Policy and Sports Committee, Mikola Tomenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u88	My fellow Members, I represent here a solid position not only by the committee and the ministries, but repeatedly debated over this bill. It's about what we should bring into line with current legislation in this area with real life and with the challenges that today are in this delicate and extremely important matter. It has happened that by laying the foundation for the protection of the rights of the child, we continue to live under old legislation, where militia terminology has moved into the system of activities of those institutions that care for children and an average statistical person, hearing the Service in the affairs of minors, is perceived as an organ that rather creates problems for children than protects them. So in a conceptual sense, you have to say, of course, that the whole institution from the Ministry to the appropriate departments to the district, these are institutions that protect children's rights. Second of all, we're standardizing a whole series of new institutions that have started to work more or less successfully, but, nevertheless, they're not covered by current legislation, particularly: Socio-rehabilitation center "Children's Town", there's the Centre for Child Welfare Rehabilitation and all that. So at the local level, we've created problems by starting experiments in a civilized approach to protecting children, orphans, but without legislation as in a financial, organizational way, we're doing it. And third, it's a very important thing. The law clearly prescribes real powers in the Ministry of Family Affairs and young people in the protection of children’s rights in order for them to feel confident and know that they have full responsibility for the whole system, for the vertical authority of the matter. Therefore, our committee, after discussing this issue, supports the Ministry and asks to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u89	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Yes, anyone who wants to uphold the law is pressing the green button against the red button. Yes, please, Oliynik, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Yeah, huh? Smoker, please, microphone from the spot. Please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u90	Vladimir Kureny, Yulia Block Timoshenko Of course, we fully support this bill and the only thing to note is that, in my opinion, it is not yet over, with the adoption of this bill, that the reform of the child rights service system and the work with children in general does not end. We have a few more bills planned. But this is a very important bill that provides organizational clarification. And I think we should vote today. And my suggestion that there is so much, in my opinion, there is no politics here and it's clear that we can vote not only in the first reading but also in the whole of this law. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u91	Katerina Lewchenko, please. The rich guy's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u92	Dear Chairman, distinguished MPs! I'm speaking from the faction “Our Ukraine” and I want to say that the faction supports the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on matters concerning services for minors and special institutions for minors. It is a perfectly legitimate step in reforming not only the public authorities but also the entire state policy on the protection of children's rights in Ukraine, which was initiated by the President, supported by state, public, international organizations and in which the services of minors are important. As has already been pointed out here, it changes the conceptual principles of politics, because the change in the name of the Service for Minors to the Children's Service immediately transfers us from the penal functions to the exercise of powers in accordance with the Alexandre Alexandrovich Convention on the Rights of the Child, which is directly based on this bill and in that plan of action that we will be taking with you in a few days. But in support of the content of this bill, I think it contains some editorial inaccuracies, which point to a perfectly legitimate way this time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, which needs to be taken into account and worked for the second reading. So I urge everyone to support it in the first reading and work very quickly so that it can be accepted as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u93	Please, Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u94	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Deputies! Today, when we discuss this bill, we should point out that the task of the authors is to change the concept of the Service in the matter of minors to the concept of the Service in matters of children, but to preserve the basic content of previous laws of Ukraine. Time has changed, and today we are pragmatically, completely, more confidently moving forward. At least the ideologies of the Child Service should be broader, deeper, and not crammed into a bureaucratic document. There are many claims and observations about this document, but in the absence of time, I will not stop there. I would just like to say that we need to learn from our own mistakes, because the traditional way to do it is to increase the state, increase the budget for these services, redistribute the function, we will never get to have a Ukrainian model for future development. I propose that in the first reading, and in preparing for the second reading, you make changes that relate to defining the content and direction of prevention of negative phenomena in the child's environment. Because if we don't change bureaucratic approaches, if we don't change the form and methods of working with orphans, with children raised in special institutions, and we're going to think more about just officials and officials and their working conditions, we're going to get a much bigger counter than the one that happened before New Year's Eve at the Berežana boarding school, where a group of educators protesting against the school director's ban on doing New Year's work at school have tried to burn the Ukrainian national flag. As a result, we today need to make the real changes that this environment needs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We'll vote. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on the Bodies and Services of Minors and Special Institutions for Minors. Registration number 257. Please support everyone. [[12:42:08]] For 405 Thank you. Mikola Volodymyrovich, better than children for Ukraine. Maybe we'll take it as a law? Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, next thing I know, I've been listening to our colleagues from the Socialist Party and our Ukraine. I'm well aware of the findings of the Science and Technology Administration, and they're saying that according to the text of the law, we need to clarify all the names to fit the central executive authorities, which absolutely automatically our lawyers are doing. And it's about one inaccuracies in the definition of parents or adoptionists. Everything about forms, methods, everything else, it's not defined by this law, it's already an activity practice, so we don't have warnings on the committee and we're ready, I think, to get the system started, to vote on the whole of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u97	I don't think anyone's going after the kids. I'm willing to vote on the adoption of the law as a whole. Vote. [[12:43:36]] For 379 The law is passed. Let's welcome the deputy minister with a debut. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on transparency of property relations with regard to the media, registration number 2555, is under consideration. It's a government bill. Reported by Justice Minister Alexander Volodymyrovich Lavrinovich. Get ready for Chewchenka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u98	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law aims to provide a normative guarantee of the transparency of property relations with regard to the media, which is ultimately defined for us and the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, except for those unconditional intentions that are in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, it is proposed that three laws of Ukraine should be amended to provide, inter alia, for the transparency of information on founders, owners, persons who may exercise control over them, which must be conducive to free access to information about the activities of the media and to prevent them from being monopolized in one hand. With a view to achieving this openness, we propose to amend the Law on Printed Media, Television and Radio, Information Agencies, and the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Radio. In particular, the bill envisages the implementation by the authorities of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, in accordance with its authority to monitor the compliance of subjects with printed media legislation on the protection of economic competition and against unfair competition, with a view to ensuring the right of the public to own information about persons who actually control the audiovisual media, the bill proposes to prohibit the creation and operation of radio organizations, founders, or owners of non-residents registered in offshore zones. And the creation and operation of television organizations, whose statutory funds make up more than 35% of foreign investments. In addition, the bill proposes to introduce legal persons with a view to obtaining a licence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u99	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u100	Information about the founder, owner of the organization, and connected persons It is also suggested that we rely on the organization’s obligation to report on the results of activities over the year, including changes in the composition of the founders, changes in the management of the organization, and sources of funding for the organization. At the same time, with a view to establishing a mechanism for implementing the provisions of the bill, it is proposed that the National Council of Ukraine be granted television and radio broadcasting to oversee compliance with the requirements for the composition of founders of radio organizations. I would like to support this bill in the first reading, in order to clarify the individual standards, in line with the previous work that has already been done with the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u101	Thank you. Please, Andrew Shevchenko is head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u102	Good health, fellow believers! When the committee considers such laws, we are guided by one criterion, see if this law can work on a successful media market. For us, this means freedom of speech, high professional standards, and fair competition. If you look at the philosophy of this Law under these criteria, it seems to me perfectly logical that we should support the movement in this direction. At the same time, I must agree that the bill needs to be finalized at the stage of the second reading. It's raw at this point because there's no systemic solution. Well, for example, the government is now proposing to ban offshoring from being the founders of radio organizations, but nothing prevents offshoring from being founders of level two, third, fourth level as it is now. Or another example, we're talking about this bill banning foreigners from owning more than 35 percent of y. I think we're working on this bill with the Ministry of Justice. And I know that there are proposals from deputies from different factions. But in general, I encourage the room to support the movement in this direction, because the Ukrainian viewer, whether the listener or the reader, should know who is responsible and who is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u103	Thank you. Will We Discuss? Please sign up, two for, two against. Drought is maintained. Yes, please, Tomenko is "for". Prepare Bogchuku, also “for”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u104	Dear colleagues! It's a bill that we've started to discuss and that we've been working on before. And it's very good that the experts at the Ministry of Justice took this step, because we were unable to get into those mechanisms that allowed us to bring the responsibilities of founders and media to the level of public perception. If you go to any European country, you buy a newspaper there, and you read on the front page: the founder or the founder of a newspaper like that. You know exactly that this person is completely responsible, he's funding this newspaper. And in case of serious problems, when there's false information in the newspaper, there's some sort of order stuff, you know the same thing as who's responsible for this publication. It's not just a journalist who was confused about writing or writing under a pseudonym, but it's an appropriate media with a real owner. What is more, it is common in the world to be proud of what are businessmen who have created a popular channel or a popular newspaper. Unfortunately, we have a sad experience, and today we're trying to get to the third or fourth level of the offshore campaign that is the founder of this media. I had an accident 10 years ago to have trouble with the newspaper Kiev News, where now, I understand, some owners have changed. I found two owners, they were residents of the British Virgin Islands, and they had a complete control package of the Kiev News. We have other precedents when the press writes. For example, we are popular in this session hall with the newspaper “2000”, owned by the media, a Canadian citizen. So I'm absolutely convinced that we should very clearly find owners in the media, make them responsible, and realize that these people have full responsibility for information like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u105	Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u106	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Today, this bill is clearly needed. But there are also many inaccuracies here today. If taken earlier, it was difficult to find a real founder, since his data was not always enough, we are already bending the stick around here somewhere and demanding that the data be set to the fifth knee. I quote from the law: “The founders, cofounders and associates, legal and natural persons who exercise control over the founders, cofounders of printed media, and legal persons under whom the founder exercises appropriate control. The following members of the family are also considered to be related: husband, wife, children, father, stepmother, stepfather, stepfather, and related to which they control the print media.” I am concerned about what it means to be “associated with them”. One thing is, if there was an accident, the owner of a large newspaper died and his inheritance was to be shared among himself. Yeah, that's fine. But take the other side. On the other hand, when the founder of the edition happens quite often, offended characters of the publications present claims of hundreds of thousands, millions of dollars of honor and dignity, for damaging the authority of a legal organization. And in such cases, the founder usually disappears and begins looking for the fifth knee, looking for grandparents, grandmothers, children, stepparents, stepmothers, and so on, who have no idea that their passport could be the founder of a newspaper or any other newspaper. Here we go today. That's why I think it's necessary to work on this and to give you just your corporate rights in business, it should be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u107	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined I am voting on the proposal for adoption on the basis of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to ensure transparency of property relations with regard to the media. Registration number 2555. Please vote. [[12:54:15]] For 411 The Law was adopted in the first reading. I ask the committee to prepare him quickly for his second reading. A summary of the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine on the implementation of contractual conditions on a non-cash basis between the parties to the contract is being considered by means of the payment of the cash into the deposit of the notary office. Registration number 1151. Author of the Bill Yuri Anatoliyovich Artemenko. Please prepare Tarasov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u108	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Bill 1151, amending certain Ukrainian law on the implementation of non-cash settlement terms between the parties to the contract by making a cash deposit to the notary office, is made with a view to preventing fraud in the course of contractual non-cash settlement. Today, there is no legislation, there are no guarantee mechanisms for contractual terms to be met on a cash-free basis, both for the buyer and for the contractor. An agreement between the parties is made, as you know, on terms of prior payment of goods or services. And in such a case, the payer is simply not guaranteed from unfair conduct by the supplier, the performer, that is, not guaranteed from the supply of goods or services. If a contract is concluded after payment, the supplier, the contractor, or the contractor may be affected by the payer’s supply of goods, goods, or services. In order to avoid such situations, the draft law proposes to provide a mediocre and, rather, the guarantor's function is to fulfil the terms of the notary's contract, which has notarized the contract. The introduction of this law will certainly be welcomed in the community, for the changes proposed make it possible for the two parties who make the treaty to have a mediator in the person of the notary who guarantees the fulfilment of the terms of the treaty by both parties. A mechanism that completely excludes the loss of money for payers or the failure to pay is also useful and necessary. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, thanks to such a mechanism, the parties to the treaty will be obliged to indicate the actual amount at which the sale is made, and it will be the sum of taxes and compulsory payments, i.e. additional revenue to the budget. The initiators of the project were both notaries and buyers themselves, who applied for such services. You are presented with a re-edited project. So today, the Science and Experimental Authority is proposing to adopt the bill in the first reading. The Committee on Legal Policy had this idea almost, but there was one point, and we're going to change it between the first and the second readings. It's just a few words. Please support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u109	Thank you. Please, head of the Committee on Legal Policy, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting, the Committee on Legal Policy considered the draft law of Ukraine amending certain legislative acts, the laws of Ukraine on the implementation of contractual terms for the non-cash settlement between the parties to the treaty, by making a monetary contribution to the notary office. The purpose of the bill is to amend the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Notaryate Act of Ukraine. By fully sharing what National MP Artemenko said, but I must say the following, on the committee we have considered this issue carefully and there are certain differences that today cannot allow this law to be accepted as law. The point is, there are two shades: Nuance first. There are differences between those who determine the return of funds to the person who has set them up – that's the first. And the second one is out of bounds. But that's not the point. The main thing is that our committee today has a bill that is being prepared by our deputies -- a big, real, new notary bill. So this bill is proposed by the committee to return the initiator to work on it, because this can be done in a revised new notary bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u111	Thank you. Let's talk, please sign up. Please sign up the future head of the security service. Look at the man’s influence! Who's the faction then? Santa Claus? Please turn on the microphone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, the faction “Our Ukraine” supports the adoption in the first reading, I stress this law, because it reproduces the European practice when notarial offices in the system of guaranteeing mutual settlement between the parties to the treaty. By their consent, I emphasize this. So the notary enters into these relationships not only when it is determined, but when the war takes on such a service. All that is needed today is that all legal measures designed to strengthen the guarantees of compliance should be maintained, as this contributes to the establishment of a proper legal order in economic relations. More naturally, it's a new institution, it's not typical, because not so long ago we had just a state notary, it's private now. But this does not mean that we should not use it in a system of appropriate economic calculations, including by expanding the proper authorization of notaries. Once again, I stress that this is a European practice, that the new draft of the Notariat Act does not prevent us from at least adopting it in the first reading, and that Parliament will make a decision on how to act better. If matters with the new law go well, then, indeed, it can be counted as part of this law, if the matter stops, at least the situation will be removed. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u113	Thank you. I saved 30 minutes. Please turn on the microphone, minute 1. 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u114	I thank Mikola Onichtuk for his support. Once again, what I'm talking about, there's no objection from the Committee on Legal Policy, there's just an ideology that the committee wants to prepare a big law on Notariat when it's unknown. Let us adopt this law and it will come out in the first reading, and if a new Act on Notariat is prepared by then, please, there are no objections, no profiles, I ask my colleagues from other factions to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u115	Thank you. Let's be clear. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law on Amendments to certain laws of Ukraine concerning the implementation of contractual conditions on a non-cash basis between the parties to the treaty by making a cash deposit to the notary office, registration number 1151. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:02:50]] For 122 Not supported. The proposal was to send the draft to the author for further work. Please support this proposal. For processing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[13:03:14]] For-146 Also not supported. Dear colleagues, the law on notary was mentioned here. He said he wouldn't be here soon. A bill from the Cabinet of Ministers on notariat has arrived. About the notary. So I think the committee should consider it in the near future, and so I would like to ask the committee with this proposal to take the initiative into account when preparing the basic law. We're looking at the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Court of Justice Act, registration number 2485. [[on parliamentary control]] Yuri Romanovich Miroshnichenko Please. Get ready for Mikoli Zakovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u116	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. The purpose of the Act is to bring into conformity with the Constitution of part two of article 76 of the Sudokustide Act and to harmonize approaches when the quotas of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are filled in by college bodies in the system of sudour of Ukraine. I emphasize, it's a technical law. According to the Court of Justice Act, the Ukrainian system has a Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges, consisting of 13 members who have a higher legal education. Seven judges elected to the panel by the Ukrainian judges’ assembly, two persons appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, one from the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, are part of the second article of article 76 of the law, two from the President of Ukraine, one from the Authorized Supreme Council of Human Rights and one from the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Thus, the right of the Supreme Council to appoint two representatives within the framework of the parliamentary control function, according to article 85, part 1, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, and this right is limited to the above mentioned bodies by the fact that such a representative cannot be Ukraine’s national deputy. At the same time, today the Supreme Council may be represented by three Ukrainian national deputies in an body such as the High Council of Justice, which performs similar commissions, functions and tasks at a different level. In particular, it provides for the formation of a judicial corps, disciplines judges, and complaints about the decision to bring judges to justice, and so forth. It should be noted that the membership of Ukraine’s national deputies in the relevant bodies is not an interference of the legislative authority with judicial activity, since it is in line with part two of article 1 of the Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u117	Yuri Romanovich, you're off three words, and you say three minutes and you haven't said anything yet. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u118	I would like to conclude my statement by stressing that this is a technical law, a law that balances the rights of the Supreme Council and other subjects such as the President of Ukraine, who has the right to delegate two of his representatives to that body, and there are no restrictions on the deputies of the Supreme Council, that is, he can present the deputies according to his quota, the Authorized of Human Rights can present.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u119	Thank you. You're already repeating what you started. Thank you. And I'm making a point. It's not technical, it's political law. I don't want the national MPs to be turned into technical figures. A member of the Justice Committee, Zamkovenko Mikola Ivanovich, will report. Please, Mikolo Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u120	Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on 15 November 2006 the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice, which was introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Miroshnichenko, and registered at 2485. You just listened to the reporter who talked about it. The bill provides for the deletion of the words “of the number of persons who are not Ukrainian national deputies” from part two of article 76 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudokus of Ukraine. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the matter should be included in the agenda, as well as that it should adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole as a law. What I want to say is that there is a conclusion from the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of 10.11.2006, as a result of the first reading, the bill is proposed to be rejected. In addition, there is a conclusion and a letter from the Committee on Legal Policy recommending that the law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u121	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to say two in favour, two in favor, and then we write it down. That's the interest in promotions. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u122	Dear colleagues, I don't know if there are any Ukrainian national deputies in this room who have been elected or who have not once encountered the complaints of our electorate to a court-martial that has filled the corridors of one of the branches of power of our Ukraine. Or have any of you ever faced a severe violation of property rights not only by a person but by the same court? Isn't that why there's raiding in Ukraine as a phenomenon that we're dealing corrupt courts? I've often had to communicate with the judges of the famous Cave Court who could make such a decision: the commission in this warehouse to meet again and determine the winner of the competition by such a company. [[The commission was four years ago.]] It's a court order. From this commission, about which eight people are said to have died a long time ago. Such things take place in Ukraine because we are with you, Your Honor, without control. Please tell us what our influences are. There is a decision of the Constitutional Court, which clearly states that we have no right not to intervene, we cannot write to the judges the right decision or the wrong decision. A real scheme is proposed. We have to support it because our complaints to the profile committee, unfortunately, we don't get answers from the profile committee, no one from our complaints, they're not our complaints, they're our people's complaints, they're the ones we're complaining about because they're on the judges' board and they're on the qualified committee. Why can't we now make a decision to include the Ukrainian National Deputies in the High Qualifications Commission of Judges? Of course, this bill I propose to adopt in the first reading. In the second reading, it is necessary to write down the rule that half of Ukraine’s national deputies should be made up of opposition. Then we'll talk about adopting a normal bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u123	Peter Cibenko, please, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u124	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The Communist faction worked hard on the bill, weighed the arguments “for” and “against” and resorted to supporting the bill. In doing so, we have come from the fact that you and I are in a phase of transition from the Presidential Parliamentary to the Parliamentary Presidential Republic, and then the importance of the Supreme Council, its role in society in these areas of activity should increase. And it's logical that this bill is going to develop this idea. The second thing I'd like to say. There is a de facto representation from the Supreme Council in the act on the judiciary of Ukraine. The Supreme Council should be represented, for example, by two persons in this body. So representation is, but a reservation has been made that these should be non-members of the national deputies of Ukraine. I still think that's a little bit of a constraint, because beyond, as it were, the quotas of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are put out by the people's deputies. So I think that this document, this bill should be supported, and in the process of preparing for second reading, make those observations and those adjustments that the MPs will consider necessary. The only idea now was to present the majority and the opposition. But it's hard for me to imagine what that would be like for two people to be represented by the Supreme Council in this oran. I mean, I don't think this has to be the norm of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u125	Please, Bulba is passing it on to Barani. Prepare Bogashev. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists. I would like to express my view that the Law in question cannot be adopted and given appropriate arguments. I would like to remind lawyers that power in Ukraine is divided into legislative, executive, and judicial. And when the legislators, or parliamentarians, participate in the relevant committees of review, let's say, the same courts, or there, for example, the legal institutions, their actions, their employees, that will be involved in the activities of the legislative branch of power. And then let's put it bluntly, as it happens, so that part of the parliamentarians, those lawyers who wanted to be in the control bodies that involved the courts and other legal institutions. Those who have left banking institutions are trying to control energy banks through supervisory boards, trying to control different NCROs and so on. Tell me, please, it's something similar already, we don't have these different control organs to write between all the deputies anymore. In my view, it would be very appropriate for us to write in the Law that we should not just, for example, accept judges in solving those or other matters if we recorded that there could be political parties there. It's, let's say, those social organizations that, by the way, professional, social organizations, then we'd have avoided circular engagement. And, indeed, if these were political parties there would be representatives of both opposition parties and those parties that are in power. So to my profound belief that this Law cannot be adopted in this way, you can probably agree that it should be re-readed and taken into account, written in a way that would serve, indeed, the business, not the corporate rights of individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u127	Yuri Klukkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u128	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. I am deeply grateful to my colleague Baranowski, who finally reminded here at the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the constitutional principle of power-sharing. I would like to ask you to reflect on the name of the body, the "Qualification Commission of Judges". Not MPs, not parties, not politicians, but judges. It's a judicial authority, not a legislative or non-executive body. So I'm very much asking you not to try everywhere to put in the legislative power and not to monopolize these things by the Supreme Council. Next thesis. Would you please tell me, and those deputies that someone wants to put on a qualified panel of judges, then right here in the hall, will they vote for their own proposals? Is this the principle of equal treatment of deputies? The thesis sounded very good. Well, some say let's give one to the opposition, the other to the coalition. The other one says, but no, you don't have to, let's get both of them out of the coalition. Isn't it beautiful? Of course, that is what we are talking about. But now there is another principle that the reporter spoke out of his mouth. Yes, the Supreme Council gives it away, and so does the President, but the President doesn't give himself. That is why the Supreme Council should not give its members. And this is a principled approach, this is really supposed to be professionals, not politicians. And I support the observation Adam Ivanovich made about this. So once again, I want to emphasize that the Constitution should ensure the principles of deterrence and contradictions between branches of power, but it should not allow the substitution of one authority by another to which the bill is directed. I don't see what to do in a bill that proposes to exclude a few words from an existing text. It seems to me that it should be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u129	Yes, another faction insists on expressing its opinion. This insistence also confirms the leadership of factions. Baby, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u130	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Nor will our faction vote in favour of this bill, considering the following. As experts of the Supreme Council have rightly pointed out, the formation of a judicial corps is one of the tasks of qualified judges. And it would seem strange if the members of the Supreme Council were to be members of the Qualified Commissions, to evaluate the judges, and then how the members of the legislature decided here whether to be judges or not. So you have to divide these things. And we believe that this bill cannot be supported. Because it makes it difficult to apply domestic legislation. And the reference to the question that there are members of the High Council of Justice is whether or not there should be members of the High Council of Justice. The people chose us here to take care of people’s interests, not to jump on oversight bodies, councils, and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u131	I am voting on the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Sudokustra of Ukraine. Registration number 2485. [[13:19:25]] For 206 Not supported. But there's no way to re-direct, because there's a clear position: either we let the people's deputies be members of these committees, or we don't allow them. That's one thing. And the others. I would like to ask the author not to be disappointed because we have a proposal, sorry, that the President's proposal for a new edition of the Law on the Court of Ukraine is being considered on the committee, and we can count on it. And we're going to have to work very and very seriously on the system, because I think there's practically no one among us and among our voters who would say that the judicial system doesn't need a major reform. So please, I think this idea let's try to implement it. We're looking at a global issue. Too bad it got into the section “under reduced procedure”. Draft Decision on Approval of Ukraine's Basic Economic, Social and Environmental Guidelines by 2020. This is instead of the Cabinet of Ministers. Registration number 1112 Please, Valentin Ivanovich Landik is the author of the idea. Get Sanchenko Andrey ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The World Programme of Action for the 21st Century, adopted and controlled by the General Assembly of the United Nations, is a methodical basis for the development of a programme of main economic, social and environmental development in Ukraine by 2020. And the Constitution of Ukraine, article 85, paragraph 6, which stipulates that the Supreme Council of Ukraine approves state-wide economic, social, scientific, technical and environmental programmes. The program is based on a whole system of eight interdependent strategic goals that stem from the need to ensure the development of our nation, both now and in a long-term perspective. And what's important is that in order to measure the work of executives and other branches of government, special indicators are used in the implementation of reforms that point to the practical functioning of government and the state of society. A few words about goals. Goal one is social justice and human development. The second goal is education and information. The third goal is the health of the nation and the population. The goal of the fourth is economic prosperity. The fifth goal is a healthy environment and conservation of nature. The goal of the sixth is responsible management. Target seven is stable local communities and the development of settlements. And goal eight is a short international responsibility. Dear colleagues, I understand this program perfectly and in two minutes, but I understand exactly what document I'm speaking with us. And I want to tell you frankly, he doesn't have any political decorations. You are offered a clear and transparent policy for the development of our state today and for a perspective that can be appreciated quarterly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u133	Thank you, Valentin Ivanovich. It's from the profile committee. No, no questions asked. Sanchenko Andry Vilenović is the head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u134	Sanchenko, Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear colleagues! In discussing this issue, first of all, I would like to say that we have every reason to thank our colleague, Landik Valentina Ivanovich, because, in fact, a very sensitive question is very well prepared with deep work and deep knowledge of the matter. The Committee considered the draft programme, taking into account the decision taken by the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the management of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. We have also considered a conclusion that is in fact negative and, in general, we do not have a strong argument. The conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the conclusion of the Cabinet of Ministers, which in general also denies the form rather than the content and summary decision of the Committee on Economic Policy to support the programme for adoption by the Supreme Council, on first reading and on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u135	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Have a seat, please. Let's sign up. Please, Javorowski, follow him Bespallian. Instead of a coalition, the opposition supports the coalition, because more than two pros can't speak. And I hope the coalition supports it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u136	Vladimir Yavorowski, The Yulia Block Timoshenko, South Winnitzkina. Dear colleagues, perhaps the most difficult in our legislative process is usually to work on colossal, long-term, decades ahead of programs, whether economic, cultural, ethnographic or other activities of the state. That's why I'd like to thank, on behalf of Julia Timoshenko's block, Valentina Landik, who's engaged in this very ungrateful work, because I don't make up this program, you can still have thousands of different claims to her. Because to cover everything, more in a country that has colossal environmental problems after Chernobyl, after a free operation for decades of our industry, after a vulgar, violent impact on our nature, after today when the Ukrainian economy is actually in a balanced state absolutely. Because of this courage, find some resistance and “snatting” in this “pretty” situation the places you can rely on are usually positive. You could have a lot of claims before this program, such as from the same ecology. Here the author himself said that there was no political romance in the program. Romantics there are really no political ones, but I understand what colossal funds are needed for all of this. And today, of course, we need to look at the 2008 budget, because you've already seen that the President of America has already implemented his budget for 2008 and we've got a "cat hasn't been rolling" and we're obviously only going to take on this problem for the fall. Because of this, I would like to say that in the first reading of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko supports this program, there is something to work on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u137	Boris Nepaly, please “Our Ukraine, out of place. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u138	Dear colleagues, the “Our Ukraine” faction will always support those parliamentary bills that reflect national, national interests. And this is precisely the case when our colleague, the people's deputy Landik, did a huge amount of work and proposed an important, in our view, bill on basic directions and as the socio-economic and environmental development of the country by 2020. There seems to be no reason in Parliament today not to approve or support this legislative initiative, because it sets parameters for the social, first and foremost, economic, environmental development of Ukraine, which, in fact, the State is looking for and which reflects, in fact, our efforts to look like a European country and in form and content. The faction therefore supports this bill in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u139	Yes. Please, what is the government's opinion from the Ministry of Economics? Please. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u140	Thank you. I want to say that these basic trends, they duplicate in many ways already accepted documents of a strategic nature, at the same time, they are not based on long-term projections and there are some inconsistencies between the objectives defined in the document, particularly. For example, the objectives of economic prosperity, I'm just quoting an increase in wages by 10 times compared to 2003, while the Arms Fund is only twice as much, with a reduction in gas consumption by 20 billion cubic metres per year. It's very large and it's kind of a misunderstanding. Similarly, we see that, in fact, reform technology is not prescribed, it is only the final indicators for 2015. It means there's a lot of work to be done and done, and it's with the Cabinet of Ministers, where there are ministries responsible for certain policies. I would also like to say that there is a Millennium Development Goals document that we have been in Ukraine for five years. And all these indicators and targets are written there, and they're written by some kind of public discussion with other ministries. So I would just advise both the Ministry of Economics and the Cabinet of Ministers to refer to the Cabinet of Ministers to take account of the economic and social development strategy together by 2020. A document is needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u141	The discussion is concluded, Your Honor. Let's really thank our colleague Landik for doing his job for the entire Cabinet of Ministers and for his support in the first reading. Vote. [[13:31:11]] For 399 Copy that. I would ask the author to work with the Cabinet of Ministers to make his ideas the basis, indeed, of the strategy that we will adopt as a government programme of activities. A draft Law amending article 63 of the Ukrainian Environmental Protection Act, registration number 2285, is under consideration. [[for recreational zones]] Reported by the national deputy Lukyanenko. Please, from the Committee, Vice-President of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, Kovtunko Alexander Volodymyrovich. There's Kovtunenko. Which one of these committees is it? Committee head, I don't see Calchenk. The committee's offering to send for work, but I don't know how we are with you. Can we vote on the committee's decision? Can we? Huh? No, the committee's offering to work on it. Oh, no? Well, then the author will be waiting for his turn when he shows up again in the daytime. Huh? The committee's decision is that. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the prohibition of mass treatment sessions using hypnosis]] Registration number 1295. Reported to the First Deputy Head of the Health Committee, Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear fellow national MPs! The Supreme Council Committee on Health, Motherhood and Childhood reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Mass Auditorships of Medical Sessions and Other Similar Measures Using Hypnotism. The bill proposes to amend article 32 of Ukraine’s legislation on health protection, article 31, 37 of the Ukrainian Television, Broadcasting Act, article 20, 27 of the Ukrainian Advertising Act. In order to introduce defences and restrictions on conduct, a mass audience of treatment sessions is included. Dear colleagues! We have examined this bill and are ready to accept a number of comments that have been made both by the Analytical Authority and by our experts. At the same time, the committee agrees that a number of proposed changes, such as, let's say, I know what this observation is going to be before the Advertising, Television and Broadcasting Act, are about articles that, in fact, are not available, that is, somewhere in the bill proposed might be carrying the maximum load. At the same time, we are ready to accept that the proposals are a little late. They're probably five years late, maybe ten years late, but the fact that such a need for such a bill is of social importance, I think all of you, dear colleagues, agree. We live with you in an age of information society. Today, we are working hard to introduce a bill to protect the population from information and pyar technologies and the zombie population in another way. But given how the medical component, as the protection of our citizens from mass hypnosis sessions that harm their health and their pockets, the committee would like to support this bill and encourage all of you to make appropriate changes to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u143	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Lilia Stepanowna, as one of the authors and the committee, reported to the committee. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Two — “for”, two — “against”. Were you “for” or “against”? “For” means only two “for” has arrived. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! Mikola Tomenko. I would like to support the drafters of the bill and say that, once again, I would like to remind them of the parliamentary history of this problem. In the Supreme Council of the previous calling, we have approached this subject many times. And we've gone a more simple way here, and I think it's a more systematic, integral path. We were thinking about how to edit the advertising legislation. Because, you remember, a few years ago, it was fashionable on some peripheral, regional channels to advertise and talk about how our experts, the divination, there, and other actors can cure tens of thousands of people if they come to the sessions of such mass recovery. And then, personally, as head of the Freedom of Speech Committee, I have repeatedly applied to the prosecution. We wanted to set a precedent to stop all of this. And this has created a problem for law enforcement authorities, because advertising legislation has clearly not formulated the responsibility for advertising such, with the permission to say, health measures. There is, there is, there is, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, there's, It's absolutely correct and correct. But the bill also contains a restriction that applies not only to advertising but also to the carrying out of such a mass effort. You know that a lot of countries, and our neighbors, have started to decide this subject before, and there are enough resonance trials where many cities and Russia and other countries don't release these people's targets. And I think it's very important for us today to take this step, then work between the first and the second readings in part, and still practical application of this legislation. But the general approach, the very important one that we're talking about, if you're a great expert, a specialist, you have to work individually. There can be no mass audiences and no healing of the whole country. So we suggest that we support it in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u145	Please, Alexander Paklusenko, out of the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u146	Alexander Pecklusenko, faction of Party regions. We generally support the philosophy of this law because, indeed, mass hypnosis, its destructive qualities, is felt by people. By the way, the worst form of mass hypnosis is among us and we need to think about it. The second point that I would like to point out is that everyone must have paid attention. And when it ends not mass hypnosis, but when does it begin mass as defined by quantity, location? So that you and I, along with the water, don't throw away the baby. It's a medical hypnosis. Therefore, the law must be adopted only on first reading and second reading to answer these questions. The faction will vote in favour. I ask you to give the floor to my colleague, Shevchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u147	One minute to Shevchenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u148	I thank my colleague Pecklusenko, first of all, I feel in the general mood that the bill will be supported in the first reading. But I would like to make a note of the caution expressed at the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. The Law on Advertising's current editorial prohibits advertising of any hypnosis session. Today’s edition only prohibits mass sessions. And I don't know if it's really the intention of the authors or if there was a little bit of a formula. And besides, the technical level of preparation of this law, it requires, frankly, a better quality of work. Because it is suggested that changes be made to nonexistent articles or articles that describe an entirely different subject of knowledge. In short, the committee is ready to engage in the second reading phase in order to come up with a quality option that will satisfy everyone and technically does not call a halt. This is the position of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u149	Well, thanks for the committee's ready. But that's not really your profile. Please, from the motives “Our Ukraine”, “Nepal. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u150	First of all, I think we should thank the authors of this bill for the fact that this topic is very important, it needs to be addressed. Because that, on the other hand, we also think, like the reporter Lily Grigorovich, that the law is a little late. Because this epidemic of charlatanism, which has passed through television screens, leaves no one indifferent. And it's advertising charlatanism like we're not here, but he cured us on TV, it's impossible. On the other hand, I think we can't really move on to the first reading today. And I would also like to draw the attention of the Committee on Information and Freedom of Speech to the fact that the changes here are proposed in the same articles of the advertising law, to which we have also adopted changes in the first reading, namely the prohibition of advertising alcohol and tobacco. I think we should also speed up the consideration of this law in the second reading and adopt it at the same time, and this law “Our Ukraine” supports it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u151	Thank you, Your Honor. Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the basis of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to prohibit the holding of mass treatment sessions using hypnosis. Registration number 1295. Please be supportive. [[13:42:37]] For 392 Thank you. Let's not allow hypnosis in the walls of the Supreme Council. A draft Act on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine is under consideration, registration number 1124. [[on pension conditions for the repayment of educational loans to citizens who have children]] The author of the Scrooge Initiative Artem. He shoots, but he doesn't talk about it. Please, from the committee, who can report? Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u152	Dear colleagues! I spoke on the Conciliation Council repeatedly, and here we are in a delicate situation. I'm paying attention to our colleagues from the Party of Regions so they can actually monitor their legislative initiatives. It's a series of social, humanitarian laws that I believe are useful for Ukraine, but obviously were written at the moment of the party's brief stay during the period of opposition. And today these drafters of the bill, who have worked for us on the committee and actively supported these laws, simply don't come to meetings to keep them out of the loop, because the Ministry of Finance is against us and doesn't want to finance these legislative acts. In this case, as chairman of the committee, in a difficult situation, because the drafters of the bill actively convinced our committee, we supported them, now apparently they are against their own legislative initiatives. So I'm going to inform the committee's proposal. We supported the drafters of the bill who want to sort out the procedure of issuing, so-called, educational loans. In fact, in Ukraine not so much money is allocated to these educational loans. This is about order of 5 million dollars a year. The general principle of lending is common to all people who are learning. The drafters of the bill, I think, sincerely wanted to do it in an orderly fashion. They propose a procedure for returning a percentage of the family’s family. If a young family learns, for example, they have one child, two children, or three children. Accordingly, the state goes and takes into account this element in the repayment of the loans that they repay when they took to study in the WUZ. We think that's the right approach, and the committee supports it because it stimulates our child protection programs, the demographics that we've talked about. Actually, it's not much of a budget cost. So I don't know what the Party of Regions is going to do. We offer to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u153	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I found a letter, I found a letter from the people's deputies, I found a bill that asked us to withdraw this bill. Thus, according to article 99 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, the bill is one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u154	Wait. Him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u155	That bill, that bill, the bill could be revoked by the subject of the law of the legislative initiative that brought it into the agenda. The second part of this article says: The bill. Included in the agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session prior to its adoption by the Supreme Council on first reading, it may be recalled by decision of the Supreme Council, withdrawn from consideration. Therefore, in accordance with article 99, I am voting on the withdrawal of the draft Law on Amendments to Article 11. Registration number 1124. [[13:47:17]] For-183 183 is not taken, then we wait. The factions, please. Region Party - 166, Block Timoshenko - 4, Our Ukraine - 1, Socialists - 5, Communists - 1, non-fractional - 6. Then, since we are already involved in the discussion, who would like to speak? Write two-for, two-again. So please, Mikola Kulczynski. Lily. Please, Lilia Stepanovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u156	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! Well, really, this bill came up with such a little bit of confusion, to put it mildly. Confuse for all of us, for the entire Ukrainian Parliament, because it can't be so that the seat gives us a position of perception. The thing is, let's count it out with you, yeah, you know, conscientiously, and how many students do we have here who, by taking a loan to study and giving birth to three children during college? Practically not. If students have one child at all, it's honor and praise that they learn and still have a child at such a young age. In view of this, it can only be said that the Party of the Regions has created a bill that is absolutely in the context of issues that have been going very well in Ukraine since 2004 and that it is legislatively provided for the protection of motherhood and childhood and for the promotion of young families. And it's all together a legislative program to counter the demographic crisis that's growing. And how much money will it take for young families who suddenly give birth to as many as three children in a hive? Personally, I feel that such families can be counted all over Ukraine because we will soon have families that are not students and have three children. In view of that, I am sure that this bill will pass in our Hall. I also understood this from the point of view of the faction of the Socialists, the factions of the Communists, and, of course, from the position of the Consolidated Opposition, consolidated by our joint actions. So let us, dear friends, be honest with the youth who listens to us today, support the law in the first reading, especially the financial year. Where we start to finance this problem, of course, it's not 2007. We support it. The faction of "Our Ukraine" supports the adoption of the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u157	Please, Alexander Paklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u158	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. I did not personally vote in favour of this bill and explain why. Fortunately, there has been more and more unifying processes in Parliament recently, when there is politics and not politics. You will note how we voted in favour of the Landik Act. Why? Because he was in the main interests of the domestic producer. Increasingly, Parliament is voting on social issues. And, of course, I am sure that Parliament cannot but vote in favour of issues relating to the fate of children, especially children from the poor, and children from orphans. But dear colleagues, wanting to do and knowing how to do things are different things. Any law, especially such a social one, if it has not been examined in the Committee on Budgets in terms of finances, if it does not agree with the Cabinet of Ministers, we risk turning you into an important event into populism. Therefore, on my behalf and on behalf of all my colleagues, I call for this law to be transposed and further developed. I am personally and confident that Lilia Grigorović and many other colleagues, we in the Budget Committee cannot find this money, we will consider this law and we will adopt it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-07-m0.u159	Yes, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues, I emphasize and confirm what the last speaker spoke of. Which, in fact, needs to be determined by coming out of the budget. But since we accept it, we will accept it only in the first reading, there we will determine from whom to put it into effect. So it's not that we're taking it into action. With this in mind, I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to Article 11 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine. [[on pension conditions for the repayment of educational loans to citizens who have children]] Registration number 1124. Please vote. [[13:53:01]] For 419 Once again, the bill was adopted in the first reading. No, we're not going to, in general, because it says that since it's published, we don't have that kind of money in the State Budget. All we had to do today was resolve, consider, we calmly, without blocking it. Thank you for your productive work. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. The request to work on committees so that we can consider that part of the issues, especially the personnel you have to consider, tomorrow. Good luck. Starting work tomorrow, as usual, at 10 a.m. Today work on committees and factions.
