ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, take your seats. There won't be anyone to register. Yes, I'd like my colleagues to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[16:03:53]] Despite the blockade of the rostrum, there are 441 people’s deputies’ cards registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Please listen to the information on the next meeting of the Conciliation Council, which brought together the heads of factions or representatives of factions and government representatives. We've come to this conclusion, I propose that we organize our work now as follows. The question, as you recall, was raised by the fact that a number of factions insisted on the immediate consideration of some of the bills. In particular, this is about draft law No. 3069 amending the Ukrainian Housing Services Act. [[on the installation of water prices/tariffs, central heating and water supply]] A similar project we were looking at with you about a week ago, 214 votes he got, even for work. So it's suggested that we go back to looking at it. The authors suggest. This requires that we, as it were, make a similar decision with you to return, since the rules of the Rules forbid us to do so at this session. And the faction "Our Ukraine" insists on considering the draft Ordinance on the impact of monitoring the state of enforcement of Ukrainian legislation and the rights of Ukrainian citizens to set prices and tariffs. There's a 2 essentially in the draft regulation. One of them is 3,183 written by Kiselov, and alternative 3183-1 is imported by Kirilenko and other colleagues. We agreed to do this, and now I'm going to give you three minutes to make an argument about why we need to put the bill in the agenda today, three minutes at a time. If you have any questions for those who speak, ask questions. After that, I'll give you six minutes to argue the position of Deputy Prime Minister Ribak's Cabinet and he'll answer the question if you have them. And after that, we will determine the fate of these bills. Do you understand the algorithm? Yes, then, please skip to Alexander Turchin's rostrum, and he'll explain why we need to go back to the 3069 draft law today. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I ask the faction of the “Regions” to sit down because you will now vote in favour of this bill. In any case, this was agreed upon at the Conciliation Council. And in principle, there is no objection to the adoption of this law. What's more, I think our political opponents are inspired by the government's wishes. In any case, it's publicly stated, to regulate tariff policy so that it doesn't become a mechanism for lowering our citizens. I would like to remind you, fellow honourable Members, that this law was discussed on the Supreme Council and, in fact, several votes were not enough for it to be adopted. All the proposals were taken into account regarding and not simply to be entrusted with tariff regulation. And the central executive authority and the Cabinet of Ministers can determine for themselves who has the primary responsibility. Second, it refers to the percentages associated with the functioning of the civil protection mechanism. There was a 20% offer, we can agree, and we agreed last time by 10%. During the Conciliation Council with the Cabinet of Ministers, a compromise of 15% was found. We can vote when, in fact, the law will vote, agree and, along with this change, vote 15% in the law. There were no other proposals from the government or from the anti - crisis coalition regarding this position. And the main position, my dear colleagues, is that I want to draw your attention to it: we can't leave citizens on their own and no one can destroy people by either raising tariffs or raising prices for other things that are necessary for survival. That is why such things should be linked to the income of citizens. And the next position of the law that I think should support the deputies of all factions, regardless of their name and political orientation, is the position that raising tariffs can't be greater than raising citizens' income. Otherwise, we're actually launching the area of genocide of our citizens and there's no one to pay for community services at all. That's what we need to understand. Note that statistics show that the number of payments has decreased even in comparison with those that were prior to the increase in tariffs. I mean, you can raise it 100 times, but people don't have money to pay for it. It is this rule of law that ensures stability in both society and social and political, including economic stability. I want to say this to government representatives who can hear us because you can't pay when you don't have money. These are the basic things that go back to the first year of economics. Therefore, honourable colleagues, there is a request to now include and vote in favour of this law, and thus we can solve problems in the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u3	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, let's take five minutes. Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u4	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, well, I'm going back to the same question that I asked this morning: this morning, in a voice, they practically tilted the committee, the Cabinet of Ministers came, and they're solving a question. I ask the question, I have no less important social issue. And the Turks, who reported today, are now reporting, knows that the Single Energy Systems have written 7.5 billion money illegally and have not been paid into the budget. [[is 30 per cent of the Pension Fund]] I ask you once again to put to the vote the number 2640 on the agenda of this issue on the establishment of the Supreme Council's next commission on the verification of the situation of natural gas security for Ukrainian consumers and possible.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u5	Dear colleagues, I'd be happy to give you an answer to Colleague Kravchenko. I want you to know that we have nothing to hide. You know as well as I do that this is false information. And we will be pleased if the anti-crisis coalition supports a reduction in the price of tariffs for the population, we unanimously, I promise you, we will vote in favour of your determination to put a dot in this lie. And so I'm asking, publicly speaking, we're voting together for a population reduction, and we're going to vote a hundred percent for your decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u6	Bogesheva, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u7	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u8	Lily Grigorovitch's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u9	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Ladies and gentlemen, whether we like it or not, it's literally 8 days before winter. We want it or not, but we haven't solved the issue that concerns at least 70% of the 47 million people we hear today. The Supreme Council, the parliamentary-presidential form of government in the country has failed to deal with the tariff vacchanal and people ask each of the national MPs whether he is in crisis coalition or in opposition. You are able or unable to make any decisions that regulate tariff hikes that will provide social protection for our citizens. In view of that, I urge Parliament to show that we are able, whether it's the majority or the opposition, because otherwise we give it all up as Pilate, washing our hands, at the ransom of local councils and ultimately we are in fact separated from our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u10	Dear colleagues, this is not really a question for me. Well, I'll help the government answer that. The point is, during the Conciliation Council, I think Adam Ivanovich will confirm my information, in fact only the government has denied the adoption of this law in the version that we have proposed. Even Communists and socialists were in favor. Why? Because the government simply wants to hide itself from responsibility for the destructive policy that is being pursued at the regional level today. And I want to tell you, dear colleagues, you can't translate responsibility exclusively into local councils. Local councils don't set the cost of gas, they don't set the cost of electricity. They become hostages of the situation in Ukraine today. And when the government wants to hide behind this problem, that it's a problem of local councils, it's wrong. Government, and I think that his faction of the Party of Regions should now vote and allow itself to bring order here. Colleagues, there must be order. We can't drive around all the regions, what Julia Volodymyrna is doing right now, and in every city, we can lower tariffs. We just don't have enough. When we do this procedure, we'll be doing it for a year. We need to adopt the law now and today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u11	Stepan's bubble, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u12	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I'm still turning to opposition, maybe enough of that population. On February 28th, let us adopt the law that the spring will come on March 1st. And for example, it's going to be very relevant, and obviously those who are happy that, as it were, they're running everything here and everything in the Supreme Council, they've won another victory. After all, it's a question that's really, really complicated. And it's obvious that Julia Volodymyrna would know about this as Prime Minister. But then, somehow, these laws were not studied or proposed. Now the Kabdin is working on these problems, and everyone knows it completely. And why we are obliged to break the order of the work of the Supreme Council after the first requirement of the BIT faction, God knows what to do. I repeat, let's not violate our laws, regulations and other laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u13	Thank you for asking Mr. Bulba. You know, it hasn't been about a year, like you've been in opposition. And I want to tell you that what the opposition says is not populism, it's the vision of most of our citizens of the problems they face every day. And I want to tell you, we don't think when this law is passed, it's our victory. I promise we thank the anti-crisis coalition that will adopt this law as a whole, and we'll say it's your victory, and you just vote and adopt this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u14	Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u15	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! In fact, we all know this is a very acute socio-economic problem, but right now I would like to emphasise that such laws should not be adopted by the Supreme Council, a higher legislative body. Why do I say that? The rules of the Supreme Council clearly stipulate that the introduction of such legislation should give rise to financial and economic justification. Please tell us why the explanatory note to the same law states in paragraph five that the implementation of the draft law does not require additional financial costs from the State budget. That's absolutely logical, but we know that it's very expensive from the budget. Why is that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u16	Thank you for the professional question. Dear colleagues, you know, unfortunately, our citizens didn't ask them how they'd survive under these conditions. And it seems to me that the Supreme Council, in the first place, should care about the survival of our citizens, the justification for their incomes that allow them to exist at all. I just want to give you an example that's very simple. In the Donetsk region, the square metre, which is operated by utilities, is listed as the cost of the utility of $5. 10 copies, in Cherkas, 1 grand. 90 copies. I want to ask, who asked for the reasons for these tariffs, when they were raised five times, we have a population difference. Our citizens work within one constitution, one law, one state. And in these circumstances, I think that the basis should be based on their own interests and positions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u17	Okay, thanks. Have a seat, please. I invite Kirilenka to present a bill on the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's decree on overcoming the negative effects, raising housing and utility tariffs. 3183-1. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u18	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, it is imperative to note above all that the ruling coalition continues to block the parliamentary rostrum, apparently again, so that these bills and the rulings that we report are not approved by Parliament today. We believe that the reason for the introduction of both laws and regulations is the repeated increase in housing and utility tariffs three or four times that took place under the government of Yanukovic. At the same time, after trying to resolve the problem, the government tried to shift the responsibility of raising tariffs only to the local authorities or to its political opponents. We have been thoroughly familiar with all the proposals made by the Cabinet of Ministers on how the government plans to exit the tariff crisis and we have come to realize that the only recipe proposed by the government is the repeal of the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of Retraction from Ukrainian Citizens for Untimely Payment of Housing and Utilities and the activation of explanatory work among the population on the need for timely and full payment of used tariffs. Thus, the Cabinet of Ministers, led by Prime Minister Yanukovic, proposes to lift the ban on foaming for late payment of tariffs for services from our citizens. Realizing that four times higher tariffs in Kiev, three times higher tariffs in Kharkiv, many times higher tariffs in other cities cannot be paid by a person who works and receives an average wage in Ukraine. Thus, the government plans not to solve the issue but to punish them. In this regard, the faction "Our Ukraine" introduced a draft regulation, which, first of all, suggests that the work of the government in the area of housing services is not satisfactory. Obviously, some of the majority may feel that this work is satisfying. So we'd like to put this issue on the agenda and determine by roll call. We also propose to the government that changes be made to legal acts that determine the marginal profitability of enterprises that provide housing services in order to avoid revenues that are close to the power of structures that make these expenditures not for the benefit of our citizens. In addition, the regulation provides for changes to the budget in order to bring the minimum wage closer to the subsistence minimum in order to minimize the impact of higher tariffs. We propose that in April 2007 the Supreme Council hear a report from the Cabinet of Ministers on the tasks that Parliament will now set for the government in order to reduce housing and utilities tariffs and increase wages and pensions. We believe that this question is relevant, and we ask that we make a name for our decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u19	Thank you. Any questions? Let's sign up. Please, six minutes of Acid Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u20	Dear colleague, I'd like to address you. When you said you wanted a government report, you didn't specify which government. Because you know that on March 30, after the elections, it was the government of Yehanurov that decided to raise tariffs. Then, in June, he again raised these tariffs by 1.7 times on electricity and gas. You know, in July, it was his government that made the decision to impose tariffs in the area, and your councils, before our coalition came, that most of them adopted the tariffs that the government of Yehanurov had approved. What kind of government is it to report, you tell me. The government of Yehanurov. Because the government of Yanukovich will report when the time comes and when people will tell you what you have done in these two years in orange power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u21	Thank you for asking. Dear colleague, I would like to inform you that the faction “Our Ukraine” insists on the report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine headed by Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine. If you have a claim to the decisions of previous governments, please cancel the decisions of previous governments that do not. If you have claims to enforce law, please make changes to the Law by the ruling majority and vote on them. For tariffs approved by local councils, I would like to see no one - sided comparisons. Because we have all the statistics on both the apartment board and the heat and the water supply, both hot and cold water. And it says that the accusations of local councils only by those dominated by “Our Ukraine” and BUT do not correspond to reality, because huge increases took place both in Donetsk and Kharkiv and in Bloody Rose. And we're not happy with what we're saying "sadly." And we need to solve this issue at the level of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u22	Please, Karpuk Vladimir.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u23	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Viacheslav Anatoliyovich, a decree has been made to overcome the negative effects of rising housing tariffs. I've been on the Content last Sunday and there's a lot of, really, a claim to tariffs that weren't controlled, that are set up to enrich firms, let's say, TEC, which is estimated to only get revenue for this winter about 16 million dollars. So the average temperature of tariffs was minus 24 and 80 degrees temperature at the entrance, 60 degrees temperature at the exit. So all of these things are technologically designed so that certain incomes are given to certain firms and certain people. So, of course, these things had to be controlled by the government, and what's not done, what's been recognized by the job is a completely well-deserved estimate. So I think that's how you predict why this government is doing that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u24	Dear colleague Karpuk, thank you for asking. I want to say that we're not upset about the fact that this government got a warm winter, on the contrary, we think it's a good thing because this winter has greatly improved the complications of tariffs that have taken place for all of Ukraine's inhabitants. For incomes that receive some commercial structures on the spot, these gains take place. I think that's the situation in the cities of Kiev, in the cities of Kharkiv, in a whole range of other cities. Therefore, President Yushchenko of Ukraine issued a decree on 6 February that explicitly suggested to the government, at the level of normative documents, to determine the marginal level of profitability of residential enterprises, the standard of administrative expenditure for these enterprises and other things. Yet we know that not all government officials tend to obey the decree. That is why Parliament needs a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u25	Baldirev Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u26	Please give the floor to the representative of Alexandrovsk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u27	Alexandrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u28	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Indeed, prices, tariffs have been increased across Ukraine, you have rightly noticed, including in the 12 areas where the majority of the MPs are members of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. There's raised tariffs there, too. I have a question for you. Given that the real root cause of the increase in tariffs throughout Ukraine, as you have rightly noted, is the rise in gas prices, why do you say nothing in this draft regulation about the punishment of Ilchenk, the criminalization of the President who really initiated the break of agreements with Russia? Why don't you want to talk about your personal responsibility today when you were part of the government that broke up with Russia? And that led to gas prices rising. Why are you giving up your responsibility?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrovska, for asking. I mean, both governments were formed by President Yushchenk. Neither the government of Timoshenko nor the government of Yehanurov worked to make relations with the Russian Federation worse. We have made every effort to ensure that the relationship between Ukraine and Russia develops as a relationship between two equal neighbourly partners. Another thing is that the unkind and the Ukrainian and Russian peoples have cultivated stereotypes that have arisen as a result of the many misunderstandings that have artificially plagued us in recent events. This does not change the situation for the fact that tariffs have to be reduced in all regions, whether it's Western or Central or Eastern Ukraine. What's more, I don't think this is a field for political opposition. I believe that both the ruling coalition and the opposition should now support the draft ruling of our Ukraine, because it will put order in the tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u30	Yes, thank you. Sit down, Viacheslav Anatolyevich. Dear colleagues, calm down. Yes, please, Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The government sees housing and utility as one of the main areas of development – this is to ensure effective tariff policy with a view to achieving business continuity. And I want to inform you again and again why this state tariff situation has arisen, and why are they playing on the mountain that many people today have in Ukraine? What did we get from the previous two governments that worked in 2005-2006? Debt in housing and utilities is 8 billion. You remember that the government of Timoshenko broke a five - year contract with Russia for the supply of 50 dollars a thousand cubic metres. Next, in 2006, the government of “Our Ukraine” doubled its gas prices. That's true, too. With local self-governance, including those today under the patronage of “Our Ukraine” and BUTU, left one at a time. And the analysis of the situation in Ukraine today shows that the most high tariffs have taken place in areas where the leaders are representatives of the BUT and our Ukraine. You put it in such conditions, representatives of your parties of mayors of cities, heads of district administrations, heads of regions. I met with your mayors once. You listen to what they tell you. I am instructing all MPs to know the whole of Ukraine. 18 areas today are the leaders of BUT and “Our Ukraine”. And there is no party of regions in 18 areas in the management positions of any man! Stop! Enough to mislead Ukrainian citizens, it's your parties, your distinguished political opponents, who put people on their knees and, of course, everyone needs to go like Julia Volodymyrna does. Go to the region and apologize for what you've done there! And Victor Fedorovich Janukovic's government is forced to correct the situation for you today. We allocated subsidies to budgets in full, and subsidies were given to one and a half million people. More than five billion dollars have been allocated for this purpose. Under such conditions, the Prime Minister has set before us the task of creating such a system for the formation of tariffs and the cost of residential services so that people do not suffer and are securely protected by the state! And I'm going to tell the MPs that this system is created in the country today! At the state level, we've practically formed a legal and regulatory framework, we've accepted all orders at all services, they're approved. We've authorized the State Price Inspectorate, the price check, and without it, no one will accept any more tariffs! Next. We've prepared eight legislative acts to improve the pricing of housing services and we're making these proposals. The Ministry of Construction and Architecture and Housing has prepared a program that will be approved on February 22nd. Such programs are prepared locally. They'll be accepted in the first quarter. That's why I want to say incarceration today. Ladies and gentlemen, the opposition should not be here, but there, in the regions go and work in 18 areas with its measures. Why don't you go ahead and tell us what's going on? The government claims that we will ensure the continued development of the state and protect Ukrainian citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u32	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sign up. Sign up. Please, six minutes. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u33	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Please tell me, is the Government ready today to inform the people of Ukraine fully of the gas supply situation, gas prices, tariff formation? You know, there must have been a proposal on the Conciliation Commission, including from Communists. And I know that the Government has not objected to speaking with this information in Parliament. However, our Ukraine and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko object to such a review. How do you feel about this proposal: to fully inform the population from the Supreme Council Hall?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u34	I am sure that if there is the will of the people's deputies and desire, the Government will inform them at prices for gas, beginning in 2005, 2006, 2007 and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u35	Victor Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u36	Victor Terrence, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Dear reporter, I just wanted to say that the Bushmen ruled the country for 12 years, and you promised you'd live better today, we'll all live better today. So the question is, what prevents you from breaking these standards that prevent you from living better? And the second. You say Timoshenko drives the regions. It really, even if in opposition, travels by regions and tariffs were, well, fairly set to Hmelnicki, in other areas, why else did Timoshenko finally throw up. Today he went to Chernigow to talk about tariffs following Timoshenko. And the question is, will the tariffs now be lowered in Montenegro, or will his trip to Chernigus remain empty?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u37	I think if you don't mind us, we'll do everything we can to make people better by 2007. So don't get involved. It's gonna be okay. And as for the Hmelnian Church or the White Church, I have an analysis here, and I'm going to give it to all the deputies, so where the leaders of BUT and our Ukraine are at all services, they're talking about more than even Donetsk here. So let's take tariffs for maintenance services. The White Church, where BUT is, is all there, the first is 23 copies, and the first is 0.77 copies in Donetsk. And so today, Uzhgrad, Uzhgrad, let's take where BUT and Our Ukraine, water tariffs are 2 bracelets of 14 copies. And in other places there's a ruby, bracelet 16, bracelet 65. And so by the water supply, and so by the heat supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u38	Vladimir Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u39	Vladimir Vasiljevic, would you please say, and did the Government make the impression that, if EES were to be accounted for in a timely manner with debts to the budget, there was enough of this money to bring our housing sector into a civilized state, to introduce all energy-efficient technologies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u40	I'm sure there'll be an investigative commission to consider. I know we took it. 10 billion debt and 8 billion GKH.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u41	Go for a walk. Go for a walk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u42	Please, Bertash.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u43	Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, do you agree that Law 3069 is populist? Because there are 14,000 utilities in Ukraine, and today they belong to these enterprises, the territorial communities. And today, the central authority can't deal with these issues clearly because the energy saving has to be done by the territorial communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u44	I didn't hear the question. It wasn't, was it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u45	Well, it was a wish. Okay. Bondarenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u46	No Bondarenko? Stone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u47	I'd like to give the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u48	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u49	Thank you. Dear Mr. Rybak! You know, you've talked a lot, especially about other governments. And there was a modest silence for their government. I want to tell you that, first of all, the government of Tymoshenko has never cut any deals. That's the first one. And show us at least one signature that would be under the termination of the agreement. So that's the first lie. Second lie. You tell me that the government hides behind local councils and how many representatives there are. First, local councils can't solve the issue because the government is blocking this opportunity by increasing energy prices. And the second position in Eastern regions, where you are the full-fledged leaders, is the biggest increase in tariffs in these areas, but we don't blame your mayors, because it's your government that's guilty, not the measures that you've set your time. And the last question is, we didn't hear any suggestions from you about how you're going to cut tariffs and affect this process, but only.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u50	You should listen when I told you on the Conciliation Council yesterday, and you didn't have time to listen. And as for prices, I'm telling you, from May 1, 2006 and July 1, 2006, your neighbors, ask them, they've increased their gas prices by two to one. It's not Yanukovich's government. He wasn't even on the doorstep. So ask and see what you can do. What are you asking me? Dear friends! So let's just put this all away and really consider what needs to be done to reform housing and utilities. Let's drop this policy. 18 districts are your leaders. Then work with them. What are you doing? How many can be misled in Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u51	Thank you, Vladimir Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, so on. Wait, wait, please. I repeat, hold on. What's Kravchenko doing here? He may ask, but what's he asking for here? So far, his drafts are still pending. We vote, we vote. All proposals will be voted on. Don't worry. Dear colleagues, this is how we heard the reasoning of those drafters who are now insisting on their consideration. Literally two words from the introduction of these bills for their compliance with the Rules. As far as Bill 3069 is concerned, you and I have been looking at it recently. He didn't get any support. That's why today we don't have the right to consider it, but since we've reached such political agreement, let's put it to the vote again, although I repeat, this is not in line with the rules of the Rules. This is one moment. One second. When we were speaking, the consultations were held, I think, in my opinion, we could vote on the law that went down to that, and we almost found a compromise, so that this law could be passed from two of those points. One point is that local government authorities only approve housing and utility prices and tariffs after the relevant conclusion of the central executive authority mandated by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the second sentence, which is part of the first article 20, reads that the targeted grant has a standard of living that does not exceed 15 percent of the monthly total income. Here's two of these points that we've proposed and made compromises, unfortunately we haven't got an understanding of those who are introducing this bill, because they insist on the most important to raise prices in terms of tariffs. You know, four times the wage now is utopia and not real. Unfortunately, we did not find compromise. But I repeat, even though I am in violation of the Rules, I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and now to consider a bill under number 3069 amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. I'd like to make up my mind. Let's do it again now. I'm voting on a motion to include 3069 in the agenda. I'd like to make up my mind. [[16:46:17]] For 193 The factions. Region Party – 0, Party of the Yulia Timoshenko – 117, Our Ukraine – 74, Socialists – 0, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. I'm voting for inclusion in the agenda and today's consideration of the draft decision on the effects of security monitoring, and more specifically, it's called otherwise. Overcoming the negative effects of rising tariffs on residential services. Registration number 3183-1. About inclusion in the agenda and consideration today. Author of Kirilenko and others. [[16:47:18]] For 193 The factions, please, are the same. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 117, “Our Ukraine” – 74, Socialists, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 2. And there was another proposal to consider today two draft decrees at number 2640, 2640-1. This is about making changes to the decision to establish a temporary investigation committee on the issue of verification of the situation and the provision of natural gas. In Decree 2640, this is the Kravchenko Bill and Decree 2640-1 of the Matvienka Bill on Change, where instead of the National Deputies of “Our Ukraine” it is proposed to replace the composition. Please vote. To consider these changes to the decree today, 2640 and 2640-1. [[16:48:25]] For 247 Decision taken. Please Kravchenko Mikola Vasilovich. Prepare Matthew or someone from Our Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u52	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Gas prices are a starting point in the formation of tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u53	Let's probably give it three minutes. Please set your time, three minutes. Please, Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u54	The Supreme Council was formed on 3 August 2006 by the Provisional Investigation Commission on the verification of the situation and the provision of natural gas to Ukrainian consumers by calculations, natural gas and possible violations of existing energy market legislation. But for objective and objective reasons, the commission stopped its work. My determination is to reinstate the commission and extend the mandate of the commission of inquiry to carry out its verification. First. Grounds for the cancellation of the debts of the EESU Corporation and the economic activities of the Ukrainian gas transport consortium, which were brokers in the gas market. The other one. Why the criminal case against EES was closed, which was underexpenditureding 7.5 billion dollars — 30 percent of the pension fund. Third. Who really is responsible for the sharp rise in gas prices? In addition, Japan has received new absolute material on the Internet, which states that, in the Lazarenko case, the US court states that the accused received money from companies owned or controlled by Yulia Timoshenko, including ESU, companies in Somalia in exchange for which Lazarenko used the position of office in favour of Timoshenko. In the end, I want us to appoint the President of the Commission instead of the outgoing head of the Dercak Alla Alexandrov People's Deputy, deputy of Sivkovic Volodymyr Leonidovic, members of the Kunchenko Commission instead of Rudkovsky Mikola Mikolaajovic. The duration of action is one year. The first interim report is to be considered in advance one month after the adoption of the statement. In conclusion, I would like to say the following. However you gentlemen do not hide, this is the work of the commission of inquiry that will answer the question of who created today's housing and utility situation. Who has profited there, who has solved their problems, and yet has absolutely no concern about how this will affect our population, and today, crocodiles are traveling through regions and supposedly creating a visible fight against this scourge. Therefore, I call on the people's deputies to vote in favour of this order, to establish this commission of inquiry and all the materials that are available, we will put them there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u55	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. Now there will be questions, but I make it clear: we don't need a new decision, we make changes to the ruling, we don't vote for a new decree. Sign up for questions, and we are making changes to the ruling in force. Please, many who wish. Come on, six minutes. Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u56	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I'm talking to the reporter, and I want to support this draft decision, and I still want to say that. In fact, we're still going to review the tariffs and they're being reviewed. Procurator's decisions, protests to basic boards that have made unreasonable decisions, these tariffs will be reviewed. Like they did, let's say in Kiev, in Kiev. The Poltava District Council will also review, for there is already an appeal by members of the Socialists, Communists, and representatives of the Party of Regions, which are not mostly there, in the District Council. But I have this impression that you can confirm this, knowing that tariffs will be reviewed. Julia Timoshenko is now trying to push her bill to report tomorrow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u57	Thank you for asking. I understand him in that way and I answer him. Yulia Vladimirovna is in a hurry today for one reason because the Government is taking steps to put order in this market today. And today, these actions, perhaps not yet well, will be said, finally formed, allowing them to say that in the regions, tariffs will be revised to reduce and regulate their establishment. That's clear. But in such a short period of time, it is impossible to resolve the issue. In Donetsk, we, for example, are like the Donbass People's Deputy, although they are sent here on, we have allocated 150 questions for working together with Mount Donetsk. And the High Council took them and adopted them, but, let's say, in processing, we're not saying that we're 100 percent right, but that we're going to take action together there, that's clear. Therefore, today the political force will hurry, note that they did not want to support the draft regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u58	Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u59	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Please pass the word to my brother Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u60	Turk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, you know, history repeats when we attacked President Kuchma for his anti-national politics. The only thing he could blame us for was the story of EESU, which, by the way, back in the days of Kuchma, was completely refuted by the courts and fully acknowledged all these claims by the lying mythical authority of Kuchma. And today, when tariffs are being discussed, instead of voting for our political power's proposals, in order to cut tariffs, they are again, like Kuchma, raising a question that has already died in his day. It's embarrassing to do that. And I want to tell you, here's how Kuchma rotted on this issue, so you're going to rot on this question because it buried all the bastards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u62	I want our voters to know that I have been in the opposition to Kuchma for eight years, although I was the Director-General of the Association of Firefighters of Ukraine, I did not hold the post of Vice-Prime Minister, as I did with Kuchma Yuliy Vladimirovna, as Turkinov held certain positions in the Government of Kuchma and under the Kuchma regime, how our Ukraine pressured us, the opposition, and today it is acting in such a furious ecstasy against the current power. I mean, it's just one thing, these people are only thinking about their interests and everything. This is what they need to do to make sense of their activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u63	I'm making an amendment. A Turkish colleague was not part of Kuchma’s government. I didn't. The head has the right to correct an error if he allows it. I was in charge of this mistake that was made. Please, Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u64	Please pass the word to Yavorov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u65	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Your Honor, I am truly ready to confirm that you have been in opposition, but in opposition to pay and pay. The second question. You said Julia Timoshenko was in a hurry. I'll make a full statement. It's really in a hurry to get this corner and hooves office of yours out of power. And the question is specific. A national deputy has the right to belong to one, I would stress, to one commission of inquiry. Please tell me that. Let's pick him as the head of all the committees we're going to make. What are you doing? You know perfectly well that you are violating the Rules. Why are you doing this?Oh, my God! You don't have any more heads besides Sovkovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u66	First, in my draft decree, I propose to Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna to elect the head of the commission and the deputy to Sivkovica Volodymira Alexandrovich. And now I'm going to answer that question. Because you did not want this ruling to be passed in the Hall today, it has been considered and reviewed since November of last year. That's why she could be out there somewhere, maybe getting old in some family name. But to date, Sivkovic has the right to hold this post if the Hall votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u67	Yes, have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, I remind you again. Be careful, for there are some inaccuracies in this regard because we are a little excited. We don't make any new decisions. You and I, I remind you, have adopted a decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation of natural gas by Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market. This decision was taken in July 2006. Now, in view of the fact that the head of this temporary commission, and he was our colleague, the Ripper, is no longer a national deputy, he is not therefore the head of this commission, since Rudzik's Mikolaiovich, who was part of this commission, is no longer a national deputy, so colleague Kravchenko proposes to make changes to this decision. We are not taking a new decision, we are making changes to an active decision that says that we need to select another head of this commission and extend the mandate of this commission and its term of action. The only thing I'd ask, and I'm going to go to the Party of Regions, here is absolutely Yavorowski right here, you know that we have Sovkovic leading the Committee on Materials Checking in the newspaper “2000” “Another militia”, so I'd like to replace Sovkovic Kiselov now, fine. Thus, Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich of the Party of the Regions is the deputy head of the ruling. And with that change, I'm putting this 2640 regulation to amend the voting order. I would like to vote with the replacement that I announced, not Sovkovich, but Kiselov. [[17:01:23]] For 242 Copy that. And one more thing. Dear colleagues! Before this decision, to which we have just made a change, is the draft decree number 2640-1, which is submitted by colleague Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Is he ready to report? Then I'm going to announce, and I'm going to ask you to support, this is a perfectly legitimate right of the faction of our Ukraine. The faction of "Our Ukraine" proposes to exclude from the membership of the Interim Investigation Commission, the one about which we will introduce the language, the national deputies of Zeynalov and Kruc, and instead introduce to the Interim Investigation Commission the National Deputies of Catherinechuk and Lopushanski. I ask you to support this decision. Please vote. Vote. [[17:02:25]] For 339 Amendments to the ruling are accepted. So, dear fellows, once again, I would like to stress that you and I have made changes to our adopted rulings in July. Since we have now appointed or elected the head of the Alexandrian Commission instead of the Ripper, I would ask the commission to actually complete its work, to inform, and we have made the appropriate decisions, because this work has been going on for a long time. Well, unfortunately, there was no head, so that's the situation. Yeah, let's get back to work. It's under review. We need, honourable colleagues, to include in the agenda and consider the draft Ordinance on certain matters of government property management, which has been handed over to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the administration of State administration. [[Registration number 3195]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda and consideration. Vote. [[17:03:38]] For 240 It's on. Please, the author of the initiative, Mikola Stepanovich Komar. Please, Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u68	Honorary colleagues, members of the Food and Deputies Council, were introduced more than a month ago a draft decision corresponding to the enforcement of legislation on the administration of state property, which ensures the activities of the Supreme Council, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. Then these deputies, the initiators, withdrew their decision. That's why. Actually, in the same way as it was written, so we repeated this determination, and I put it on registration. The draft Decree foresees state property that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine transferred in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 11 May 2000, No. 1711, on the issue of the administration of state property, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the administration of the State Administration to transfer it to the implementation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the administration of public property in the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers. There is a proposal to support the draft of this Order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u69	Are there any questions? Please sign up. Let's sign up. Yes, please, 6 minutes, Vladimir Karpuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u70	Vladimir Karpuk. Please pass the word to the faction's head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u71	Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u72	Kirilenko, Our Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! We are surprised by the urgency with which this decree is put into the agenda, because everyone knows that a bill will be introduced by the President in the near future that regulates property relations in respect of property that is in the administration of those structures that provide for the President's activities. Secondly, the proper submission of deputies to the Constitutional Court is also on this subject. [[and it's being considered.]] Third. We believe that this urgency is not about settling property issues, but about creating another obstacle to the exercise by the President of Ukraine of his powers, for the State Administration is ensuring that more than anything else is done by the Ukrainian President’s institution. I propose to postpone this consideration to the next plenary week.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u73	I can answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u74	Please, Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u75	My fellow Members, I believe that any question that concerns the office of the President is being translated into a political basis. There's no politics here. You all know that in our country there is a Property Act that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council. We don't have the same law on the President, and there is no law on Kabmin. Thus, the decision is offered by the current disorder in these relations and in the use of state property; it remains state property; no one passes it on to anyone; but it will be determined by a special authority on the basis of the decision that is being proposed for your consideration today. Carry on, well, we're just going to accumulate the negative that's already in use of state property and uncertainty in the legislative plan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u76	Yes, you will now. After Lazko asks you a question. Please. He's a member of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u77	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Just now, literally 30 minutes ago, at a meeting of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, we are considering a draft regulation that will be reported by Komar. This project was introduced yesterday. He's already on the committee today, and he's in the hall today. This is what I'm telling the Ukrainian citizens that the time to adopt legislation that reduces the level of pay for residential services is not in the parliamentary majority, but to take property away from it, in order to own it as much as possible, they find time to do so. And the possibility of immediate inclusion for consideration is also found. I have a question for Mikaly Stepanovich. How are you going to pass on what was handed over to the State Administration in 2000? This decision will have no legal effect. Do not make fun of the people, nor of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u78	Thank you for asking. And I'd like to ask you, and by offering not to accept, by offering not to consider how the people of Ukraine will view what is in the President's Office of the Spirit Plant or the Konezavod? Does the President need a spirit plant to ensure his activities? Should this ever be the case? Let's keep order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u79	Natalia Prokopovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u80	Please pass the word Kirilenko Viacheslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u81	Sergei Sas, please. They gave him the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u82	Sorry, take it off. I can't hear you, dear colleagues, I can't hear you. Kirilenko? Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, microphone. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u83	Viacheslav Kirilenko, "Our Ukraine". And yet we're proposing that we don't now make decisions that make it difficult to manage property, and that additional political tension will add. I'd like to say that there are completely absurd things in the draft decree. For example, it is suggested that the Cabinet of Ministers be given a dining room on the street of Bankova, 11. So the Cabinet of Ministers is going to run a dining room where the simple staff of the President's Department are fed. So I don't think that's the point. What is said in the rostrum. And the tiredness of the proposal is to create all the new complications in ensuring the work of the President's Institute. In doing so, the MPs who introduced the project know that the draft Act “On State Property Management, which provides for the activities of the President of Ukraine”. Without waiting for the Law, he proposes to pass a decree, realizing that the President cannot then impose a veto or anything else. I suggest you listen to our arguments and withdraw your ruling now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u84	Thanks for the offer. But now it is up to the Supreme Council to decide whether to shoot or not. I'm offering to accept it, and I don't think we can tolerate this mess in the state. It's supposed to be cool.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u85	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u86	Please give the floor to my colleague, Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u87	Alexander Bondar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u88	Dear reporter! First of all, I want to say that my faction colleagues have passed a very different bill, which relates to passing on to the Supreme Council in the administration of the objects that are now managed by the Authority. That's the first one. The other one. You know that since the establishment of the Office of Affairs, there has been a special decree, and these objects have been handed over by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. By decree of the Supreme Council, it is not possible to dissipate a number of objects because this is a complex issue. And then the budget allocated to these objects. We have to make changes to the budget. You know, the decision won't work. If you do not like the Office of Presidential Affairs, prepare a separate law and cancel it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u89	Thank you for asking. Alexander Mikolaiovich, we need to speak the truth in general, and from the rostrum and from the microphone: the fourth paragraph of the decree that I have registered and proposed to you after considering it by the appropriate committee contains, I quote literally, if you do not read, “to see that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 11 May 2000 is invalid, number 1711 – on the issue of the administration of state property that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” [[“News of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, 2000, page 267-268]] So this paragraph is a rewritten letter in a letter from the deputy to Nadosh and to the deputy to Zyjenov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u90	Thank you. Please, the head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u91	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! To carry out the mandate of the first Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 February 2007, the Committee discussed the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on certain matters of government property management referred to the administration of State administration of matters, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Komar Mikola Stepanovicz. The purpose of the draft regulation is to introduce legislation on the administration of state property, which ensures the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the administration of public property. The draft decree provides for state property that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, transmitted in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulation of 11 May 2000 under the heading 1711 “On the administration of state property that provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the administration of the State Administration of Affairs” to be submitted to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine for the implementation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the administration of public property. By letter from the Governing Body of the Supreme Council of Ukraine dated February 20, this year, the transfer to the administration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been agreed upon. The conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office for the above-mentioned draft stipulates that, according to article 116 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers manages public property in accordance with the law. Such laws include the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects, which provides for the operation of the President, Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to be carried out in accordance with individual laws, article 3. This includes the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of Property, which provides for the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which determines the order of ownership, use and administration of this property. Yes, according to article 1 and 2 of this law, the administration of such property is carried out by the authorities and, in the order determined by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the order of alienation and the transfer of the relevant State property, is carried out only by decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let's take a look.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u92	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, six minutes. Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u93	Please give the floor to Deputy Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u94	Sergei Sass, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u95	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. Honourable Alexander Sergiyyovich, in accordance with article 116, paragraph 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, is managing public property in accordance with the law. First question. Does the draft decree of the Constitution of Ukraine and, in particular, the law on the administration of public property objects, such as the third article, conflict with it? That's the first one. The second question. Just now, the author of Mikola Stepanovich's legislative initiative told us that this bill corresponds to each other because it was introduced by Nadosha and Educative. But after that bill was the conclusion of the Science and Technology Administration is completely the opposite of what was introduced today. That's the first one. And the last. One second.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u96	Please answer, Alexander Sergiyovich, you may answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u97	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. We discussed this issue with you at a committee meeting, and you know that under article 5 of the Act on the Management of State Property Objects, this property should be transferred to the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u98	Instead of Kirilenko, Prince Ruslan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u99	Dear reporter! As I understand it, the 2000 decree was intended to transfer assets to effective administration in accordance with State administration. And at the same time, now we just know it on our own, and without any evaluation of the effectiveness of such an administration, we want to take it back and transfer it to the Cabinet of Ministers. The following committee assessed the efficiency of government administration in the affairs of these objects, or were representatives of State administration invited to the committee, or did they report on the effectiveness of their work, eventually, the results of their work? What was the basis for recognizing the ineffective work of government administration in managing these objects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u100	Yeah, we've been looking into that. Moreover, questions have been asked to those managers in whose management the assets are now available. Let us say that all housing facilities located in the city of Kiev, please transfer them directly from the administration that is now in charge of the property.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u101	Hello, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u102	Adam Ivanovich, please pass on the word to Onischuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u103	Mikola Oneschuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u104	Thank you for being able to ask questions. Dear reporter, I would like to draw attention to one of the previous questions that has been raised in your address or address, perhaps by other colleagues, regarding whether they are referred to the administration of other areas of government that are funded by the State budget, at the same time as a decision to inherit these objects. It is necessary to pass a law amending the State Budget Act accordingly, since the costs of obtaining these objects are provided for certain articles of the state budget. It's not done. Do you think it will be practical to carry out the financing of these objects?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u105	It is my understanding that most of the objects that are transferred are not funded from the State budget, either within the municipal authority or within the relevant departments. If there is a need for an appropriate budget transfer, I believe that the Cabinet of Ministers, which by law today has the right to enter into a budget change, will come up with these changes, and such changes will be considered by the Supreme Council, and if a decision is taken today, it will logically be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u107	Alexander Sergiyovich! Vladimir Yavorowski. Let's just open up a little bit so that people can understand what we're talking about. If you put your hand on your heart, neither the presidential structure nor the Cabinet of Ministers should have this economy, they should be concerned with the state and the standard of life of the people. But since this has happened, let's tell the truth about why you don't go in with the law, because you understand that the President will veto this law, and then the veto won't be over. That's why you're going to the decision-making level. But most importantly, look at the logic you have: what he's talking about is, to the Secretary of the President, the liquor plant, he can't give advice. And Janukovic will deal with this along with you. So don't write that because of inefficient governance, but write: we're hungry, we've come to this country completely, we want to put it all under ourselves. Then it will be the normal text of the decree and everything will be immediately in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u108	You know, the committee has returned to this law several times. For the first time, the drafters of the bill were the MPs of Živynov and Nadosh, and we amended the bill accordingly and asked the deputies to amend it. And only when Deputy Komar has made appropriate amendments on objects that are not, in my view, practically any attractive object. And there are housing facilities that are now in a state of death. Therefore, it is not entirely appropriate for us to present today the claims that you are making by a respected colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u109	Thank you. Please sit down, so who wants to participate in the faction discussion, please sign up. Yeah, from the deputies? Two factions. Nine minutes, please. Yavorowski. Prepare the Prince. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u110	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko Honorable fellow national MPs, distinguished voters who elected these national deputies. The question that's being discussed today, I understand that for you, for the common people, it's completely mysterious and incomprehensible: there's something out there, there's someone there, there's something there, there's something there and there. I'd like to explain and say this. I'm convinced that what we have today is property management that has moved in with us since that regime, the former one, then caught Kuchma, and caught him very well. You know what Bakay was doing, when he was literally wrapped up, he was going to the Office of Affairs, or "The Soul," as he was called, the State Administration of Property, was also called. You know what was going on: "run" hundreds of hectares of land, "run" factories, run factories to feed this whole kumivian scroll, feed it, drink it, etc. Because of this, it would be necessary to ask the question that the Presidential structure, the branch of power, and the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers are fully obliged to deal with gas prices now, do something else. There's a constant war going on that's what's going on. It's absolutely clear that it's a masculine piece, there's some kind of shadow cost and all that sort of thing. Today, we have witnessed the arrival of a new president, a new leader of these matters to the Presidential Administration. I'm not idealizing because I don't know the subject. All of a sudden, neither of this nor someone's eyes are lit, and the new team that came and suddenly "falls into the eye" is the property that needs to be taken away and set in fact under the Cabinet of Ministers in order to understand that they won't be in power for long, so that it's quick to blow up some of their noses and stuff. [[It's like you know "half-hungry wolves" because they've already eaten something, but they haven't eaten anything yet.]] Because of this, and this draft decision is made today, written absolutely, don't give me the right thing to do, and if you say it more accurately, it's simply free. Because you can see, they're taking out some dining room, and this is what the Supreme Council is supposed to do? Is that her problem? Because of this, I am convinced that such a decision will not be voted for by the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. She, if you'll excuse me, is illiterate, and she's very clear about the corruption and the efforts of the new authorities to wrap it all up. Because of this, we believe that there is nothing to vote for. This is an absolute determination to make a particular clan even richer. Thank you. And in general, we have to cancel out, frankly, these administrations in general. We know what's behind this: apartments, big money, supplies, specials. Eating, special. The hospital and everything else, and so on. If we're a democratic country, we have to cancel it at all, not switch this property from one hand to another.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u111	Knazevitch. From the microphone, please. After him Karpuk tells the miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, a very interesting story comes out. Today the rapporteurs, the rapporteur and the committee representative actually built their own statement on the fact that this draft decision is nothing else, as it was actually reproduced in the new edition and introduced by the parliaments of Požninov and Našća's previous draft decision, but since they have been called off, it is considered by the deputies and the committee concerned that such an initiative should be supported, indeed, until it is not recognized to change it. But even the fact that the draft ruling was introduced early in the fall and called off soon by the deputies would alert us before we consider this draft decision, because if we read these two draft rulings, it's too bad that, even if we didn't get the previous one, once we're referring to it in this draft decision, we'll see that it's fundamentally different from what we think today is actually a new edition of the previous one. The point is that I think today's ruling has been spurred by the Constitutional Court, which, earlier this week, has stated that it reveals the conduct of the case in which the National Deputies refer to the unconstitutionality of certain articles of the President's decree on the creation of State administration in matters. Obviously, someone sees the unpredictability of this appeal and would not want to react to it in any way in a constitutional way after the Constitutional Court's decision, which in fact recognizes the constitutional order of the President as being unconstitutional. That's why there was such a rush to make this decision. Because only yesterday it was introduced, and in such a successful order today, I think it's no big deal if, at least this week, it could be examined on the committee and only after being introduced into the session hall. I asked the committee in its head for nothing, and what was the point of making such a decision? In 2000, for example, when the Supreme Council passed a ruling on a number of governance objects, it was because of the need for effective management of these objects, since it had in fact recognized that it was not possible for it to exercise effective control of these objects. Despite the fact that there are no grounds that there are no grounds that the State administration has ineffectively carried out this kind of management, we are now trying to make this kind of decision from the Bay Baruch. What's more, dear colleagues, we've talked a lot about the Spirit Plant. But there is no alcohol plant in the list of these objects; instead, there is a dining room in the office of the President. Why do you say one thing and write another? In fact, perhaps a whole range of objects should be passed on and viewed, but you are not talking about them, you are talking about, those on the coast of the Black Sea in Libya that have not been added, on which someone has been staring. Thus, our faction will not support the prescribed draft decree until a decision has been rendered by the Constitutional Court and an appropriate bill, which has already been passed by the President, is supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u113	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u114	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Deputies! Dear voters! The consideration of this issue is a vivid example of social problems that have gone up before, namely tariffs, such as raising wages, being replaced by another artificial and deliberate problem, as if the solution to which Ukrainian lives will be improved today. Now it's the essence of the question. There is an economic structure of State administration. This problem exists, and it certainly needs a solution. But it needs a legal, legislative solution. Does the proposed solution solve all these problems? First of all, it is contrary to the Property Management Act, the State Budget Act 2007. Thus, the decision is legally unfavorable and unnecessary for any execution. I understand that the parliamentary anti-crisis majority today will vote in favour of this decree and that the majority vote will be adopted. But without any legal basis, as a legal impropriety, it will simply not be binding on the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of the Constitution, and he will certainly not do so. So I suggest you take it off the table. On this issue, it is really necessary to prepare either a separate bill, or appropriate amendments to the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, or as part of the Law on the President of Ukraine. And then it will have the right to exist. In this way, with any result of the vote, it has no meaning for either the Supreme Council or the Cabinet of Ministers, nor the guarantor of the Constitution of the President of Ukraine, nor any more for the Ukrainian people whose lives nor their wages will change. Therefore, the decision must be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u115	Yeah, one minute left. Baby, please. One minute, give him a chance to go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u116	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Of course, it's too late to convince the so-called anti-crisis coalition in this room -- the people who go to the hole yesterday, register a draft decision, today they're looking at it on the committee, and in half an hour they're putting it into the hall. And that's why I'm addressing the citizens of Ukraine. You, the honourable voters, must understand what Parliament is like today. They're not interested in your problems. Today they refused to vote in favour of the Timoshenko Bill, which limited prices and tariffs for residential services, they refused to submit a daily bill on raising the living minimum, the minimum wage, for which they don't have time. Last week, the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, fought for several days for returning the benefits to medical workers in the rural industry, overcoming the opposition of socialists and representatives of another anti - crisis coalition. The social problems of Ukrainian citizens do not reach them. If we have to scrape the property, they'll do everything here in half an hour. That is why we do not explicitly support this draft decision and pay attention to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u117	Dear colleagues! Calm down. Dear colleagues! Literally, two words, pay attention, literally two words. There were suggestions here: and liquor stores take away, and milk factories take away everything else. We are speaking today only of what is at the disposal of the Supreme Council, and of what we passed on to the State Administration in 2000 from the Supreme Council. Everything else: alcohol factories, conservatory, horse factories, forestry, and so forth, has nothing to do with this decision, because it's not our area of regulation. You and I can regulate in accordance with the Law on State, which serves the Supreme Council, only what is in the Supreme Council. So, please, the bold suggestions here that we have to include other objects here, we cannot include them, we include only what the Supreme Council has to do, everything else should be determined on the basis of a law that has recently become the Law “On the Administration of Objects of State Property. Let the Cabinet of Ministers handle matters and clarify the situation. Our job is to answer what we passed on to the DSS in 2000 and what we now don't accept. By the way, in 2000, we were handing over housing to him, and they didn't want to take it on balance, because it wasn't good for them, but they took what they needed, and let the rest be clarified by the law. So I'm voting on the proposal for a draft decision on certain matters of government property management submitted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the State Administration. [[Registration number 3195]] Please vote. [[17:37:10]] For 241 Copy that. Yes, can we make a decision as a whole? Any notes? Okay. I ask the Committee on Rules to give them a comment, please, and perhaps even this week we will take this decision because it is necessary to take it. I repeat, there are no terms before the ruling. [[second reading]] Decision taken as a basis. I'd like the profile committee to prepare it for adoption as a whole. Rereading the first reading. The 2001 and 2002 bill is the draft laws amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental and Pro concessions, the Bills of the People's Deputy, Kucherenka Aleksija Yuriovich. Is it Kucherenko? Yes. And so let's say he's going to report on two bills, two you'll report, then we'll ask for two bills to report to 2750 and 2751 Serbian colleagues, because they're, as it were, referring to these bills. [[Now, Aleksei Yuriovich]] We'll discuss all four of them and make decisions. Please, Alexi Yuriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u118	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u119	Four minutes is enough for two?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u120	That's enough.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u121	Four minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u122	Thank you. Dear presiding and distinguished national deputies, listeners! Alexy Kucherenko, "Our Ukraine", head of the Housing and Utilities Committee. I would like to suggest that you consider re-reading the many-suffering bills of 2002 and 2001. These bills speak. One has a name for amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions. [[on the award of water and water supplies and heat supplies to concessions]] Another bill is entitled “To Change the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, ” registration number 2001. [[on water, heat and water supplies]] These bills, if they are simple, are proposed to introduce a temporary moratorium on the transfer to the concession, the transfer to the rental of water - and - heat facilities. Taking into account all your suggestions, this moratorium is proposed to adopt laws on rental and concessional features of the relevant objects provided by the Reform Program. Taking into account your suggestions, it is also envisaged that these laws should not be applied to those objects that are already in office and in concession. As far as the ideology of these bills is concerned, I would like you to listen, as it were, and consider the ideology of the authors. We certainly believe that one way or another, concessions are, in the first place, progressive methods of managing these objects. But today, water and heat companies have such a difficult financial situation that they can get into the hands of, let alone, fraud or businesses and legal persons who simply do not have a professional and professional level and which can become life - threatening, first and foremost, for the inhabitants of the territorial communities to which they belong. That's why we're proposing, honourable deputies, to take this into account and adopt these bills in the first reading. Then, depending on whether or not the lease and concession laws are passed, we will make the final decision with you. And the last. I'd like to draw your attention to the historical analogy. Back in the occupied blockade of Leningrad, there was this kind of business when the Leningrads were offered to the hungry for a loaf of bread to give away just what they had. They were objects of value, gold, and antiques. About the same today is true of the gold fund of municipal property of our territorial communities. Today, any beetles are actually offered to give them 49 years in concession management of these objects. And this will result in communities never seeing these objects again. I don't want to talk about the tariff problem that these companies will face right after they're transferred to the rental concession, because then they're definitely not going to be able to influence the community's tariff issues and tariff rises, quality services. But what I'm saying is, in my view, it's immoral. And we can't deprive the territorial communities of actually the last thing they have today. So please support. Thank you for listening. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u123	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I'm going to ask you, why don't we get Chechov Mikhail Vasilovich on these two bills, from the Co-Rapporteurs' Committee. Then it's Serbin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy at its meeting on 13 December 2006 reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Act on Concessions and Rentals of Water, Water and Heating Facilities, introduced by the People's Deputies. The bill proposes to exclude from the list of public and municipal property rights that may be provided in concessions or leases, water supplies, removals, sewage treatment, and the provision of heat services to consumers in order to prevent abuse in this area. Project analysis 2001 and 2002 shows the need for their alignment with the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities 2004-2010. Under chapter six, paragraph 4, which states that the source of funding for the program is the involvement of foreign investment and the costs of individuals and legal entities, in fact, means that only one of these laws can have full legislative power. Or the projects that we are considering today, or the Law on the National Programme for the Reform and Development of Housing and Utilities 2004-2010. During the discussion, the committee concluded that in the event of a ban on the transfer of water - and - heat objects. And in concessions, or leases, territorial communities are losing a real opportunity to invest non-budgetary investments in technical resupply of appropriate municipal systems, while the financial capacity of the territorial communities, as you all know, is not always enough, even to support them in working conditions. If the cost were sufficient, we would probably be working in normal mode today, and there was no such meltdown by the board. Given that rent and concession may be one of the effective forms of private investment in housing and utilities, as well as the impeccability of temporary banning of concessions and leases of such objects, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine drafts of the 2001 and 2002 Act, which were submitted by the national parliaments, to be rejected. And we believe that the next bill, which regulates the specificity of the transfer of these objects, will have to be supported in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u125	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Yuri Sergiyovich Serbin, bill 2750, 2751 out of place, please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, because of the rejection of our faction’s proposals, the faction has decided that we do not report laws today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u127	Yes, of course, the author refuses to report the bills. Well, that's his right. We're discussing the bills in 2001 and 2002. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Is it? Sign up, two "for", two "against". Well, let the faction sign up. From the faction. Well, please, let all four of them perform. Alexander Bondar, Teeth to prepare. 12 minutes. Bondar microphone, please. Or the rostrum. Suit yourself. On the rostrum. Go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u128	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, Our Ukraine block, Bondar Alexander. I'm doing a bill that Kucherenko passed, and I want to remind them of their history. The first bill, submitted by Deputy Kucherenko, was considered by the Committee on Economic Policy, and there were two observations that were fully taken into account by the author of these bills. The first was that they do not have reverse power, that is, they do not apply to the already concluded leases. So they don't cancel, they do, but there's a moratorium on the next arrangement of leases. That's the first one. Second, the term of the moratorium is set. If by the end of the year laws that take into account the characteristics of the concession and rental of these objects are not adopted, the moratorium will be withdrawn from January 1st of the following year. The MP has carefully taken into account all the comments that have been made, including by representatives of the anti-crisis coalition, and is now presenting ours with these and observations. Bills. I do not want to remind you of the problem that exists now, especially in large heat - supply cities. You know, raising tariffs makes payments to local budgets at 10%. This will eventually lead to the complete bankruptcy of these objects, since the funds will not go ahead and certain sanctions will be imposed on them. And these objects can simply get out of municipal property. Therefore, the MPs willfully want to stop this process and impose a moratorium on it. I don't understand why all of us, the patrons of the people, the municipal property of the state, don't want to support these bills, adopt them in the first reading, and immediately have the incentive to have the Cabinet of Ministers or the National Deputies develop appropriate laws and take into account the specificities of the transfer to the concession of these enterprises. So I propose to support Kucherenka's drafts in the first reading and to give an immediate mandate to the Cabinet of Ministers to submit bills that meet the urgent needs of the population for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u129	Valentin Zubov. Please. Alexandrovska is behind him. Huh? I gave you my word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u130	Valentin Zubov, "Bloka Yulii Timoshenko" faction. Dear colleagues, members of the people, we have spent the entire day blocking the rostrum, addressing a very important issue, and we have not resolved it for the benefit of the people. Well, what we're discussing here today is not random bills, nor does it just happen to appear in the hall. Not by chance, because in all our years of independence, we are going in an amazing, completely absurd way. Starting with economic reforms, we gave private, private hands to energy carriers, then eliminated the government monopoly on liquefied water products, and now we're looking for where to get the money for the budget. And the fact that the bills are so beautifully drafted today, the concessions, the leases, the heat supply, and in fact the specifics, those present in this room well know that, apart from energy carriers today, the second most important strategic target for national security and defence is the country's water resources. And today, specifically, these bills ensure if they are adopted that the Dnepr Donbass channel, on which the fate and life of millions of people living in the South-East will fall into the hands of a specific criminal gang, political, economic grouping. That's the point of what we're talking about today. That's why we don't have to say that the community doesn't have the right to do anything. That the community doesn't have the resources, tell us we want to drown and drown our people with water or gas or oil. And let's vote, and we'll see who really loves Ukraine, who trusts Ukraine, and so on, who hopes that someday we'll do people some good. And for our people, it's going to take a year to lay a mine, and you're going to pay the factory ten times more than you pay today for utilities. Because once again, the trend in the world is that water is limited today, tomorrow for Ukraine, today, and tomorrow it will be a strategically important thing. Therefore, I call upon all members of the people who have at least a share of their conscience if they have little respect for the people who have brought this room, in no way, to vote in favour of either or the second bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u131	Alexander's Alla, please. Behind her is Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u132	Respectable colleagues, respected radio audiences and those watching live broadcasts, but I don't think they're watching in the afternoon. Of course, Kucherenko and Petrosov's proposal are set out in two draft laws, and support is needed. We sometimes engage in reforms without realizing what these reforms really mean to our native Ukraine. The concession is a good scheme, an economy that is being used worldwide, whether it is suitable for Ukraine, and a concession law is being passed. And under the concession law, we can transfer the concession to the housing and utility industry, including the water supply, sewerage, heat supply and so on. But what a concession is, the city authority grants concessions to an entrepreneur, a utility, or water supply, the enterprise saves its money and, of course, the funds it makes it want to return. We don't have altruists. So, of course, the money will be returned to the entrepreneur. Plus, an entrepreneur has to pay the city for that concession, for that facility he rented. How does he keep this money to himself and pay the city where he'll get the money? Only by raising citizens' tariffs are the citizens' pockets clear. There are great schemes in the world that are different. I was in Berlin, where the Berlin water supply was before the concession, and this did not lead to an increase in tariffs, because a state law had been passed and the State had given the opportunity to the public, i.e. those businessmen who had taken the concession to work on another project. So they said thank you to the State, to the Government, and so they raised the tariffs, and some of the profits from the other project came in to upgrade the water supply. Do we have any suggestions? Of course not. Tomorrow in Harikov, the City Council will consider the transfer to the concession of water, heat and urban public transport. We communists will be categorically opposed tomorrow until the Government's policy is aimed at seriously modernizing the entire housing and utility sector in its entirety. We will not be able to agree to transfer housing and utility facilities to concession. Today, we know what the first steps towards the Government have done. For the first time in 15 years, Ukraine's budget has invested a large amount of money for the modernization of housing and utilities, and today we have considered the provision for the allocation of those funds on the budget committee. The Government has begun to work, let us give him an opportunity to work, I propose to support the two bills of Kucherenko and Petrosov on first reading, and the second two proposals that Serb and other deputies have not supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u133	The other two proposals are not discussed yet. Garden Santa, please, microphone from the spot, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u134	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The draft Law proposes to amend article 4 of the Ukrainian Rent Act. According to this bill, it is prohibited to refer to leases as full - scale property complexes that conduct water supply, water supply, and heat supplies. And it's an extremely important law because it's necessary to protect municipal property, which is strategic for cities, for individual locations. And in general, this law is extremely important, it's in the daytime order. But in order for it to work, it must not be provided as stated in the bill, “temporary nature”, and it must have a permanent nature of action. So in this case, we cannot agree with the authors of this bill that this bill can work for one year or more. We need a permanent law that protects municipal property that applies to both water supply, water supply and heat supply. So it's an important bill, but it needs to be redrafted. I can give an example of the city of Kirovograd. There are two supply companies in Kirovograd, these are high energy technologies that are currently leased in Kharkiv suitable private and heat companies in Kiev's private enterprises. So they dictate everything in the city of Kirovograd, prices and tariffs and everything. And municipal property, the city council's deputies are essentially removed from it because they're being pressured accordingly. And with regard to the water channel of the city of Korovograd, I can get these figures. The waterworks Dnipro-Kirovograd sells the water canal to the city of Korovograd 77 copies of one cubic metre of water, and the water canal sells the population 39 copies for three bracelets. If you look at the difference, 2 bracelets of 62 cents. Now you can see there's income or there's no income. And incomes reach 11 to 17 million in one year. Therefore, it is necessary to protect municipal property and the law must be adopted long - term rather than temporary. That's why the bill needs to be worked out, but it's important.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m1.u135	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental and on concessions on water and water supply facilities, the first reading, the 2001 Bill. Please vote. [[17:59:59:59]] For-179 Factions: Region Party – 2, Block Timoshenko – 94, “Our Ukraine” – 63, Socialists – 0, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 0. Bill number 2002 is put to the vote. [[18:00:39]] For 171 Dear colleagues, since this is already a rereading of the first reading, clearly does not vote, so the bills are off the table. All the questions that we had planned to resolve today even solved more. Thank you for your work. I'm sorry for the inconvenience. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Good luck.
