ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u1	Good morning, honourable deputies, and other participants in the meetings of the Supreme Council, distinguished TV audiences, radio audiences! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Come on in, everybody, put your cards in. A roll call is being made. [[10:04:49]] 264 deputies will be working for the morning session. The morning session is open. According to the Rules, you have a daily schedule for today, but before that, I wanted to welcome, on your behalf, the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Kozuba Andriyovich. [[Applause]] To wish him success, creativity, good. Just don't stop. Don't put the whole faction in the same place. Have a seat, please. [[Applause]] I'm announcing requests from the National MPs. Left Gnatenka to the President of Ukraine on the improper examination of the parliamentary appeal regarding the conduct of an active composition of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act with a view to preventing the threat of national security. If I agree to support the content of this question, I ask the question. Please. Enquiry, enquiries for the President. [[10:06:45.]] For 253 Query table supported. I am putting to the vote the question of sending this question to the President. [[10:07:05]] For 244 Decision taken. John Bondarczuk to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the non-application of the limited liability of the “Rey Plus Industrial Group” on the payment of debts on wages at the “Turbian Cauldron Plant” and the “Turbian Caolin Combine” of the Winnitz Region. John Bondarczuk also went to the Minister of Transport and Liaison of Ukraine regarding the inadmissibility of closing the railway station “Turbs” of the Region of Winnitsk. Alexia Baburin to the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine for his dissatisfaction with the response to the Supreme Court of Ukraine was taken over by the Shevchenkov District Court of Zaporozhye on April 21, third year. And a group of deputies to the head of the National Committee on Fisheries of Ukraine on the violation of the law in the sale of property of the state-owned enterprise “Atlantic”. [[Marmazov, Tkachenko, Kid and others]] These requests are properly formulated and will be sent to the addressees without delay. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of April, we have time to announce requests, suggestions, and so forth. First, write down the factions. And now in private, please. Please sign in first Kovtunenko. It was an accident. The Socialist faction, which one of you? Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! For all those responsible to their constituents of Ukrainian politics today, it is important to show the real goals and objectives of the government in the face of the other shocks organized by the torture group in the Bank. Ukraine's Social Perspective work programme, which is being implemented by the National Unity Coalition in the near future, should be widely discussed in society. The plans and the work of the National Unity Coalition have already found their reflection in further wage increases for millions of our citizens. Raised salaries for police, military personnel, doctors, teachers, and low - level citizens. And these are just the first steps of the program that is being implemented. Today the economy of Ukraine is on the rise, the state budget and financial discipline are being strengthened, and this is certainly not the last increase in social benefits this year. The work of the National Unity Coalition allows the adjustment of budgetary indicators and the creation of serious financial reserves for investment both in the economy and in the social sphere. Economic development, the right definition of priorities can only be built on interaction with society. Simply put, decisions on strategic investments that will increase the standard of living of citizens should be made only after consultation with the public in each region of Ukraine. It's important to get involved in this work now, both with the government and with the Supreme Council's professional committees. Now, a few words about politics. The great resonance in society sparked yesterday's statement by the National Unity Coalition, where an assessment was given of the coup d'état which Mr. Yushchenko is trying to carry out under the patronage of the torture group. We know that now there are MPs from the Supreme Council who don't want to work on the drafts, and they want to conduct the drafts contrary to the Constitution. And very soon, in the faction “Our Ukraine” and the Block of Timoshenko there will be new deputies who will be more responsible for the will of their constituents. Groups of members of these factions are already approaching organized work in the parliament walls. It would therefore be appropriate to involve these colleagues in working on a joint document by all five factions of Parliament on the assessment of the political and economic situation in Ukraine. I think it would be right if we, the representatives of the five factions, were to accept a statement that would give an objectively agreed assessment of the numerous violations of the Basic Law and attempts to eliminate parliamentaryism in Ukraine, which Mr. Yushchenk is surrounding. It is also necessary to describe the economic and financial situation in the State. Such a framework document is important for understanding the situation in the country and our citizens and foreign observers. Within a month, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will host a delegation of security and cooperation organizations in Europe. And Parliament must present with absolute clarity its position, its vision of the prospects for a way out of an artificial political crisis. Rest assured of both the preparatory work and the acceptance of the delegation should be attended by representatives of all five factions of Parliament. In this regard, it is obvious that a decision should be prepared to exclude key committees, deputies who do not want to work in parliament, from this matter. And they're going to include those representatives of the "Julia Timoshenko" and "Our Ukraine" who are willing to work for the benefit of their constituents. In order to restore legitimacy and respect for the Constitution, Parliament must make balanced and systematic decisions. When not all the robots who like to clap their tongues will leave the Supreme Council, not work on the bill, but the number of factions "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" will be restored in the order prescribed by law, Parliament will work fully. This will be followed by a normalized situation throughout the state apparatus. The law and the Constitution in Ukraine are higher than the martyrs ’ ambitions and puppets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u3	Thank you. The word is given by Matthew, Zybenko Peter Stepanovich of the Communist faction. Please, the Dry One is preparing for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u4	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction, Peter Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! As the Supreme Council of Ukraine continues to work, the coalition of national unity is all the more evident that the real reason for the exit of the so - called united opposition hall and the attempts to end the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in time is that they are afraid that if the coalition of national unity continues to succeed in such a successful way, the next election to be held in March 2011, the citizens of Ukraine will simply forget that there was such a political orange power. For the most part, this is confirmed by the changes made at the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by the National Unity Coalition in Ukraine's 2007 state budget. At least I would like to emphasize that the changes that were made to the May 4, 2007, budget, are completely social, I would say, across social. My socialist colleague was just talking about salary, and I'd like to add a few things that characterize the pension situation. And these changes have been placed in Ukraine's state budget by a decision of the Supreme Council since 4 May 2007, an increase of 177-288 pension dollars for various categories of war participants by these changes to the State Budget. Secondly, the beginning, liquidation, imbalances in the pensions of Ukrainian citizens who retired before 2004, that is to say, before the entry into force of the new pension law. Also, the increase in pensions for the second and third groups of general illness, which increased the pension by 42-45 dollars, and this list could continue. But even this rather narrow list shows that this will be confirmed, confirmed, and the thesis that I said at the beginning of my talk. And second, what I would like to address my colleagues in the Hall of the Supreme Council and the citizens of Ukraine. My colleagues, in particular from the faction of socialists for several days raised questions about the implementation of the law on the social protection of children of war. I would like to confirm that this is the most resonant question today. Therefore, in light of this problem, the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, which I have the honour to lead, taking into account the resonability of this issue, given that very many letters come from the implementation of the rules of this law in order to monitor the implementation of current legislation, at its meeting on June 6th, considered the implementation of the rules of this law and the direction of improving legislation in this area. In particular, we have come to the conclusion on the basis of information provided by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, that if you follow passports, as it were, polls, about 6.9 million citizens of Ukraine have the right to receive this status. But since 2.5 of them have a different status, including a higher status, de facto this status is currently being used by 4.4 million Ukrainian citizens. What I'm trying to say is that about 480 Ukrainian citizens are now being introduced, which are simultaneously disabled and war children, a supplement to the basic pension has been introduced. Although the committee insisted that this rule be distributed to all war children. And I want to add that the committee has decided on two things. First, about making some changes to this law, which concerns, inter alia, providing this category of Ukrainian citizens with compressed gas and solid fuel. And the second. We agreed to go to the Cabinet of Ministers for the full implementation of this law through the 2008 budgeting. Once again, this confirms the fact that the coalition of national unity, the government created by it, is working absolutely effectively and successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is given by Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi from the faction of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u6	Dear National Deputies! As we know, a sacrifice for a high purpose is sacred work, described in literature and honored by people. History knows examples of giving with its own interests, health, even life, especially when it comes to improving the future of your people or your country. But if the welfare of the Father and her future are devoted to the altar of political struggle for the doubtful success of one party, there are certain thoughts about who and who is working on it? This is what was brought to mind by the information we received recently in the form of working papers from the headquarters of the Yulia Timoshenko. This information is kind of a recommendation-and-recommendation for foot-and-mouth disease workers who have to do everything they can and can't do with economic and propaganda means to trigger an increase in food prices and consumer goods. In line with this party-political circulation, the main task of this action is to provoke price increases of 20-30 percent. The latter should be a powerful confirmation of the main one today, Timoshenko, of the wrongness and wrongness of the socio-economic strategy of the government of Viktor Yanukovic and of the sure replacement for the new government, which must be led only by her, because only she and here another “messenger” can save Ukraine. The desire to increase political ratings, increase the popularity of political leaders are understandable and normal things, especially for us, in this session room. It is a European and a world practice of political struggle. But you're not going to find an example in Europe or in any other civilized country in the world when politicians try so openly and terribly to ruin their own people's lives. The history of Ukraine, by the way, I would like to remind you of examples where, in order to preserve power by certain groups of authorities, a large part of the territory of Ukraine has been placed under foreign occupation, harming the people's economy. Thus, in his day, a part of Ukraine was handed over to Poland because he wanted to preserve his authority. Today's main thesis of the Butian leaders is that the economic realities of the last social initiatives of the government are not matched by any criticism. Instead, the objective socio-economic indicators recognized by experts in the world demonstrate the soundness and relevance of the strategy chosen by the Cabinet, which is based not on promises and unfounded increases in social benefits, but on a clear and systematic overhaul of the social and social policies of Ukraine as a whole. Yes, over the next few years, a retirement reform is planned to be completed in 2004. We're going to put in place a new system of social finance -- the only social contribution, the introduction of a mandatory national social insurance system that doctors and patients expect of us. Today, there is a shift in the reform of the system of socio-working relations and the pay of the work that has been incorporated into the draft new Labour Code and the introduction of a single tariff network. All these initiatives are interlinked. They form the basis of a single process of transforming the socio-economic sphere of the state and translating it into European and world standards. But respectable colleagues, our radio audiences and representatives of the media, in order to successfully carry out these tasks today, need first and foremost the political stability and interaction of all branches of government. This is understood by all of us, too, by the leaders of BUT, who, in order to corrupt the image of their political opponents, will do anything, even at the cost of the task of damaging the interests of their own people. That's why this situation raises the question of what is BUT and who this political force is working on, and what is the role in this entire quagmire, in this whole disgraceful process of circumcision of its members, of its factions, that the president of Ukraine has been doing it more than a hundred times, which has already imposed on our bills, including those that have social meaning for political reasons. I think we should keep the peace here in the session room, preserve the business environment, and both work and work on those bills that improve, including the material well-being of our long-suffering Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u7	The word is given by the deputy of Baranowski. Please. He's behind him, Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, our constituencies, present, the press in the hall! I would like to remind you that the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine from the first days, that is, April 2, when the President’s unconstitutional first decree was issued, took the principle of a position that a conflict could only be resolved on the basis of law, only on the basis of the Constitution and the Constitution, provided an opportunity to resolve the conflict through the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, the Registry of the President did everything to block the work of the Constitutional Court by destroying it practically and through the Constitutional Court and destroying the entire judicial branch of power. The effort is clear that only the courts could make their respective adjustments and give their verdict to the constitutionality of the presidential decree and all subsequent acts that would come out. And to some extent, they have succeeded today. The next step was to destroy the entire legal system. And you remember being represented by the Attorney General of Piscos, and 28 days later, by illegal decrees without agreement with the Supreme Council, it was his proper release. Remember, the force that the Attorney General’s Office carried out when about 400 people in civilian clothing, armed, without certificates, and who had practically blocked prosecutors in the premises, were brought into the territory of the Attorney General’s Office. Only the relevant actions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs did not allow for a strong choice of the coup d'état in the country, and the plans were disrupted accordingly. What do we have today? Today, opposition deputies, more loyally, their leaders, Kirilenko and Timoshenko, accuse the Supreme Council of not making the appropriate decision to appoint the deputies who have written the statements. Unfortunately, we have done our duty more faithfully. Unfortunately, however, the deputies from all two factions of BUT and “Our Ukraine” have not yet entered the hall so that their statements can be announced and found accordingly impossible. Yesterday they had a pyar action to get them to publish their work books. But, dear friends, you and I are well aware that there is order in every business when a statement is made, instructions are given, calculations and so on. And today, without making a statement without having to give them your authority without declaring them in the Supreme Council Hall, they demand that you give them your work books under the cameras. It's the next pear action, which is so cheap and only designed for our own proper, to deceive our voters. And the last. Today, I have provided evidence of whether or not I have written the Vienna application for credentials. No such statement can be found. In the Black Sea, they cannot, more faithfully, find a crocodile in Azovsky, and we cannot find a claim by Winsky to make his credentials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u9	Bubbles. Bubba, you're handing over Bogchuk, right? Well, please, talk. Six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u10	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The Socialist Party of Ukraine is one of those political groups of society that has gone through a real school of courage and testing. Its ideological principles were entrenched in an active and intransigent fight against dogma. We were tried by the most difficult customers on the frozen marble grounds of our cities and villages. That is why our people did not move forward when the socialists were in unrelenting opposition, nor do they give in to the most difficult trials of the day. Even when a wicked team is given to compromise from the highest offices of the State, it is morally wrong to destroy the minister of internal affairs, Vasil Tsushka. Vasil Petrovich has indeed received the most difficult, troublesome farming, the most painful part of his work, perhaps the most responsible in Ukraine. The Ministry is really the nerve of society, its smug point. A tush like a bulldozer worker from his early days at the post of minister began to give the whole farm system. And there's an increase in the wages for militias, and there's the discovery of crimes, and there's a lot of other gains. In his brilliant career as interior minister, Vasil Petrovich proved to be a determined and uncompromising man. Today's opposition and the martyrdom-pastrian group in the Bank are accusing the minister of being overly active in the capture of a group of unknown persons in the Attorney General's office. Indeed, the minister performed a brilliant peace operation at that time. Fearlessly moving ahead of everyone, personally exposed to danger, since it was unknown who and for what purpose was then blocking the premises of the Attorney General’s Office, which was the target of the attackers. Tsushka’s stubbornness and courage really played a crucial role at that time. As a real minister, a leader of a powerful armed power, he became among the hostiles as a real judge, showing that everyone in this conspiracy needs to step back to find out everything at the negotiating table. Today, it can be said that Minister Tsushka has managed to locate and silence the first conflict in the history of an independent Ukraine that threatened civil war. Having studied this situation as a lawyer, an expert on the right to assure all national MPs, all Ukrainian citizens, that in this acute situation Minister Vasil Tsuko acted exclusively in the legal field. He extinguished in the embryo itself a conflict that clearly threatened the state with a possible armed explosion, even though Vasil Petrovich himself had to pay for it with a heart attack. It's a shame that we have something like this when history puts everything in place -- heroes make the culprits of conflict. They even try to water the dirt, but this is not new. In fact, it is for Tsushka to say thank you for not spilling blood at the end of May. That peace and harmony had been preserved in the State. Time will place all the dots above “and”. But right now we all have to tell Vasilevich Petrovich that we are grateful for his courage and endurance, to wish for a quick recovery, to return to the troubles of the minister of the interior of Ukraine. To finish my speech I want to say the words that are in the mouth of all Ukraine today, of the entire Ukrainian people. Tushko is a hero! Pussy saved Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u11	Thank you. Vasil Stepanovich, one thing only. Basil Tsusko understood who sent the people to the prosecutor’s office. They were not unknown people. It was known that these people should not have been there. Therefore, they had no right to be in civilian clothing with guns and to do the crimes that prompted the minister to invite the prosecutor to release the state agency from such illegal interference. So that's what you have to say. And what he did, of course, within the framework of law and the Constitution, that doesn't call anyone into question. And what they're trying to do to him is apologize for trying to pin some kind of breach of the law there, it's going to be on the conscience of those who are trying to do it. Please, Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u12	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnitzkin, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. In line with the work plan of our committee and with the aim of disposing of the myth of the illegality of the Supreme Council, and of its incapacity, we held on Wednesday a committee meeting in the town of Hmilnik of the Winnicki district to consider a number of current issues in the preparation of individual bills, as well as in the March months, listening to or conducting committee hearings on the issue of the state of payment of wages, decided to exercise our parliamentary control and to hear reports from the relevant officials and representatives of the various authorities of the four areas that relate to the Podiljal region on the subject are Vinnitsky, Hmielnickka, Chernievsky and Ternopil region. I have to say that everyone we invited to the meetings, representatives of district government administrations, directors of relevant district prosecutors, labour inspectors, trade unions, employers’ associations, and so on, all arrived at the invitation, took an active part in the discussion of the situation with the payout situation, the repayment of debts, and we have found that, although slowly, there is a process of reducing debts on wages. If they amounted to a billion 89 million dollars on March 1st, they either decreased to nearly a quarter by June 1st to 835 million. In general, we agreed to make specific amendments to laws such as the Code of Administrative Offences, the Criminal Code, the laws on bankruptcy and the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay or to recognize his bankruptcy, the payment of his employment, the State budget, and to expedite the consideration of bills establishing a solid state guarantee fund to pay for his work. We also held this meeting in Hmielnik to consider the implementation of paragraph 6 of the Supreme Council’s decree on the conclusion of a child - recovery organization in the summer of 2006 and a child - recovery organization this year, as well as the draft Law on Child Health and Recreation. This is a very interesting law, a new, perhaps, word in legislation. Members of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour are the authors of this bill. In general, we have arranged and developed appropriate programs that will allow us to put an end to such a shameful phenomenon as this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u13	He concluded by saying who had not heard of ending the disgraceful phenomenon as debts on wages. Matthewnkov has the word. Bug Anatoly Alexanderovich is speaking for him, please. Who doesn't know, I'll remind you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u14	Anatoly Bugajec, faction of the Socialist Party, city of Harkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u15	Anatoly Alexanderovich, I'll remind you who's listening. This is until recently the director-general of Turboatu. Please, the Hero of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u16	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! The artificially created political crisis, as expected, is rapidly redistributing and moving into a phase of the economic crisis. I have before me a resolution of the protest rally of the inhabitants of the Borov region, one of the major areas of the Kharkiv region to which they address the President, the Supreme Council, the Government of Ukraine: “We, the inhabitants of the Borov region of Kharkiv region, the participants of the protest rally against the socio-economic course of the orange regime leading to higher cost of life, rising prices for utilities, gas, electricity, food and necessities, and increasing relations with Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. We express our outrage at the violation of our constitutional rights by the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko, and his environment towards Ukrainian citizens. The free Presidential leadership of Ukraine has placed our Rodin, Ukraine, once a flowering republic of the Soviet Union on the brink of extinction. Today, Ukraine's hostile forces behind the President and the nationalist opposition are trying to tear the country apart, rob the people of human dignity and turn it into speechless slaves. Instead, they want us to decide what we should think about, who we should be friends with, and so on. They want to disperse peoples, cultures, generations. We are deeply outraged that on 11 April, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine registered the NCRE Regulation on a step-by-step increase in gas and electricity prices. We are deeply outraged by the fact that the Children of War Act is not fully implemented in order to increase pensions under this Act. We categorically oppose rapprochement with NATO, with the European Union. And according to the survey conducted, 90 per cent of citizens opposed NATO. Therefore, we, as participants in the protest: workers, young people, war and labour veterans, all who respect the past of Ukraine and think about the future of our family, require the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers for gross violation of the Constitution, as expressed in the Presidential Decree on the early dissolution of the Supreme Council, in a number of other decrees, to require his resignation. Second: The Cabinet of Ministers immediately, within the time limit until the first June (well, that was a little earlier) to cancel the price increase.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u18	Implement the Children of War Act. By June 1st, lower food prices for all categories and essentials. We require the Supreme Council to develop an event to return labour savings to Ukrainian citizens at Soviet prices. As participants in the protest, we categorically oppose Ukraine's entry into NATO and the European Union. We are categorically opposed to the early elections of the Supreme Council. It's not necessary, it's absurd to do it. We demand from the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers for the Development of Ukraine, on the path of socialist development, the only right path for the development of Ukraine. This is what we sign up for.” And here are the signatures of the Action Group and the Organ Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u19	Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken advantage of the time taken in accordance with the decision of the Supreme Council and the Rules for Declarations, Suggestions, etc. Now it is necessary to consult you on how to resolve the following questions. Here's the thing. One of the presentations was that yesterday, a group of deputies from the faction “Our Ukraine” and “Bloka Timoshenko”, had organized such a demonstration. a demonstration action by, as it were, removing his workbooks. In the end, they were unimpeded to have books published, without corresponding records, published, as provided for in the legislation for temporary use, because in the labor book, they had to make an appropriate entry. For example, he was admitted to work as a national deputy, and he has to be recorded dead. But this fact is legally not yet complete. On the part of the Supreme Council and the chairman of the meeting, both I and Adam Ivanovich were doing everything in accordance with the Rules, except for one procedure that was not carried out because of violations of the requirements of the Rules by those deputies who wanted this procedure to be carried out, I mean, those who wrote an application for withdrawal from the faction. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, a member who has made an application for withdrawal from the faction at the plenary session is notified of such a situation. But the Rules provide for the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. We made this clear in the Order, but before that clarification, it was clear that it had to be done on the basis of the requirements of the Regulations, it was not done. Moreover, it should be borne in mind that this situation can naturally be realized in the presence of a national MP, or when it is clearly evident that he is making such a statement. I turned to the regulatory committee to sort this out in some way, because we don't have the practice of this, and in the Rules, the procedures are written, in fact, for individual MPs who are taking this initiative, and this is actually a mass phenomenon. And the regulatory committee, after considering this issue, makes its proposals. I'd like us to listen to them and I'd like to give the information first to the deputy head of the regulatory committee, Vasil Kiselov, and then, if we need to, and I think she will, we'll put the matter in order of the day and we'll make the right decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u20	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. This morning, at 9 a.m., a meeting of the Regulatory Committee was held, at which it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft Supreme Council ruling on some measures to ensure the implementation of article 81, paragraph six, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The draft of this decision is intended to entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with providing timely reports to the Central Electoral Commission on the withdrawal of the individual deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the respective parliamentary factions, which foresees the relevant constitutional and legal consequences and the immediate publication of information on this in the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine”. It's all information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u21	I got the offer. Then, in order to make such a decision, I ask that you include it in the order of the day before considering it. I'm voting on the motion to include this ruling in the order of the day. [[10:46:31]] For 261 261 - for inclusion. Roger that. Now I'm going to do general information on this. Last night, I gave an order to the employees of the Apparatus to find reliable confirmation. That's it. Apparatus based on a transcript of the meetings of the Supreme Council, realizing that the Rules have not been met for five days. I want to remind you last July, when the anti-crisis coalition was formed, for 10 days no one made any decisions, because they referred to an article of the Rules that says: 10 days in advance, we need to tell the coalition that a faction wants to get out of the coalition. And for 10 days no one did anything because the number was in the Rules. And what's written here is literally that it doesn't apply to anyone. However, based on the transcripts, the registration data, the corresponding messages, we have a basis today and, indeed, we have prepared them. have been able to prepare information on the number of national deputies, so far from Our Ukraine, the credibility of the presence of which at the meeting of the Supreme Council when their signatures were being submitted does not call into question. That is why, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules and Article 217, in particular, I am obliged to declare with him the declarations made by specific deputies on their withdrawal from factions, in this case "Our Ukraine". That is why I am stressing this once again, by following the rules of procedure, in order to then send these data to the Central Electoral Commission as provided for by the Rules, and to contact the newspaper Voice of Ukraine to publish these materials, including the minutes or transcripts of our meeting. A statement. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in support of the Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, 7th, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National deputy of Ukraine, Bilozer. April 18th of the seventh year’. That's what Oksana Bilozer's report is about, right, here's a reference to April 2nd, because it was passed on April 18th, and the President canceled that order for what reasons. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. April 18, the seventh year. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April 2007, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the “Our Ukraine” MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National Deputy of Ukraine, Vizaziowski.” I would ask you not to react to the conclusions on parliamentary discreditation, and this is judged differently by both those who write and those who don't write, but it's written in the statement. Also on April 18, the Ukrainian National MP writes: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine, in support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, 2007, considered it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, declare my withdrawal from the membership of the “Our Ukraine” factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Olga Gerasimük wrote this. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. April 18th. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call. National Deputy of Ukraine Eugene Gorenik.” Also, “April 18. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine in the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the “Our Ukraine” MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National Deputy of Ukraine Grigorović.” “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April 2007, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the “Our Ukraine” MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National Deputy of Ukraine Gumenjuk.” [[Gu-me-nuk. I didn't know there was a deputy.]] “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Yehanurov.’ “Following the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call. National Deputy of Žebrovski.” “Following the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call. National Deputy of Ukraine Zejnalova Edouard Zhangirovich.” “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. April 18th. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering the impossibility of continuing the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Ivchenko.” I read it like it says. “April 18, the seventh year. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Karpuk.” “Following the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fifth vocation. National Deputy of Ukraine, Qatar. Caterinchuk.’ The Supreme Council of Ukraine. April 18th, a statement was written: “Delivering the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the timely cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s powers” of April 2, seventh, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation. Kirilenko’. “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Knazević.” “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Kowal. I'm being asked the question that I'm doing extra work. This is stated in the Rules, so that no one in court can say that I did not read his application and therefore he has the right to restore his authority. On June 1, 2007, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in support of the Presidential Order of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine powers of April 2, 2007, considers it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, claiming its withdrawal from the membership of the “Our Ukraine” delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation.” The National Deputy of Ukraine Kostinyuk – at the time he was just recognized as a deputy, but he made a mistake, because on the second of April, when he wrote June 1, the President's decree had already been repealed by the President himself. But he still supports him. “On April 18, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in favour of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's terms of office of 2 April 2007, as it is impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation. Turn. National Deputy of Ukraine Krutz.” “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of President of Ukraine's decree on the permanent cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's powers of 2 April of the seventh year, I find it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, and I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine the fifth vocation. National Deputy of Ukraine Lanovy.’ “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. April 18th. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Kseniya Mikhailna." I read individual names briefly, and others as stated in the statement. I think it's right. “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. A statement. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. 361 Registration number, Moses, MP’. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Onechuk. April 18’. “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Termal Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Mikhailo Zjijenov. “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Poljancic. April 18’. True, he wrote twice on April 18. “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Polachenko.” “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Prokopovich.” “April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy of Ukraine Staszewski.” “April 17th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Chubarov’. On April 18, the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the Presidential Decree “On the Termal Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, 7th, which considered it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National Deputy of Ukraine Skutak.” These are the statements made by 28 national deputies. Here is the confirmation or message by the chairman of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the content of the following: “I report my withdrawal from the “Our Ukraine” faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. The National Deputy of Ukraine.” – in this case, the signature is, with the original certified and so on, drafted accordingly. I don’t read other messages because they were prepared with one hand — actually, on the machine — on the computer. That's why they're not different. But all these documents will also be sent to the Central Electoral Commission to make constitutional and legal decisions. In fact, on the basis of these statements, work books can be published to those who wish to do so by, for example, stopping their activities as national deputies. And accordingly, stop the activity or work of those involved in their work, in the state of the Supreme Council, or under other contractual conditions. And from that point of view, you also add the materials, the registrations, the messages from the faction, from the factions of both blocks. And you have just been briefed by Vasil Kiselov on the proposal of a regulatory committee regarding the order to organize the implementation of the Supreme Council Order on certain measures to ensure the implementation of the provisions of article 81, paragraph six, of the second part of the Constitution. The contents he read to you. I would like to recall once again, “In order to organise the proper implementation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on certain measures to ensure and implement the provisions of article 81, paragraph six, of the Constitution of Ukraine,” the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: to entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with providing timely reports to the Central Electoral Commission on the withdrawal of Ukraine’s individual national deputies from the respective parliamentary factions, which foresees the relevant constitutional legal consequences and the immediate publication of information on this in the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine”. This decision takes effect from the day it is adopted.” We have included this decision in the work plan for today, a letter prepared for the Central Electoral Commission of this kind. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, pursuant to paragraph 1 of the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 30 May 2007, “Some measures have been taken to ensure the implementation of article 81, part 2, of the Constitution” of the Ukrainian National Deputies' personal statements on the withdrawal of the Ukrainian MPs from the “Our Ukraine” and “Julia Timoshenko” bloc. However, the Ukrainian National Deputies did not in writing notify the chairman of the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the withdrawal of the parliamentary faction as required by part 3 of article 60 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, which made it impossible to announce the text of those statements at the next day of their submission of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I'm drawing your attention to this because there's going to be claims that, At the right time. At the same time, in accordance with this article of the Rules, this means allowing the next plenary to announce such a declaration. In spite of this and the absence of legislation, article 81, part 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine provides for the higher governing bodies of the “Our Ukraine” and “Julia Timoshenko” bloc, as seen in the above-mentioned Supreme Council of Ukraine, to decide on the permanent termination of the powers of Ukraine's respective national deputies. On the basis of the registration data at the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 1, 2007, in the written reports of the individual national deputies of Ukraine, members of the parliamentary factions of the “Our Ukraine” bloc and the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” whose participation in this plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is documented on their withdrawal from these parliamentary factions and on the basis of an announcement at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on June 8, this year, what I have just done is to send a copy of the statements and reports of the members of the national deputies of Ukraine and other materials relating to the above. The relevant materials will be sent to the Central Election Commission after the established procedure has been carried out by other national deputies who have written statements of withdrawal from the parliamentary factions. In this regard, we ask the Central Election Commission, in accordance with article 101, part 1, of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People's Deputies, to resolve the issue of the defence and registration of Ukraine's National Deputies following the turn of candidates in the Ukrainian People's Deputies in the electoral lists of the respective political party constituencies. Appendix: List of Ukrainian National Deputies, whose statements of resignation from the deputy faction were announced at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 June 2007; copy of personal written statements on the list of Ukrainian National Deputies and relevant written messages to the chairman of the Ukrainian plenary; extract from the transcript of the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 8 June 2007 and copy of statements by the Ukrainian National Deputies on the withdrawal of their applications for withdrawal from the deputy factions. These are also statements that MPs are withdrawing their statements of withdrawal from the faction. They're also from the faction, and they're also going to be sent to the Central Electoral Commission to make appropriate constitutional and legal decisions. In fact, everything in the report and the basis for such a decision. If you have questions, I can answer the question. Please, Eutuhov and Bulba. Please Evtukhov Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u22	Alexandre Alexandrovich, ask you a question. You've read the statements, and the vast majority of applications dated 18 April. Question: “Why didn’t the Head of the Supreme Council announce them for two months? ” In part you answered, but why two months? And the second question is, it's not a question, maybe a comment. Say all the same things you've read. I understand that this is not a question for you, maybe you'll comment on why they're all the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u23	Why two months? Because these statements were submitted to the Supreme Council Secretariat the day before the 26th meeting, if I am not mistaken. Revoked as Originals 05.06. They've just never been served before. These statements, I once again answer Vasil Ivanovich, no one has ever filed before. Obviously, I think that if they were written later, there would be no references to the President's canceled decree and other things, but it's their business. Why did all claim the same meaning? In short, I don't know. Everyone's responsible for their signature, I think. Stepan Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm drawing your attention to the following. For days I witnessed Grigorovitch, who is no longer a Ukrainian national deputy, demanding a certificate for his consulting assistants and forming these certificates. As it turns out, the national MP no longer exists, but there are his helpers. It seems to me that there is also a need for order. We understand that people lose their jobs and things like that, but the law is also the law, and Plato is also a friend to someone, but the truth must be more expensive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u25	Thank you. Consider this information. I just want to say that yesterday in the newspaper, in the "Ukrainian Truth" web site, the Ukrainian National Deputy has been accusing me of not publishing a workbook for the past two months, that Roman Immortal has not been able to get a salary on his new job or anything like that. An official investigation found that no Roman Immortal was asked to issue a workbook. Moreover, according to the Constitution and the Rules, he had to be relieved of his duties for twenty days, or of his assignment. He didn't, he didn't file. Next. He didn't get paid for his job because he didn't. He worked at another institution at the time. But as it were, he got the MP's money, which is what the accounting manual is about. And in that time, he got 20,000 dollars. I think he had what, as it were, to make ends meet. So I'd like us to know that because the material is common in the internet, and there should be objective information about it. Infantry, please. And Olinick. And then we're done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u26	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, regarding the text of the statement. So I realized that when we registered as deputies, we used a text that was approved by the CTC. And there were written down all the positions and all the necessary standards that enabled us to register accordingly. You read the statements. There must be some questions that I don't understand. The discredited Supreme Council is who are the ones who are going or the ones who are staying? If those who have gone have appreciated their step and gone, they will be praised and thanked for their way of doing so. Because this statement, it's probably in the CBC, is not in any way registered and it's not a pattern that might be for this case. This must be our gap in the Rules. We had to do this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u27	Vladimir Yuliyovich, everyone writes the application as he understands it. And everyone appreciates what is written to the extent of their upbringing and understanding of the situation. Maybe it's the way it is, as you said, maybe they're thinking differently, but we're not judging these people. They made their choice, and the Constitution and the Rules do not determine the content of the statement. When the deputies are registered, the procedure is clearly prescribed, for it also provides an appropriate argument as to the inability to work elsewhere and so forth. So they wrote the MPs as they understood them. Olinik Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u28	Vladimir Olijnik, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. Alexander Aleksandrovitch, it's not quite like that, because there's a law on addressing, and there's a law on Article 5 that clearly states what should be contained in the application. If there is no address, it is written in article 8 that such statements are anonymous and are not considered at all, but if there is no address and no other props, and I remember that we did not place a date and some did not sign a signature, this article 6 requires that such statements be returned for proper formulation. I have this question to you: did the Legal Department look at these statements in accordance with the requirements of the law that I was talking about, or did they meet the requirements of the law, because all Ukrainian citizens who apply to different institutions of power know if these statements are not prescribed as required by the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u29	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. I'm answering. The legal authorities examined these documents. Why it took a long time to go to work, since it was necessary to remove the statements where the beast with the original, the corresponding image stands on both the copy and the original. Some applications include materials or the results of the authenticity signed by the National MP himself. The addresses here are not really indicated, but there are forms of national MPs that essentially confirm the authenticity of these statements. And whoever works with these statements will appreciate their content according to the requirements that you are talking about. I'm not responsible for that. My task as chairman of the meeting is to announce the content of these statements, as required by the Rules. Vasil Kiselov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, at the very beginning of the discussion, you informed us that individual national MPs from the opposition demand that they publish books without a record of them. This is a very serious moment. I'm paying attention to who's going to be responsible, but the codes are going to give them back. And the other side, they're consciously trying not to let the record go that they're not national MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u31	Answer. There's nothing to worry about. In line with labour law, the Human Resources Administration is responsible for the temporary use of employment books with a corresponding record, not in a workbook, but in a register. And there's no record, and you can't get a job because you're not free from this place of work. Then, I say again, and when the fact is done, the procedure will be completed, and he will no longer have the right to write something else there, then this entry will be made in the workbook. This is a practice that exists in labour law. I checked this situation in the Legal Office, and they confirmed that there is such an order, and no one would hold back the desire to take their workbooks. I would like there to be no doubt as to who is responsible, or who is interested in taking the work books. Finally. I introduced you and Vasil Alexiyovich to the text of the decree, no objection to voting it? I put to the vote the ruling made regarding the fulfilment of 81 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine in this context. Please, there's a vote. [[11:18:57]] For 262 Decision taken. I want to assure you, there is a mandate for the Head of the Supreme Council, and I will immediately sign these documents and send them to the Central Election Commission and to the Voice of Ukraine, naturally. Next question. We must now make a decision on the information of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regarding the situation in Ukraine's agriculture as a result of the weather in May of the seventh year and the way it is regulated. Yesterday, the question was included, today, and the committee was working on it, and after that discussion, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk here is reporting on this issue. Please, Head of the Committee, Deputy Head of the Agrarian Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! To carry out your mission yesterday, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations prepared a draft Supreme Council Regulation on information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the situation that occurred in agriculture as a result of the drought. I also inform you that the day before the Supreme Council considered, listened to information, the profile committee also considered this issue at its extended meeting, and today we can firmly say, confirm that the issue has arisen, and the problem of agriculture in connection with drought, considered by the Supreme Council at the same time, in depth and in a meaningful and objective manner. And just for the sake of objectivity, it is worth saying that the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers in the autumn and spring season on agricultural stability, particularly in agriculture, have allowed for much mitigation of the impact. And for the sake of, again, objectivity and justice, we have to make a statement, and it will be true that when the head of state of Ukraine, after a one - day tour in three areas, concluded that the 4th June government had only taken the first step towards overcoming the consequences of the disaster. Then we should tell the peasants and the people that this is not the case, but the program of action that has softened the impact of the disaster in the last six months, starting with the autumn solstice company of the Cabinet of Ministers. And on June 4, the Cabinet of Ministers took the next steps, the concrete steps that we, and in the second paragraph, propose to approve the urgent measures being taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to reduce the negative impact of drought and to ensure the formation of resources in the crop in 2007. Again, for the sake of objectivity, the Supreme Council, after considering the matter yesterday, took up unnecessary research around the problem and other issues without politicizing the situation. This is not because the president of Ukraine, in his interview, asked not to politicize the issue. It was not likely that Viktor Andriyovich should have spoken of politics, since he was pressing on the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers to devote the funds provided for by the Law on Budgeting to deal with natural, future natural phenomena, to give, as you remember, to the election in turn. And as the Supreme Council rightly decided, and did not allow the Cabinet of Ministers to allocate the funds that are so badly needed today, and the Cabinet of Ministers is devoting them to overcoming the effects of the drought. Perhaps the Lord heard that we had wrongly wanted and punished this drought. So, as far as the decision is concerned. Of course, there's information that you have, the draft decision you have, the Cabinet of Ministers take note of. The second point is to approve urgent action. But, I ask you, honourable national MPs, to agree with our proposal to delete the third paragraph of the project, because these are the draft laws that need to be considered first, which are already adopted by the Supreme Council in the first reading, and they are indeed out of line. And so to write it down, and they don't have a direct attitude, right to write it down, we can't afford to take this issue lightly and distract ourselves on specific issues. And also, there's a fourth point, where there's already been a mandate from the Cabinet of Ministers for future funding, billions and so on. It's premature, this morning we've been consulting in the Cabinet of Ministers, with the leadership of the Supreme Council, which in October, listening, if we agree with the information, we can always, knowing the real situation, by gathering bread, harvesting, specifically set out for specific positions so that these funds can be used effectively. That is, take down the third and fourth paragraphs, and then the fifth to assign price regulation, not to let the price rise, and the Cabinet of Ministers to consider in October months. Thus, it will be an objectively short, concrete decision of the Supreme Council to provide information to the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u33	Any questions? Falco and Sulkowski, Matthew, Tkachenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u34	Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, Your Honor, I think that without a third and a fourth paragraphs, this decision will have a declarative character, there will be no specific figures, but it would have to be supplemented. And I would suggest that in section 4.2, I should like to add to this a project to renovate irrigation systems in risk-agricultural areas. This is very important for those areas that have been affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u35	Let me explain to you, Your Honor, that we've analyzed similar decisions of the Supreme Council, where there have been a lot of specific figures, but they haven't been implemented, because we're more into emotions than on monitoring and deep analysis, which costs and how much, and where to spend. We may do the right thing by having a coalition government, trusting him, controlling him, giving him both the responsibility and the right to determine. And in the urgent steps that the 4 numbers have taken in the Cabinet of Ministers, it's all written down there. Why will we assume the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers? We've responded enough, we've heard the information, we've calmed down society to some extent, and that's for the Supreme Council, we think enough, and we're making this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u36	Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u37	Thank you. Well, first of all, I'm also supporting my colleague, who just made an offer. I don't think you can, Sergey Mikolayovich, do it like you said, cancel paragraph four. The fourth paragraph, and see below, is subsection 4.1, 4.2, 4. 3 to the fifth point. You look at how many proposals there are, and you're marking all of these out now. Yesterday was agreed with Vice Prime Minister Slatka and so on. And now we're completely breaking this point, with whom did we consult? The committee was not consulted on our main subject. You're saying you've been consulting, who have you been consulting? With Melnik, the minister? Wait, gentlemen, ex-Minister, Minister of Agrarian Politics, this is no place to go. There was a discussion yesterday. All proposals were made specifically to the MPs. I think, Alexander Alexanderovich, it's not going to hurt if we take this project that we now have in our hands. And let's just end up throwing out points and so on and so forth, because we're not going to take anything out of this right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u38	I'm going to ask my respectable colleague Sulkowski, at least with me, not to speak in such a mentoring tone, and I'm going to tell you that you didn't get enough, that you didn't get a profile committee meeting. And today I have consulted with the leadership of the Supreme Council and I'm reporting to you, and with the management of the Cabinet of Ministers, and this is the request of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I think, and I suggest to the Supreme Council that this is the right thing to do, because maybe we're going to need three billion, but we're going to have to make three billion. We do not know what the effects of this drought will be yet. It's going on. There is a drought, such as in the Volinsk region, but this is how you get drunk in front of a coalition government, and the people cannot afford it. Let us be objective and sufficiently leveled by the Supreme Council to focus further attention on these issues by the Cabinet of Ministers. You vote as you see fit, I'll report it and convince you of something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u39	Sergei Mikolaiovich, don't be offended by Paul Gnatovich, he's so angry about anything, because he's worried about the case, of course. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u40	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, as you think, perhaps in the third paragraph of the finding, we should mark at least those regions where the most dangerous situation has arisen today, and if we are talking about everything, there is no specificity, there is no pain here in this regulation, I mean, first of all, the Supreme Council, which has considered this issue. And about the third operative paragraph. I support you, and I wanted to say that, in fact, the draft regulations mentioned in this paragraph, they do not have much of their direct attitude towards the subject matter of this Supreme Council ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u41	Thank you. Indeed, your offer is entirely acceptable to mention the 10 areas that have suffered the most. And more than that, you could add that with regard to the 15 areas where it is not bad today, or even the good impression that the Cabinet of Ministers should focus its attention and make the most of the harvest and quickly in order to compensate for the loss of impression in the eastern areas. So this proposal, I think, honourable deputies, can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u42	Tweezer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u43	Alexander Alexandrovich and Sergey Nikolaevich. First of all, the subject of the conversation, we heard yesterday, we didn't hear the balance of the grain. And in this regulation, the balance of the grain, that is, the predicted gross congregation and its layout, we need to know what the language, where the money is allocated, where the resources are allocated, and you just can't, the decision isn't written like that. So I would ask one of the first points to the notation that we are going to get this year and figure out what the volume is. That's the first one. The other one. We need to make sure that we don’t need money in September, October, but we need money now! Today's the day! Underneath that money, under the development of the village, and a clear definition of how much grain is produced and under the next year’s harvest. This clearly has to be written.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u44	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u45	And next. Now, please take a look at what you wrote in paragraph 4.2. You, please, let us write. We know how much is budgeted. And we have to write how much more is going on, for what? On that, on that, on that, on that, on that, on that, on that, on that, on that, on that, on Here we have to write it down. And they will write: this is the month of June, this is the month of September, this is the month of July, and the month of September. In October, the cost can be allocated only to livestock and food. And they're going to focus on these three months. And the last. I think with the bread made within twelve million tons for food needs and at least 16 to 18 million for feed, and at least 4 million for sowing purposes, it takes 15 to 16 billion dollars. And we need to make this clear so that people know that an active parliament isn't just
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u46	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Short. First. On balance. This will be my firm personal opinion on your proposal, as well as the Supreme Council, and every national MP, and anyone else would be in a market economy situation to expressly forbid premature, at least, before harvesting talk about the bread balance and promote it, and to speak from the rostrum of the Supreme Council. This brings it all the way to the London Stock Exchange, it knocks down, it breaks down the price policy. This leads to all those leaps and to bread, and we talk about it sometimes without understanding the damage we are doing. Only the Prime Minister can do this, and perhaps the Minister of Agriculture, and no more. And that, according to a discussion in the Cabinet of Ministers. It's you that we agreed on the balance sheet, and the fourth-number government has decided to introduce daily monitoring, and monthly bread balance coming out of a specific situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u47	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions were, in fact, a discussion of what should be the meaning, what should be the meaning of the decision. I'd like us to pay attention to one detail. We work in such a system of power when a government is formed by parliament. And the government is responsible for solving these issues, and Parliament either trusts the government or doesn't trust the government. Therefore, if we trust in the government, let him make sure that people do not hear, experience the effects of drought, or receive adequate compensation. And if it turns out that this activity did not satisfy the need, then we can send him out as a government worker, or minister, as we analyze the work of the government. One day, or react differently. I'd like to ask you, here's Valery Grigorovitch Matthew's proposal about inserting, links to specific areas. I think it's absolutely necessary to write this down in order for it to be possible then, both in the government's activities and in the monitoring of the measures that the government has been providing, that is to say. As for the third, fourth paragraph, I'm not going to take any position right now, although if I were to consider this issue, I, if we agreed to take action by the Cabinet of Ministers, wouldn't detail them, because we're interfering with the function of the Cabinet of Ministers. I'll say it again. Alexander Mikolayovich, when you were the first Vice Prime Minister, you know you didn't want to get involved in your affairs. But then, when you had to cut some money off, you went to Parliament, but then there was another situation. And today the government is formed, not by the President, but by the Supreme Council. If this is not enough, we will consider in September the question of, say, resigning a minister and putting a dot on it. I ask you, with the suggestions that Matthew made and the thoughts of Sergio Mikolaiovich, I place this document as a document of the Supreme Council as a whole. Please. I mean, no third, no fourth. Please. [[11:38:18]] For 244 Decision taken. Thank you. By the way, this was the decision, but a non-vote item was the proposal to consider a draft bill on the development and consumption of biological fuels at the session. This document is prepared, and it's given to you. I'd like you to include it in the order of the day, please, registration number 3158. [[11:39:09]] For 254 Decision taken. The word is given for this account by Gregory Mikolaiovich Kaletnik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u48	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, today your consideration on behalf of the community of national authors is presented for second reading strategically, in our view, a bill on the production and consumption of biofuels. I will not stop because at the first reading and the goal, and the need for all of this, we have considered quite thoroughly. I just want to add something to the fact that the civilized world has moved in this direction a long time ago. And if Ukraine is too late to start, it will have nothing left to do with making up for backlogs or being an entirely raw supplement. Today, the issue is clear: legislatively ensure the development of this raw material in Ukraine, provide for its own needs for biofuels, and work on its exports rather than being a raw supplement. This is a principled position, and Ukraine can do this because it has enough land. The proposed bill is the first step toward doing so. With the adoption of the bill and the widespread introduction of production and consumption of biofuels in Ukraine, there will be a significant increase in tax revenues for all levels, more jobs, more wages and more income for citizens, especially the lowest-paid part of the population today. In preparing a draft for second reading to the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations, 73 proposals and amendments were received from the Ukrainian national deputies. They are all carefully worked, discussed at committee meetings. Two events took place during this period: one international conference organized by the Committee of the Supreme Council and the Association of Ukrbioenergo. Of the 73 amendments, 11 are included, 12 are included in part, 12 are included in another edition, and 29 are rejected. After reviewing the comments and rights, the Professional Committee considered the bill and unanimously recommended that the Supreme Council accept it on second reading and in general as a law. There was a reference to the Legal Authority, which was handed out yesterday with the first table. The authors ’ team worked with the Legal Authority. And what has been given in exchange today is taken into account and initiated by the Legal Authority without notice. And separate articles of the bill with the help of the Legal Authority were just removed and taken into account. So I'd like to wrap it up. And those amendments that aren't taken into account if there's any insistence or need to be explained are the amendments of the Klimts people's deputy, some of the unaccounted-for people's deputies of Yankovsky and the people's deputy is part of the unaccounted-for Lukyanchuk -- I can explain. In addition, on the preface, I would like to say for the transcript, Alexandre Alexandrovich, that a purely technical error has been made. On page 1 of paragraph 1 of the First Preamble of the Law, the word “species of fuel” was removed from the circle, and here, in the first paragraph, it remained. On page 4, it is also necessary to delete in the second paragraph of article 7, in view of the fact that the article is perfectly similar to that of article 4, paragraph 2, and that it is also reproduced in article 7. The oil is also oil, and somehow, if it's gone through the computer, it's just going to remove it because it's duplicated. On page 4 of article 7, paragraph 7, in the table, the column name is complete because it has been reduced, namely, the standards for the production of mixed petrol with the content of bioethanol from 2 to 5.7 percent in such proportions to the total volume. And in the final positions, after, at 7, in paragraph 7.13.9 after the words “received from sale”, add “bioburned.” It will read, “received from the sale of biofuels mentioned in part four of the third article of this law”. On page 6 in paragraph “Y” the only words appeared, at the beginning of the sentence they are also at the end: “specific techniques and equipment, equipment”. They need to be removed. It's a completely technical mistake. And another thing is, on page 12, paragraph 11, the final positions in printing came out with the words 3.1: “The Cabinet of Ministers recommends the creation of a special executive body for the development of production and consumption of biological fuels”. These are technical errors, so I just had to say for the transcript, because they're going to have to make these technical amendments if the law is to be passed. I'm ready to answer the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u49	Gregory Mikolaiovich, you're not ready to answer questions, because we're looking at a second reading of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u50	Oh, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u51	I have to go to the authors of the amendments, please, Klimec, he has many amendments and some of them are rejected, or taken into account in another edition. Does he have any thoughts on this? I won't. Jankowski? No, it's not. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u52	Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u53	Lukyanchuk? He agrees. Do you have an amendment? Falco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u54	Dear Gregory Mikolaiovich, on May 24, I directed my remarks, but they were not taken into account. If you don't mind, I'll read them to you right now. And I would like to add part 5 of article 8 to this sentence: State regulation of production and consumption of biofuels produced in Ukraine, to supplement it with a paragraph of this content: “In order to encourage the transfer by the owners of their vehicles of environmentally sound biofuels and partially offset their cost of refurbishing motor vehicles for the next five years from the date of transport of biofuels in the form of a 50 per cent reduction in the amount of payment of the transport assembly in the course of technical inspection.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u55	Thank you. The point is that the deadline from the first to the second reading of the amendment was 27 April. On May 12, the Committee had already considered all the amendments. April. April 24th. Then it's a matter for the secretariat. Everything that's been published is completely accounted for here. I'd like you and I to have a look at the department. And there's no other way out of this than to amend the law or the law, because it's a pretty interesting idea, but there's no such amendment. All of them were listed here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u56	I will not challenge Deputy Falco's proposal, but the point is that the congregation foresees a slightly different goal, a different goal. And in this case, by introducing production and consumption of biofuels, the state forces everyone to do so. If we don't force it, it won't be biofuel. You can see for yourself who is taking the stand against it. And by the way, that's exactly the way other states work -- Argentina, Brazil, Germany, other countries. So I would like us to consider this situation and not create conditions that seem to lure motorists. He has to do it, he has to do it. Producers are encouraged, and consumers in general are encouraged to do so, no matter how much the price goes down. I would ask that we support the project that is being proposed. I am again addressing the authors of the amendments. Any suggestions? None. Can I put it to a vote? In general, the bill, registration number 3158, on the development of production and consumption of biofuels, deals with voting. Please, I beg you to uphold this law. [[11:49:00]] For the 250. I am grateful to everyone that we have adopted an extremely important law that will in time have a strategic impact on economic development and the liberation of Ukraine from energy dependence. Thank you all. The issue of the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of decisions of the draft Law on certain measures to ensure public order in Ukraine is now being considered. The project was prepared by Bulba, registration number 3375. I put him to the vote. About inclusion and consideration. [[11:49:48]] For 253 Stepan Stepanovich, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u57	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I am introducing a draft Ukrainian Law on certain measures to ensure public order in Ukraine into your consideration. What calls for the adoption of this law in my opinion. Let's think about the total number of military formations that, according to Ukraine's existing laws, among other tasks, a defined function of public order protection has long been more than the number of Ukrainian Armed Forces appointed to ensure the country's sovereignty and territorial integrity. This indicates that Ukraine is becoming a police state when the leaders of the state consider internal threats to be more real than external threats. Under these conditions, it would seem that there can be no problem with ensuring the safety of our people. Realisms, however, show that this is far from the point where the situation even worsens, especially during mass action, when the various departments, following the direction of their leaders, try to influence the citizens involved. The lack of clear coordination of law enforcement, the lack of the necessary professional preparation for the special composition of structures for which public order is not a core function, leads to negative and sometimes dangerous consequences. Examples like this, I think, are enough. And it goes like that saying: “There are seven babysitters, a child without an eye!” So this bill is designed to ensure that the rule of law and the rule of law in society and to prevent the possible use of military formations for their inequitable functions. The draft law provides that public order will be carried out exclusively by the Public Security Police Department. The project also provides that this law will not be applied under special periods or states of emergency. In view of the fact that a number of laws in Ukraine contain the possibility of applying those bodies to ensure public order, the bill also provides that the legal acts adopted to take effect by this law are in force in a part which is not contrary to the law. The law is small and let me read it. Ukraine's Law on certain measures to ensure public order in the country. With a view to ensuring the rule of law and public order in the country, the Supreme Council decides: Article 1. To establish that public order is carried out exclusively by the Department of Internal Affairs of Ukraine’s Public Security. Article 2. Banning involvement in public order measures by the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations, and other law enforcement units. Article 3. Ending Positions. First. This law takes effect from the day of its publication. The other one. This law is not applied in a special period or state of emergency. Third. The legal acts adopted to enter into force by this law are in force in a part that is not contrary to the law in question. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional funds from the state budget. The adoption of the bill will enable the rule of law and the rule of law in society and prevent the possible use in the interests of certain political forces, and not just the political forces, the activities of military formations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u58	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u60	From the committee is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Gusarov Sergiy Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to an explanatory note, the author’s intention to prevent the illegal use of military formations was solely directed to the draft Ukrainian Law on Certain Public Order Measures in Ukraine. But the other consequences of the adoption of this law remained to his attention. Under the second article of the Ukrainian Act on Internal Forces, the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the role of participation in public order is one of the main tasks of the internal forces, without which these forces will simply become another security structure. We do not have the right to allow this to happen for such reasons: it is impossible to ensure public order during mass action without the involvement of members of the internal forces. The number of public security police is too small for this. In the event of group violations, the more mass disturbances, the more effective the use of internal forces is -- this is due to their high resilience and mobility. The use of such a reliable tool to ensure public order under difficult conditions, such as internal forces, does not require significant budget spending. The placing of public order solely on the Public Security Unit of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine puts the task ahead of its departments. Because the Ukrainian Police Act rules are being repealed, allowing other representatives of internal affairs bodies, members of the army and the criminal enforcement system to be involved in the protection of the public order. The Ukrainian Act on the involvement of citizens in the protection of public order, the state border, has virtually ceased to be in force, under which civil order protection can also be carried out. There is no sense of special law enforcement for the Ukrainian Armed Forces, which, on the basis of the Ukrainian Military Service Act, participates in the provision of public order among military personnel in locations of military forces, in military towns, in the streets and in public places. Moreover, legislation has already imposed bans on Ukraine’s Armed Forces and other military formations that do not function, and their reassurance is unnecessary. All of this was taken into account by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the higher education institutions of Ukraine, who unanimously did not approve of the bill sent to them for study. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends rejecting the project as a result of the first reading. Following the presentation, the Committee approved the decision to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to reject the draft Law on certain measures to ensure public order in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u62	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sergey Mikolaiovich, I have a question for you. In my opinion, it may be necessary to adopt such a law, but I have doubts that we should adopt a law with two sentences. It would be better to make changes to existing laws, such as the Police Act or the Internal Forces Act, where it is said to fit more. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u63	It really needs to make changes to both the Law and the Militia and the internal forces, which is the question of and the interests of the internal forces, and the IMF as a whole, the IMF system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u64	That is, those laws could be. Yeah?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u65	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u66	Okay. Bogchuk, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u67	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I support Stephen Bulby's project, and I think we need to adopt this bill at least on the first reading. Today we do not have enough legislation to ensure public order in Ukraine. As we know, the last of the conflicts that took place in May and the President's decree to re-arrange internal forces actually led internal forces out of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. They took action outside the legal field because there is the Law on the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. There are no such armies today. They had previously been governed by this law, what legislative acts are now governed by internal forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u68	I take it that the internal forces are the structure of the internal affairs system. And what is a valid or invalid presidential decree is another matter. The president could have arranged for himself and the IMF as a whole, and the Cabinet of Ministers, that's his business. I think that whatever the situation is in the state, we should not rush legislation and leave the organs and units that are created and that are dealing with it and have been doing it all the time. So this is a temporary situation that has arisen and we should not destroy the internal forces that I have already explained to you in my report, fellow MPs, that these armies are mobile, combative, and they are very effective in addressing matters of public order. We don't have a lot of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u69	Forty thousand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u70	30, there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u71	30? Well, they called it 40 grand on TV yesterday. He's a boy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u72	I, Adam Ivanovich, would like to say that they're still dealing with security and nuclear stations and consular representations and so forth, diplomatic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u73	And protection of correctional colonies, institutions. Please, Little Man.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u74	I understand that you have prepared the law before, but this article is interesting in the newspaper “Today”. The Helette doesn't know what kind of people are being shot at. I had to write in the law whether it's 10 people, or it's 10,000.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u75	I didn't quite understand what Helletay was writing there. I didn't read the Helette article.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u76	Well, he's referring to another department. This is the Department of State Security.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u77	Well, Helletay, it works on. In another way, in another position, the internal forces have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u78	Yes. Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, 12 o'clock, I'm making an offer to finish the question without interruption. Is there no objection? Okay. Thank you. Is there a desire to discuss this bill? You don't? Then I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Certain Public Order Measures in Ukraine, registration number 3375. [[12:03:10]] For 240 Copy that. But please, I'm also going to the profile committee, really, look, in preparing for the second reading, maybe it's not a separate law, but it's going to be more logical to make changes to existing laws. Consult both the lawyers and the Legal Authority. We need to put the Meat and Meat Products Bill in order of the day. Registration number 3332. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[12:03:56]] For 245 It's on. Please, Mr. Baraniovsky Alexander Petrovich. Prepare Sulkovsky from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u79	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear National Deputies! For your consideration is the Law on Meat and Meat Products. The law is essential, as it regulates today what meat products are and how they should be produced, under what conditions. The article “Termines and their Definitions” clearly defines what production certification is, what are the commonly known names of meat products, what is “meat”, which is “mechanical weighting meat”. For example, “meat products” are products that make up at least fifty percent of the meat raw material. Why is such a standard written down? Because we use meat today, and there may be five percent and ten percent, or starch and other things, called meat products. There is no such thing in the world. The definition here is that at least fifty percent should be meat. The concept of meat raw materials, packaging, meat suppliers, raw materials for meat production, the natural market, and so forth is understood. I would like to point out that article 3 “State regulation of quality and safety of meat, meat and meat products ” states whether it is specifically stated that meat of the upper class is prohibited. It's the meat after the fall. All of this waste is extracted from the bone with the scrap, and it is added to the meat products of the upper class. That's why it's forbidden. Protein stabilizers are prohibited from applying, pork skins, starch, flour, flour, flour, soy products, and their derivatives, as well as food supplements. The use of carnivorous meat, protein stabilizers, pig skins, soy products, and their derivatives is prohibited. The law allows the use of mechanically collapsed meat, pig skins, starch, vegetable flour, grains, soy products and derivatives, as well as mixtures of spices that consist of food additives, provided that the total number does not exceed 30 percent of the total weight of the meat in the first class, and in particular that the meat of the mechanical weighting is up to 10 percent. In the second class, 40 percent, mechanically collapsed meat 20 percent. And the third class of 50 and the mechanical collapse is 30. Canned and semifabricated meat may be used for mechanically collapsed pig skin, starch, and so on, no more than 25 percent of the total mass, and in particular mechanically collapsed meat 10 percent. Article 4 prohibits the processing of meat and meat products for the purpose of ensuring the quality of meat and meat products from birds and other animals that go without proper veterinary documentation. It is forbidden to assign new types of meat products to popular names. Well, let's say "Krakivska" sausage. He writes "Krakowska" there plus and went to print because under "Krakowski" sausage or under another name, production goes well. It's a very different product, not what's written in its name. Meat products, with the exception of semifabricated and canned products, should also be made in order of varieties. It is forbidden to separate the process of packing meat products from the technological cycle of production. There is also that meat products are produced somewhere and then transported somewhere, and there is no indication of which line is being packed. And in this transport, you can see for yourself that this product can happen, whatever it is. Meat and meat and meat products imported into the customs territory of Ukraine are subject to mandatory control in accordance with our legislation. The sale of meat and meat products in natural markets is prohibited. Their mass. If those who organize natural markets, and they do not organize them for free, let them adhere to standards, let them legitimize the market to meet appropriate standards, so that the meat can be tested for the quality of someone, are appropriate sanitary, veterinary services. And please let them work after that. I'd like to point out, dear friends who have introduced the concept of manufacturer's attestation. Today, we have over 3,000 meat producers who process meat, who work absolutely in the living rooms, basements, wherever they go, without having any attestation, without even the proper equipment, not the specialists, and so on. Meatcombs, known as our fairly powerful businesses, must have a veterinary post, and health posts that, while held, we hope, withstand the standards of production of this product as much as possible. There's absolutely nothing there. So the question is that these -- and they have to have all the companies that have the appropriate certification to go through. That's a five-year job certificate. A list is published every six months so that consumers know who it comes from and what it comes from. They are also given today. The law provides for reagents to be carried out when the subjects are in possession, when the act of the attestation is stopped, and when the attestation is cancelled. It is also noted in article 13 that State support may be stimulated by appropriate budget support, credit and investment support that is appropriate today. But it can still be, for example, in the process of producing, storing, processing meat, and so forth. I want to tell you why this article appeared. Today, our neighbors abroad, who are in WTO countries, have an appropriate grant today, a so - called expert grant for their processors. This is not, for example, a mandatory norm that is clearly in place today. But in any case, the law provides for, gives the government the opportunity to make such investments, such appropriate allowances. My point is, dear friends, that this law takes effect, it has been written in its final positions since its publication. At the same time, the subject is given a year’s time to carry out appropriate certifications and to bring his documentation into line with this law. I'd like to say one more thing. There is the conclusion of the Executive Board. It surprises me. Such a law has already been passed by us in the past. Regrettably, they found a clue, well, which is why it was written that meat could be processed if it was damaged. And that was the reason for the veto. I mean, there were a lot of walkers that didn't have this law today. You realize he's in some people's way. And that's why the expert board's conclusion in the past law was positive, and the same law was only a vacuumed, one-stopped paragraph -- already negative today. And that's why it's incomprehensible to me. So I asked you, honourable national deputies, to adopt this law in the first reading, and then all of you, who will be your comments, to take them into account, to be processed and adopted as a law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u80	Are there any questions? Sign up. Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u81	Hellfire, faction of regions, Zaporozhye. I thank you for your meticulous report, and I know you as a professional. The only thing I'm embarrassed about is small and medium-sized business. We often try to protect ourselves, just to destroy small and medium-sized businesses, and to beat the big producer, the monopolies. In this regard, I am interested in the extent to which this document is satisfied to what extent it is agreed with the authorities, with entrepreneurs, to what extent this law will enable small and medium-sized businesses to develop?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u82	Thank you for asking. I would like to remind you that when there were certain laws about the production of alcoholic beverages, we all had a standard, let's say the price of the license was 500,000 dollars. Please tell me if a small business can buy such a license when it has absolutely different, so to speak, turnover, as they say, financial, so that it can buy it. And they. This, of course, was intended for the destruction of small business. There is absolutely no distinction in this law between big and small business. They're all in equal conditions. And let's say that the company's certification is going to be, let's say, if it's going to be, there, it's going to cost, the Cabinet of Ministers is going to install, provided I say, 30 bracelets, it's going to be set up for all 30 bracelets, and no more, because it's a product of non-taxable goods. It's the only thing that respectable friends do: mass poisoning is going on today. And today, the medium, small business is usually quite the kind of people, well, most of them are responsible. And their production meets all the standards. But there's one next to him for 20 of these good-natured people -- and believe me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u83	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u84	Thank you. Dear Alexander Petrovich, in fact, your bill may allow you to deal in some way with the issue of the quality and safety of meat, the raw material of meat and meat products, especially in our opinion, to do everything possible to ensure the safe consumption of these products. However, in your opinion, especially in article three, “State regulation of quality and safety indicators for meat, raw meat and meat products” – you have only raised the issue of literally regulating quality indicators. Still, perhaps we should go further in matters of state regulation in this area as a whole? That is to open up principles, regulators and their functions. That would be it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u85	Thank you for asking. I would ask you, my dear colleague, if you would, well, give your thoughts and necessarily give them a second reading of them, I hope that all MPs will take part -- and we will, in fact, make it much better, more meaningful than it is today in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u86	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u87	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Alexander Petrovich, I support and support this bill. I believe that we really need to address the quality and safety of meat and meat and meat products. But today, after reading the law, I see an unresolved issue that I think is too important today, the implementation of meat products by individuals, those meat products that are produced in the private sector, and today more than 50 percent of all meat products are produced there. And in more detail, I think we need to settle the issue of meat storage and transportation and meat products, because often our people take it, who's on the wire, who's in bags, who's on open cars, and so on. This question is not settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u88	It's about transportation. Thank you for asking. With regard to the transportation of meat and meat products, the law in this case prescribes this norm and it is. As far as natural markets are concerned, I've also said that the law stipulates that you can't sell products in natural markets, and it forbids them. And those markets that are today, they're so called natural, it's the owners of this law that makes them bring them to the right standards, so that there's refrigeration cells there, so that there's some little lab there to be a veterinary or a sanitary, sanitation worker. That's the law. Allows it to be brought into the reference norms. The Law also provides that the raw material that comes from either a large producer or from the courtyard should be accompanied by the necessary veterinary information on the raw material. Let's say where the individual man sells his products, or if it's in the natural market, it's written, if it's in other places, we still have legislation regarding sanitary, veterinary. If there are any other suggestions. What needs to be done more, improved, made suggestions, and discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u89	Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u90	Thank you. Alexander Petrovich, please tell me two questions. The first concerns the social consequences of the bill and the second relates to quality. To what extent do you think your bill will help protect a domestic meat producer? Because you know me better and better, Ukraine has been trying, trying and trying to turn it into a raw commodity for the meat processing companies of Europe. That's the first question. And secondly, you know there's a series of laws, in this explanatory note you refer to them, by the way. There are a number of laws that regulate food security, including meat products, even an article in the Criminal Code. But you do have an article five, please look. It says that meat and meat are to be disposed of, disposed of, and destroyed. Quite right and wise, but on whose account? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u91	Regarding the protection of our manufacturer. The law provides that meat products, the raw material that comes after importation, are all required, so to speak, to be tested accordingly. Because they are extremely dangerous products, both fish and meat. And all the countries are doing it. Even though you know we've tried to get away from it, and eat up to anything, because we're Ukrainians. So it's a social consequence. First of all, we're improving the quality of our production. People will know, even though they are already eating and will realize that if they buy third - class products, they know that there are up to 50 percent of any additives in the product, not just meat. If he buys high - quality products, according to the solution, he knows that 100 percent is made of meat and so on. So in social terms, I think there'll be less of these poisonings. We continue the lives of our people, less money will be spent on treatment after the food they eat, and more money will be spent on appropriate foods of quality. And relative.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u92	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u93	And regarding the fifth article. As to which account. Well, today this product, which is being removed, is unfortunately falling to the state. It's done by vets, these vets, and it goes there. It is made up of cartilage, bone flour, or meat flour for supplements, and so forth. It is not usually at the expense of the one who made it. By the way, I support your opinion that it would be good for them to rework at the expense of someone who gave it to you. Let's make some suggestions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u94	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Member of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sulkovský Pavel Gnatovic We have the opportunity to see all of this from the hall, heard a voice. Please, Paul Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u95	Oleg and Jaroslav can do anything. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I would like to go to a specific draft law I want to say the problem in this issue is indeed, and it has long been unregulated by many laws concerning the production and processing of dairy meat. And so a similar bill, the law was passed by the Supreme Council a year ago, but the veto was imposed by the President. Because many businessmen who are not working honestly, not conscientiously, and the analysis shows to this day, literally watching, you've also heard on TV, especially at my family's level, in the area, in other areas, the poisoning of children in schools, kindergartens, and so on. And so it's clear that the effect was not simple, and this law, which was passed by Parliament, was vetoed. Unfortunately, we couldn't handle it, because you know very well, because it took 301 votes. So today, we have to thank the authors, particularly Alexander Baraniwski, who has already made and changed, who has redrafted some of the laws on which the President's veto has been imposed. And much has been done, added to this new bill that we are considering today. The purpose and purpose of the adoption of the bill. First, the adoption of the bill regulates the quality and safety of meat, meat, and meat products. It addresses the issue of banning the processing of farmed or wild animals, birds, untested farm subjects, which unfortunately is allowed in Ukraine today. The bill will determine organizational principles for the processing, packaging, storage, and implementation of meat, meat, and meat products. The legal framework in this area of legal settlement of the problem, legislation in Ukraine in the area of meat production and implementation, and meat products consists of laws in Ukraine: State support for agriculture in Ukraine, quality and safety of food and food raw materials, health and epidemiological welfare of the population, veterinary medicine, consumer protection, standardization, confirmation of conformity and other legal instruments. The implementation of this bill, changes to other laws, is practically unnecessary. On the contrary, it adds to this entire legislative base that exists in Ukraine and will regulate the gaps that are currently being allowed in this situation. Prognosis of socio-economic and other consequences, adoption of the act, where questions were asked by my colleague Jaroslav Suhi. The introduction of the law will help to stabilize the incomes of meat producers and meat products, support the social standard of life of the rural population, particularly in areas such as the creation of new jobs, the development of social infrastructure in rural areas, will also increase Ukraine’s State budget. And that's why you're also giving a surprise today, the conclusion given to us by the Chief Executive of Parliament. I think we can agree that at the committee meeting, this bill was rejected, sent for further work. Why? For one reason only, because the author was simply absent from the committee meeting. So I call, after consulting my committee members, after consulting us today, and we are still making a proposal, not as a committee decision, but as national deputies and committee members in most agrarians, to support it in the first reading, and to take into account all the amendments and additions, and to accept it as a full law for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u96	Thank you, sit down, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? But no, we have specialists from all kinds of questions. Please sign up. From the faction. Yes, individually, who else would? Please, Bogchuk Vasil from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u97	Vasil Bogchuk. A socialist party. Ternopil. I support the bill, regardless of the committee's opinion that this bill should be rejected. Even strangely, we Ukrainians, whose diet is largely made up of meat and meat, yet we do not have a law that regulates this important course of food and food. How many anecdotes are walking around the world today about what our sausage is made up of, for example? And these are all extremely important components of the nation's food security. What do you think about how much protein stabilizers, starch, vegetable flour, soy and its derivatives can be found in sausages? This should be settled, I believe, by the bill, on meat and meat products. Recall, for example, how early in 2006 Russia blocked the supply of dairy, meat products, inspected our manufacturing enterprises, how many shortcomings were found, how many omissions we had practically closed our eyes on, and slowed down with their solutions. I think that the adoption of this bill will make it possible to significantly improve the quality of our products. This is very important from this point of view, which is the prospect that perhaps this year Ukraine should become a member of the World Trade Organization. It is simply not possible to regulate the domestic national standards of meat and meat production, without the availability of the law. From my point of view, the adoption of the bill should regulate legislatively the quality and safety of meat, meat, and meat products. It regulates the issue of banning the processing of farmed or wild animals by farmed or farmed subjects, birds from untested subjects. The draft Law will determine organizational principles for the processing, packaging, storage, and implementation of meat, meat, and meat products. And all of these remarks, I think we need somewhere to take into account, work on, and second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u98	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich. An interesting conclusion was made that meat and meat products are a major product of ours. It's probably in the Ternopil region, isn't it? Because something in Ukraine is far from that. The discussion is over, and I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill 3332, the Meat and Meat Products Act. Please vote. [[12:29:53]] For the 250. Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to include in the agenda and consider the draft Ordinance on the Establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the question of the conditions for the adoption by the Council of Judges of Ukraine of a decision on the appointment of judges for administrative posts and their dismissal from these posts. Registration number 3657. Please vote. [[12:30:33]] For 253 Decision taken. Please, Androsov Sergey Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u99	The honourable chairman, the honourable colleagues, we see that in recent times in the judicial branch of power, the appointment and release of judges may not be accepted only by lazy ones. Thus, on May 31, 2007, the Council of Judges in Ukraine made a decision that effectively gave it the authority to decide whether judges should be appointed to administrative offices in the courts of general jurisdiction and to dismiss them. On 31 May and 1 June of this year, the Council of Judges of Ukraine appointed more than one hundred heads, deputy heads, judges of general jurisdiction, in violation of section 2 of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, although on 16 May of this year the Constitutional Court of Ukraine ruled on the constitutional application of the Supreme Council of Justice and there is an official interpretation of who has the right to appoint and release judges of general jurisdiction. It should be noted that section 1 of article 103 of the Law on Sudokustruding contains an exclusive list of the powers of the Council of Judges of Ukraine as an organ of judicial self - government. These powers do not include the appointment and release of judges. Therefore, as a group of national deputies, we propose a Supreme Council decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to determine the conditions for the adoption by the Council of Judges of Ukraine of the decision to appoint judges for administrative posts and their dismissal. This decision is in hand. Do you need to read it? Is there no need to read it? I would like to support you in this regard.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u100	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich, and I'm sorry I added a few letters to your last name. Come on. Are there any questions? None. I have a question. You're saying that after the Council of Judges passed an illegal ruling, they've already appointed 100 judges to the administrative office, and the President is appointing. So they're both assigning? Because the President's orders almost come out of this every day.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u101	Yes, there are decrees, and that's why the question arose to form a commission of inquiry. The Supreme Council is the highest legislative body in the country and it is clear on who is entitled.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u102	Thank you, Sergey Alexanderovich. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as far as I have been informed, even the committees of profile and legal policy have considered it, on the issue of justice and the Main Committee, which is in the establishment of the interim joint committees of the Rules Committee. I mean, there was a committee discussion. And I'm paying attention, my dear colleagues, to the fact that we're giving a fairly tight term to the TSC, a rather tight term, which, not later than 10 days later, and if it's necessary not later than 30 days to report on this situation, because really, the question is pretty serious. I would like to take those committee members into account, and the head of the committee is invited to choose the national deputy Zvarič Igor Theodorovitch, deputy to Gnatenko Lviv Mikolaiovich. I mean, I'd ask the members of the commission to do the task that we're about to give them. A bill of 3657 on the establishment of a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council to determine the conditions for the adoption by the Council of Judges of Ukraine of a decision on the appointment of judges for administrative posts and their dismissal from those positions is put to the vote. Please vote. [[12:34:56]] For 251 Although 150 votes were enough. It's been decided. My fellow Members, we should have once again considered the bill of colleague Onischuk to amend the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax from Natural Persons, but given that we have now in fact recognized that colleague Onischuk is no longer our colleague, i.e. he is not a deputy. That's why we don't have a chance to look at it either. That's one thing. And the others. He's not in the hall. So the situation was clear. Let us move on to the most interesting and desirable for the national MPs on Friday - the “Variable”. Please, who wants to make a statement? Bogchuk, sign up! For once again you ask for the word. This, Paul Gnatovich, you have a serious rival, a competitor in the number of performances. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Please, Bogchuk, please. The bulls are getting ready. Are you still handing over? It means Bogchuk has six minutes. Please. Wheelchair's ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u103	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! The parable in the tongues is that things are getting worse, and they are becoming unscrupulous in the Ternopil Combin factory. At the beginning of this year, when the debt of unpaid wages reached unimaginable heights, people who have been working for months virtually free couldn't bear the abuse and came out with simple slogans on the street. The district attorney’s office was then forced to take care of an unprincipled business manager. But a few decades later, he was released into prison in a hundred thousand dollars. On this, we can see that huge funds were found in one moment. And since then, the situation has hardly changed. The administration of the enterprise, which is part of the unfortunate lysing company Kragromashinvest, whose reputation is well known in Ukraine, continues to delay payment of wages. Moreover, it has begun a lawsuit against a trade union committee that upholds the legal requirements of people to get paid for their work. As it may sound absurd, the management of the combined labour force in defending its rights is viewed as illegal by the court to prohibit the trade union committee from defending the interests of the common people. First of all, the fact is that the unions have opposed the dismissal of two workers, activists of the wage movement. And now the administration has put together a new list of 84 people to get out of work. All of this cannot be described as an open attack on the rights of working ordinary people. The one on the side of a company that has foreign investments, and it puts first the task of getting benefits, as you can see at any cost. In fact, it is because of the deterioration of the lives of the employees of the company that the administration of the Ternopil Combin factory is fighting a real war by evicting from former workers’ homes and their families, literally, under the open sky. A compromise seems to have been found. By transferring the assets of the Open Shareholder Society, the Ternopil Combin Factory to the Ternopil City Council balance. To legalize the housing of citizens who have lived in former hostels for decades, long - awaited warrants have finally been issued to them. That was the question that should have been considered by the shareholders ’ congregations. The city’s head, Ternopolis, of the Ukrainian State Property Fund, also visited them. However, shareholders on the part of the owners of the control pack, i.e. the administration of the combine plant and the leasing company Ukraineinvester, deliberately allowed the collapse of the congregations, thereby confirming the existence of an ominous plan for the housing of poor workers' families. During 2006, VAT leaders of the Ternopil Combin Factory also carried out a number of fictitious weightless operations for the purchase of a rubber tooth band of the VAT-lifting company Krakragromashinvester at the sum of 4 million 864 thousand 784 bracelets. [[The City of Kiev]] Society With Limited Responsibilities “The House of Commerce. The Ternopil Combin Factory amounts to 330,000 480 dollars and to the limited liability of Torres, the city of Dnipropetrovsk, totalling 414 thousand 375 dollars, which are shown only in the accounting documents and for which partial bills have been made by the issuance of a total of about 5 million dollars and the amount of creditors' debt. [[The city of Bila Church]] In fact, in the course of the above-mentioned effective operations with counterparties, the inside movement of the rubber tooth band, located in the factory area since 1990, was carried out. However, according to the accounting of VAT of the Ternopil Combin Factory, it is billed as received from the specified counterparties on fictitious expenses and tax notes. As a result of the operations, VAT “Ternopil Combin Factory” was effectively indebted to the above-mentioned business entities for a sum of 5 million 609 thousand 643 bracelets. This debt was created by the managers of the VAT “Ternopil Combin Factory” in the interests of the Constitutional Court of the VAT board of the lysing company Krakragromashinvest, which has the control package of the combine plant and is subsequently illegally implemented by another legal person. The second time this year, I'm trying to draw the attention of the leadership of the state to the situation at the Ternopil Combin factory. This is a banal raid on the common people whose business owners are trying to twist into the ram’s horn, make it a dry tool for making profits. Surprisingly, in the midst of a white - day robbery, the district government does not side with the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Vadim's chariot, please. After him is Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters of our famous Ukraine. Every day brings us further facts that confirm that a citizen of Yushchenko deliberately, deliberately and cynically destroys our State and, above all, its legal system. It is not enough that Mr. Yushchenko ignores the existing legislation and the Constitution, that he destroys the Constitutional Court, that he refuses to execute the Constitutional Court's decision, which has been binding since the announcement for execution throughout the territory of our State. Another example is that despite the court's decision of 15 May that the President did not have the right to appoint judges to administrative posts. Yushchenko is cynically and abruptly issuing successive decrees, primarily by substituting those whom he appoints, and, secondly, showing that he is ignoring the law and that he is likely to have such an ego in particular that he is embodying the entire law of the Ukrainian State. I therefore appeal to the people of Ukraine and to the people concerned to understand that the people appointed by the President after the Constitutional Court's decision to take administrative office are not entitled to take office. By presidential decree of 21 May, Mr. Fedorov was appointed President of the Zaporozhye Court of Appeal. It's illegal. Mr. Sokolenko was appointed President of the Poltav District Administrative Court. It's illegal. Gothic(?) Vasili Ivanović is Vice-President of the Yavoriv District Court of Lviv Region. It's illegal. On 1 June, the President reissues another anti-constitutional decree, which once again grossly and cynically violates the Constitution and spits in the face of the justice system. By its decree of 1 June, he appoints the Vice-President of the Economic Court of the Volin Region of Pohaluk, the Vice-President of the Economic Court of Dnepropetrov Region of Žukov and the Comshu, the Deputy President of the Economic Court of the Provincial Region of Savčekno, the Vice-President of the Commercial Court of Ternopol Region of Stopnik, the Vice-President of the Economic Court of Cercas Region of Efimenko, the Vice-President of the Economic Court of the Czernovets region of Scripniczuk. I draw your attention to the fact that these persons do not have the right under the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to hold these posts, that any of their actions in these posts will be illegal, and that all the blame for the further breakdown of Ukraine's judicial system and the destruction of Ukraine's statehood lies directly with the citizen of Yushchenko. And I believe that once he has finished his presidency, we will consider bringing him to justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u106	Thank you. Just a clarification: not from the 15th, but from the 16th of May. Matthew, please, Valeria.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u107	Hello. Matthew Valeria, faction of Party of Regions. Dear Chairman, distinguished deputies, TV sets and radio audiences! I want to talk to you today about the legal divide that is taking place in our courts, namely, with regard to the Pecher District Court of Kiev. Yesterday, the Supreme Council ruled on the dismissal of Volkova Svetlana Yakovlevna, judge of the Pecher District Court of Kiev, because she violated her oath. Yesterday, the leadership of the Pecher Court made a statement that the Supreme Council had taken such a decision unlawfully. But I would like to object to this moment with the following data. Volkova Svetlana and two other judges have decided completely unconstitutional, not in accordance with existing legislation. On May 30, 2007, the Supreme Council, on the request of the Constitutional Court of 16 May, “for the appointment of executive positions, administrative positions, heads and deputy judges”, adopted a decision entitled “Temporary Order”, which, in accordance with this decision, will be recommended by the High Council of Justice for the submission and recommendations of certain subjects of the judiciary, namely: the Supreme Court of Ukraine, members of the High Council of Justice and others. Mr. Wolfe appealed the decision in court. I want to focus on the timeline. Thus, on 30 May, at 16 hours, the draft regulation was put on the agenda for 18 minutes. At 4 p.m., the deputies voted in favour of him for 50 minutes. What happens next. I think Adam Ivanovich will not let me lie: in order for the decree to be issued, the Secretariat and the Supreme Council will have to do certain things. On the same day, 30 May, at 17 hours 50 minutes, Judge Volkov was ordered to suspend the order. I would like to draw attention to the fact that payment was made on the same day at 5 p.m. 36 minutes. And in 14 minutes Mr. Volkov paid the bill, wrote a statement of claim, applied to the Pecher Court, the Pecher Court passed the order for consideration, and the President of the Court of Procedure had to implement certain procedural rules, i.e. he had to appoint a number of judges to deal with the case and so on. I'd like to ask you to extend my time, a little moment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u108	We talked about this yesterday. Well, please tell me more.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u109	Adam Ivanovich, I would like to say one more time that the leadership of the Pecher Court is looking to the European public. The European public, frankly, has nothing to do with us. Let us not forget those ordinary citizens of Ukraine, the citizens of Kiev and those who simply applied to the Pecher Court and, in principle, ceased to believe in the justice system in Ukraine. Because I want to address the head of this court. Please note that you're being court-martialed. And come on, let's pay attention to our citizens. I want to address the judges: Comrade judges, you took an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u110	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u111	Fellow judges, you have taken an oath of allegiance to Ukraine and to Ukrainian citizens, not to some particular political leader, a dean, so please perform your duties according to the oath you swore to that State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-08-m0.u112	Thank you. Well, you know, from the easy hand of our Supreme Chamber, as we call journalists, they call the Cave Court the "most humane court". It is likely that judges from all over Ukraine have been gathered in the Cave Court. The capital that there are no judges lived up to the fact that the President appointed by his decrees from the Hmelnicke district, the city of Winnitz, from other areas to the city of Kyiv. And then there's all the other attributes, the apartments, and so on and so forth. I think there's enough people who can do it, do it, do it in the capital. On the contrary, I would point from the capital to fortification in one region or another. All who wanted to speak were satisfied with their needs. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Next time we meet in the session room on Tuesday at 10 a.m. Good luck.
