ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, radio audiences, and television audiences! Today is February 9th. The MPs are preparing to register. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:03:05]] Registered -433 Ready to address questions of 433 national deputies. The morning session is open. In accordance with the Rules, we are scheduled to issue requests. I'll do it now. The Group of Deputies Kirilczuk, Karpuk and others are asking the Prime Minister for unfounded, unlawful intentions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to transfer inter-economic communal forests to the State of the Ukraine. Ms. Alexander TKAKENKA and Ms. Omelyan PARUBKA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine on the groundlessness of the adoption of the Cabinet Order of January 31 on the reorganization of the Ukrainian State Committee on Land Resources. Petra PISTARCHUKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Mikola AZAROVA, on the inclusion in the list of investment projects aimed at the socio-economic development of the region, of the issue of the allocation of funds for the capital repair of the Lviv region's housing fund. Alexander GOLUBA to Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing of Ukraine Vladimir Rybaka for the unsatisfying work of municipal enterprises in the city of Kirovgrad in the maintenance of residential buildings. Vladimir KURENNOG to the Attorney General of Ukraine on a criminal case involving the head of the Odessa District Police for failing to execute a court decision. Alexander GOLUBA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the unsatisfactory work of the prosecution authorities on the acquisition of property and the de facto destruction of the home of a citizen of Portianska V.D. in Kiev. Peter GASJUKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the adoption of measures to eliminate the self - occupied areas of the water park and return to the municipal property of M. Sevastopol. Tarasa ČORNOVOLA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the illegal privatization and protection of property rights of the State educational institution. Mr. Mikhail VOLINZA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on dissatisfaction with the reply to the MP's request and on the violation of the requirements of labour law regarding the registration of a professional organisation by the administration of the Kharkiv State University of Art, I.P. Kotlarevski. Alexia BABURIN and Igor ALEXEYEVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the objectivity, completeness and completeness of the law enforcement authority's burden on the review of repeated claims and complaints by the Director-General of VAT “RITM” to the prosecutor's office. Alexia Feduna to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the company DiSi. EUGEN HYRNIKA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the abuse of office by officials of the Rakhiv State of Zakarpatsk. YURIA MIROSCHENKA to the Minister of Economics of Ukraine on the violation of the deadline for responding to parliamentary appeals and providing an answer is not essentially the case. Mr. Mikoli Komara to the Minister of Industrial Policy of Ukraine on the use of debt relief measures for employees of the Ministry of Labour of Costanine RBMU-4. Petra PISTARCHUCA to the Head of the State Highway Service of Ukraine regarding the allocation of funds for the reconstruction of the road along the street. Lipova Aleija in the Lviv region. Mr. Mikoli Komara is head of the National Property Fund of Ukraine for the definition of an authorized authority in the field of control of which the State Enterprise Costanine RBMU-4 belongs. The Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the College of the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, the Head of the Higher Attitude Commission on numerous violations of Ukrainian legislation by the Rector of the private higher education institute of the Institute of Economics and Entrepreneurship, Professor Bilous Olga Stepanovna, including corruption and falsification of data for licensing and accreditation, compilation of scientific research, politicalization of the higher educational institution in general. [[m. Ternopil]] And the same deputy to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Freedom of Speech and Information, the Attorney-General of Ukraine on the systematic violation of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, refusing to publish the materials of the National MP in the media, the founders of which are the authorities of the State and the local government of Ternopolska. [[a member of the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[on the responsibility of the founders mentioned and on the facts of censorship]] Honourable deputies, two factions – the Party of the Regions and the faction of Communists ask for either a recess or an opportunity to express their position with a statement. I think it's more rational to give them an opportunity to make a statement than to take a break. That's why I'm giving the floor to Acid. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u2	Respectable compatriots! On Tuesday, 6 February, we all witnessed when, instead of the solemn opening of the third session of the fifth session, the opposition blocked the Ukrainian Supreme Council Presidency and rostrum, protesting the alleged establishment of a gas transport consortium with the Russian Federation, which they believe will be followed by the privatisation of the Ukrainian national gas transport system. The entire anti-crisis coalition supported the proposal to amend the Law on Pipeline Transport, which, although already provided for in the legislation in force, is prohibited from privatizing, transferring to the concession and so on our gas transport system. And now I'm going to show you copies of a few documents that will allow you to figure out who is who. I have in my hands a notarized copy of the document of 14 November 2005 in the possession of Prime Minister Ehanurov on the establishment, attention, of a society with limited responsibility, the International Consortium for the Management and Development of the Ukrainian Gas Transport System. The company is registered as a lawyer and a taxpayer. The founders are NAC Naftegaz Ukraine and Gazprom of the Russian Federation. The Constituent Assembly was preceded by serious preparatory work, in March 2005, in the household of Prime Minister Ehanurov and in August 2005, when the Prime Minister was Timoshenko, two more documents, as confirmed by the documents. We also have documents that show that the secretariat of the President of Ukraine and the Embassy of Ukraine in the Russian Federation are currently negotiating today, here is the package of documents. But since the documents have the “Secretary” charter, we have no right to publish them and we will not have them until now. Moreover, when we had the documents, we were not going to raise the subject because we understood that it was not privatization, but merely the mutually beneficial use of our gas transport system. Because we understand that our gas transport system can become a scrap metal dog if the Russian Federation builds a pipeline around Ukraine or reduces the flow of hydrocarbons through Ukraine. With regard to the reasons for the sharp rise in gas and electricity prices in 2006, and, as a result, the rise in housing tariffs, we have two more documents to demonstrate. First. A copy of the document of 9 August 2004, the implementation of contracts between Naftegaz Ukraine and Gazprom in the household when Prime Minister Januković was Prime Minister. The contract envisaged that between 2005 and 2009, the price of gas delivered to Ukraine was set at $50 per thousand cubic metres. The price is not subject to change by the parties. And the second document, dated 23 August 2005, in the home of Prime Minister Timoshenko, from which it follows that, following negotiations with the Gaza Strip, the Russian Federation, Naftegaz Ukraine, proposed that the question of the early dissolution of the same treaty supplement should be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u4	Thank you. Disengagement of the contract to the same contract and transfer to monetary form of account. Ukraine then began to receive gas at 95 and then $130 per thousand cubic metres. But, you know, we were offered 230. And thanks to the actions of Janukovic, we have 130 today. Now, I think you understand why the Government of Ehanurov had to raise 2.5 times in March in 2006 and then 1.7 times the price of gas and electricity in June. And from that price, there is a price for renters. So the Government of Yanukovic is not involved in increasing the cost of gas and electricity. And the last. That is why, on Tuesday, 6 February, at 9 a.m., I registered a draft on the establishment of a parliamentary commission to name who is specifically responsible for the dissolution of the gas contract with Russia and the increase in tariffs on the JCC. That is why I actively support the consideration of draft regulation 2640 proposed by colleague Kravchenko and the legality of cancelling the debt of ESOs in the amount of 7.5 billion, as well as the financial and economic activities of the gas-resource consortium, the founder of which is the same ESO firm. In my view, if there is a forgery of financial documents in the criminal case, the closure of this criminal case is highly questionable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u5	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u6	And in conclusion. We call on the opposition to reject populism and to work constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u7	I'm making remarks to Vasil Alexiyovich because he's out of time. You'll get the full time for the performance, don't worry. The two factions “Our Ukraine and the“ Block of Timoshenko ” ask for breaks. A half - hour break is announced, and then you will speak with a reply after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u8	Two factions asked for a half hour break, and they took advantage of this time, and they want to know what the reason is. Since Vasyl Kiselov had performed from two factions and used 4 minutes for 30 seconds before that, Julia Volodymyrni is given the same. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u9	Julia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues! Today, with the insistence of our faction at the opening of the next session, we have placed one of the most important issues in the agenda of this week for people today -- this is a question of a tariff crisis that has practically swept over Ukraine. Today, tariffs have been raised from two to four times in various areas, areas, and cities. And in fact, our faction has gathered all the statistics, and today we see that people are not coping with such payments that the ruined family budgets, the ruined local budgets and the virtually non-payment crisis after the tariff crisis is becoming a reality in our country. And that's why we insisted that today's first question be addressed with the adoption of the Housing Services Act, which is essentially helping people today to deal with this tariff crisis created by the authorities. Unfortunately, this is the most important question for society today, however, that is the last question that is put into the agenda and, in addition, the summary. That is so that there will be neither discussion nor logical decision - making. The first questions today are the retraining of officials: the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the battle between politicians. And everything that applies to people today is in the last place and, virtually, without time. This suggests that today the priorities of the majority in parliament are not at all those that are concerned about the country today. And when we heard a statement today from an anti-crisis coalition from the rostrum, we heard a vague proposal, how to get out of this crisis, not a clear strategy, how to help people in this trouble today, and how to stop the abuse of tariffs on every family in Ukraine. And we've heard completely unprofessional excuses, why they're incapable of doing it so they don't pick up the word. Incompetence for men is bad quality, good friends. If you are not able to do so, do not look for documents in the past; do not look for seals and signatures. When I was Prime Minister, the tariffs were stable, four times lower than today, and the price of 50 dollars of gas. As the men came in, twice the price of gas, then another 45 percent, and four times the tariffs. Incompetents, leave the cabinets and go rest! And that's why, today we insist that tariff issues be dealt with in full procedure and that we have the opportunity to offer a constructive solution as a standoff. And besides, I want to inform society right now about how even if you're in opposition, how even if you don't have the authority or the majority, you can solve the issues and give the result. It's number one. All the culinary and shadow schemes in our gas transport system are closed today. The law is passed. Our gas transport system is now fully secure. And what's on TV is that there are certain authorities, that it's that law, or not that law, but we don't care what you say. The law is adopted and the gas transport system is intact. And we're not interested in all of your TV chats. Next. Yesterday, as an opposition, we won a unique victory in Kievrad, where we in the minority, where the Party of Regions and Montenegro created the majority and raised the tariffs three and a half times, yesterday we made a legitimate decision by the council, Kyivrada, forcing the mayor and the Party of Regions to vote for the reduction of tariffs twice for all housing and utilities services and plus one and a half times for the heat. It is a victory that has forced the authorities to count everything that they have not counted objectively and incorrectly and to return to the people everything they have paid since the beginning of the year. It is today’s law that we insist on adopting in the first, second, and last reading that will enable us to expand this work throughout the country. And as you vote for this bill, we're going to look closely at the anti-crisis coalition. And you've got a crisis to create in the country for a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u10	Consider the two factions. This was an explanation of the reasons for the interruption. We've lost half an hour, we have to say in vain and the characteristics of the law of what's adopted here, I won't do, just like the order of the day today. Absolutely according to the procedure, to the regulatory procedure, a plan for today. There are objections to the first reading of this issue, and by full procedure, well, we will consider it today. By full procedure, but it is one way or another, for it was supposed to give space to work on it by accepting it in the first reading. It may be accepted in the first reading, so I understand it so that it can be worked on. To say that he's solving all the issues today, all the tariff problems or whatever, we've been picking up the subject for the tenth year and it turns out it's more complicated than it seems. So there are no simple decisions here, we will make, we will consider as provided by the Rules. With regard to daytime issues, I'd like to ask your permission, since we've lost time, until the first hour today only work is going on, and I'd ask you to keep working. First question. We have a preliminary report from the Temporary Investigation Commission on the investigation of the violation of the rights of national deputies, and the head of the commission, National Deputy Skin, suggests that this issue be referred again. I make a proposal in accordance with article 82, paragraph 8, of the Rules in the event that the interim commission of inquiry does not submit a report to the Supreme Council to determine the term of office of the commission is considered to be terminated. We spent three months on the previous report, no report came in, apparently the national MPs are ineffective or what. I'm voting on a motion to suspend the commission. That's right, I'm announcing it's not a vote. Yeah. This commission ceased to exist. Next question. Draft Act on Amendments to Ukrainian Laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on Local Government Administrations. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u11	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. A bill amending Ukraine's laws on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and on local government administrations has been drafted to improve separate procedures for the formation of government, the organization of its interaction with the President and local government administrations. The bill takes into account the positions expressed by the President of Ukraine regarding the individual provisions of the Law on Cabinet of Ministers and aims to better resolve the most important relations between the highest authorities in Ukraine. I'll briefly stop at the main positions: First. The bill provides for the release from office of the Minister of Defence of Ukraine and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine at the request of the President of Ukraine. This is the president's third amendment. It's counted. The other one. If this bill is adopted, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will have the right to delegate its individual powers to other executive authorities only in cases and in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. This is the President's fourth amendment. Third. The bill provides for the appointment and discharge of deputy ministers for the appointment of ministers, candidates for the Ukrainian Defence Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs, to be appointed after consulting the relevant minister with the President of Ukraine. It is proposed to exclude the provisions of the current law on the Cabinet of Ministers on the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine agrees with the candidates of the deputy heads of the local government administrations who exercise their powers in the areas of the recognition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This is the President's sixth amendment. It is proposed to strengthen the position that the acts of local government administrations issued by them for the exercise of powers delegated by the respective local councils cannot be revoked by the Cabinet of Ministers. Six. The draft law with editorial rights fully takes into account the President's seventh amendment. Seven. The draft fully, without editorial rights, takes into account the President's eighth amendment. And it provides for the completion of article 27 of the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Act with paragraphs 12, 13 and 14. The Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations proposes to amend the appointment of deputy heads of state administration. Dear colleagues, the motivations of the authors of the law are simple: to remove the artificially created emotional opposition of the political forces, as well as the Secretary of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers, and to bring the debate out of the area of mutual accusations to constructive cooperation. We worked as legal professionals and responsible politicians. In fact, all the President's proposals were taken into account, except for two. Each faction has a comparative table that I've prepared, where our motivations are fully explained. I call for our bill to be supported in the first reading and in general as a law, by removing the tension that has now arisen in Ukrainian politics and society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u12	Is there a question? You don't? Is it? Please sign up. We used to do six minutes, didn't we? I mean, questions. Do you want 10? Okay, 10 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u13	I think it's a faction of socialists. Mr. Yuri, please tell us that the President is being brought before the Constitutional Court, which is being challenged by some sensitive, mildly speaking, position in this law. Is there a need for us to now come to the conclusion of the Constitutional Court to return to these discussion issues? In my opinion, it was appropriate until an agreement was reached to remove all of the geraciousness, find an agreed position, and make changes and additions to the law. I mean, do we need to do this now that there's a presidential application to the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u14	Thank you, Mr. Jaroslav. I believe there is such a need. Such a need is urgent, since it is not about the legal plane under which the Constitutional Court will consider this Act on the Cabinet of Ministers, but about the political one. And it's in a political sense that we can work together. Between the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, we need to adopt this bill and thus perhaps some of the positions that are being challenged, including in the Constitutional Court, will be withdrawn. We need to work together now. It's still a constitutional law, and we're going to adopt it anyway.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u15	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear reporter! We have a lot of comments and questions to ask you, but I would like to make one point in connection with your presentation. So did the President propose to withdraw the right of interlocutors to a collegiate body, the Cabinet of Ministers, and hand them over personally to the Prime Minister? Is that how you convey the president's remarks? Please tell me, is this a democracy when the Prime Minister himself will now be running for office in the local government instead of a collegiate body? And the second. Please tell me, what did you mean when you suggested that members of the Cabinet make an oath, not before taking office, but long after taking office and after appointment? This comes out of your text as if you weren't shaking your head. As qualified lawyers, as you just said, where is your qualifications?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Yuri, for we have discussed this with you at the committee meeting. It seemed to me that I had given an exhaustive answer to these questions. I can quote the editorial that we propose to introduce to the Law on Local Government Administrations, and it's not just the Prime Minister, it's the ministers who agree, the vice-ministers who agree with the candidates of the deputy heads of administration. [[absolutely correct.]] That's the first one. But you also know that the position of the Cabinet of Ministers as a collegiate body is essentially determined by those professional vice-prime ministers who are in charge of any issue. Along with not delaying, since each cabinet meeting takes a long time not to delay making these decisions, we have just proposed such a standard. As to the fact that the acceptance of an oath comes after, we proposed our amendment. We're ready to count it right after we talked about it. So there's no contradiction here. In fact, I would like to emphasize, all of them, except for 2.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u19	Please respond more quickly. And instead of such a long tirade, you could say that the latter in the comparative table are rewritten by the Law on State Administrations, adopted in 97. All of it. Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u20	The Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", the "Our Ukraine" Block. Mr. Yuri, well, first of all, I would advise you to be frank, not cynical and pragmatic, to defend your mistake by adopting an unconstitutional Government Act. Because when you speak for the president's rights or according to them, you have to say that you've reworked them. This is no longer the president's amendment, it's already your editorial, because they don't fit the President's amendments at all. My question to you is as follows as a professional lawyer, as you like to call yourself. If at least one of the bills you are introducing does not correspond to the Constitution, do you have the right as a professional lawyer and how does a member of the Supreme Council submit this bill? At least the article 25 in part nine that you make does not correspond to the Constitution. And why can't you copy this bill, at least for these reasons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u21	Dear Anatoly Sergiyovich, we also discussed with you at the committee meeting. I can assure you as a professional lawyer that all the laws we introduce are constitutional. If you have a point of view from a legal point of view, you can go to the Constitutional Court -- and you and I will discuss with you the legal nature of the norms that we introduce. As to the substance of the rights proposed by the President, I emphasize: except for the first two, and so, there are separate arguments, we took them into account essentially, I underline, all of them, and some, seventh and eighth, practically a word in the word copied, as stated in the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u22	Knazevitch. Instead of Visus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u23	Dear Yuri Romanovich, you may not agree with the arguments of the National Deputies regarding the unconstitutional nature of the law, but you cannot fail to take into account the conclusions of, say, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which, in its conclusion, has allowed itself to write that, given the above, there is every reason to consider the relevant positions of the project as unconstitutional. At the same time, I have a question for you. In accordance with the 89th article of our Rules, all bills, without exception, should be subject to an expert opinion at the Committee on Legal Policy in accordance with the Constitution. At the same time, this bill, I, as the committee secretary, claim, was not the subject of consideration on this committee. For if he were, the committee would have drawn a clear conclusion as to his unconstitutionality, and in this case we should leave him without consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, instead of returning the subject to the right of legislative initiative. Then I don't know who to talk to or to you or to the Head of the Supreme Council. Why was this law not considered by the Legal Policy Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u24	Dear Mr. Ruslan, I am absolutely convinced that the leadership of the Supreme Council has done the right thing, because this bill did not require consideration by the Committee on Legal Policy, but was duly considered by the committee in which a thorough discussion took place and the committee has mostly supported the bill. So you, your right, to support it by voting or not, but I can assure all the deputies that its adoption is necessary and primarily from a political point of view, so that we can work together among the political forces that are discussing today, the secretariat of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u25	Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u26	Please pass the word to Mikoli Vasilovich Onichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u28	Dear Yuri Romanovich, two questions to you. Please tell me, does the legislative initiative of which you are the author, along with other colleagues, cover all the issues that exist today under the Ukrainian Cabinet Act? She's famous, and you know that there's a case before the Constitutional Court today regarding the legality of some of the provisions of this Law, which is the first. And especially. The second question is, why didn't you, as the author of the legislative initiative, reflect in your draft law a very important rule regarding the order of decision-making by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? As you know, the Law does not contain this standard. This is roughly the same if the Constitution of Ukraine does not specify how many votes the Supreme Council makes. And do you intend, in particular, to solve this problem in the future?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u29	Thank you, Mikolo Vasilovich, for asking. It is a pleasure to hear the very professional questions and, in fact, to hear them. I can say that there are, indeed, many questions that both lawyers are asking today and politicians about the content of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. At the same time, not all procedural actions are regulated by laws, but some are regulated by regulations. For example, the activities of the Supreme Council are regulated by the Rules of Procedure, which are in the order of the decree. Accordingly, we have left the right behind the Cabinet of Ministers to regulate their decision-making. At the same time, if we talk about the constitutional application that you mentioned, I think that this law, I mean the Cabinet of Ministers Act, will be declared constitutional, and today there is no need for the coalition, except for political, to make changes. It's a step towards meeting, it's a step towards cooperation. And so we can find ourselves if we return this law that will remain in force the law, and then we are already.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u30	The quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u31	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine". Dear colleague, I thank you for your sincerity, because your words that artificially created emotional opposition is evidence that a gross legal and political error has been made, that the law that we have been convinced of in the last month is still in need of improvement. And now the question is, don't you think of it as a professional lawyer, which is unnecessary to accumulate the current Ukrainian legislation by literally rewriting into the laws of the articles of the constitution, which are still the rules of direct action? At the same time, in the following provisions of this law, breaking these standards. And the second question is, isn't it worth listening to the wishes of the People's Deputy Mendus and waiting for the Constitutional Court to come to a conclusion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u32	Thank you for your attention. I am absolutely convinced that the proposals put forward by the team of authors are, first of all, to the organization of cooperation. Today Parliament will make a decision. And that's a decision or a radical one, we're going to put an ultimatum on each other. And so we will await the conclusion of the debate in the Constitutional Court of the Cabinet of Ministers Act. I'm sure he'll be declared constitutional. And then those initiatives that we're taking to harmonize the relationship between the institutions of power, they're going to stay out of the discussion in this room. That is why we suggested that we put our emotions on the table. These emotions are born, not by the Cabinet of Ministers Act, but by constitutional reform. Some political forces do not want to accept it, they do not want to accept it. And today any law will be sabotaged because it doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u33	Have a seat, please. Are there any who would like to make a statement on this subject? Is it? Please write down who wants to speak from the factions. Such order is provided for in the Rules. I'll give you my word. And an MP who wants to make a statement. Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich is invited to the rostrum by the profile committee. The recording is done, 10 minutes for discussion. 15 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u34	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Laws on the Cabinet of Ministers and on Local Government Administrations, registration number 3088 of February 2, 2007, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputies Yuri Miroshnichenko, Vitaly Šibk and Volodymyr Zlatczko, was considered at a meeting of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, held on February 7, 2007. A representative of the Ukrainian President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich, and one of the authors of the above-mentioned bill, the Ukrainian national deputy Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanović, participated in the discussion of issues other than the Ukrainian National Deputies. As a result of the lengthy discussion, the committee adopted the conclusion to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Laws of Ukraine "On the Cabinet of Ministers" and "On the Local Government Administrations" as a basis to take into account all proposals and amendments to the legislative initiative aimed at improving the bill when preparing for the second reading. I would like to remind you that the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its conclusion of 7 February 2007, also proposes to adopt this law on the basis of the comments made, which is in fact consistent with the Committee's view. Please support the proposed decision and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u35	Thank you. Fishlegs, please, from the Party of Regions. He will be followed by Klukkowski from “Our Ukraine” instead of Oneschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u36	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, honourable national deputies, if you look at the changes that are being proposed in general, and recall the whole discussion about the law on the Cabinet of Ministers and the local administrations of the previous time, it is clear that the issue is mainly about the impact of the legislative and executive branches on human resources policy, and who will be the main, the main issue of the solution of the human resources problems. I want to tell my own coalition that maybe we're doing something in vain that, by adopting the law, we're going today, but we're consciously making some concessions on personnel issues, just by identifying and understanding the head of state and making some reasonable compromise. And we are proposing this compromise today. And I think we need to support it. But I'll tell you how a person who worked for more than two decades just below, in the area, in an area of executive power. And first of all, the coalition and all the people's deputies that this incomprehensible, this human-related vacchanal, we have this very law and the historic mission of this Supreme Council to end this vacchanal, to stop it. Recall that of the 500 out of the remaining districts today, nearly 100 districts have no heads of administration for half a year or more. And our president has come up with responsibilities instead of solving these issues to the head of the administration. And they don't have any substitutes, and if they do, they sit on suitcases and do nothing and don't care. We have brought to power today's Cabinet of Ministers and let's say today that the vertical of executive power should be formed immediately and not inclined. And giving the Cabinet of Ministers full rights in vertical terms to influence all executive power and to assume personal responsibility. And I want to go to the rostrum of the right wing of our parliamentarians, the oranges. I want to talk to you, if you don't understand, so you haven't been to the area in a while and haven't seen what's going on. And if you know what I mean, don't grab hold of it, and don't lead to the President agreeing with the deputy head of administration. Today, we need to give absolute rights to a depraved, depraved, and insidious administration head. May he, in addition to the first intercessor, appoint whom he needs and is responsible for it. That we do not know that the President of Ukraine will not do this, but will the administration or secretariat of the present? I mean, that's where the truth is! Let's go, if we go, support this compromise and take down the question, and let's give the executive power the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u37	Klukkowski, behind him, Shepilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u38	Yuri Klukkowski, faction of our Ukraine. We are witnessing the continuation of this legal and voluntary vacchanism that has been initiated around the Cabinet of Ministers Act. And today’s consideration of the matter is a testimony to this. First, a report by one of the drafters showed the degree of understanding of constitutionality by some professional lawyers. I'm not talking about the collegiality of the Cabinet of Ministers anymore, it turns out that this collegiality is determined by the Prime Minister alone. I am not talking about understanding part 2 of article 19 of the Constitution, which states that it is not by law but by law that defines the way in which public authorities operate. But let this remain on the conscience of professional lawyers. The content of this bill is a mockery of those goals that have been so falsely declared here that it is a way to achieve compromise. This is a way of aggravating the situation, exacerbating the conflict, because in spite of those talks, those negotiations that are going on today, including with the participation of the Supreme Council, are being proposed to deform even the President's remarks with which he has returned the Law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and twist them in the opposite sense. There's only one illustration. The resignation of ministers appointed under the President's quota may be initiated by a coalition. It's an arrangement, it's a Constitution, it's anything. But now I want to say what really is the reason for accepting this issue today. Dear colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers Act exists, but it doesn't take effect, and that can be said by any lawyer who respects their qualifications. The point is, the President has taken him back to his veto to the Supreme Council. And no statement by any national deputy that he holds, including the office of the Supreme Council, no minister, including the minister of justice, can claim that the President has not returned the law. If there is a dispute, respectable colleagues, professional lawyers, it is settled in the rule of law in a single court order, this has not been done. So the law returned to the Supreme Council, its text published, but it was not adopted by the Supreme Council. And today a bill is being considered that aims to legalize the Law, because obviously if the Supreme Council adopts amendments to the Cabinet of Ministers Act, that law is also valid and thus justifies its existence. Dear colleagues, it's a primitive game, "made with white threads" and it won't go away. Our faction urges all those who respect the Constitution, who respect the principles of the rule of law, not to vote in favour of this bill, because it is a great hoax, it is a great undermine under the rule of law system in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u39	Instead of Sheppel's Matthews, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u40	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Thank you to the BIT factions for being able to use their quota and to comment on the proposed project. I would start by saying that there is no law, and that is why there is no need to introduce a bill today, such a position as “Our Ukraine” and my personal position, because the law is signed in violation of constitutional norms and due process. On December 26th, the Law signed by Alexander Alexanderovich, I address you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, and which is printed under your signature, signed on December 26, is fundamentally different from the Law you sent to the President on December 26th. You sent the president four paragraphs of article 25, and he was printed with three parts of part seven. In this way, the President had the right to make his remarks and send them back to his office. This was ignored. Today, by adopting a bill or amendments, we want to legalize the Law and thus legitimize unconstitutionality and illegality. And that's why we can't support this bill. But if you think about it essentially, it's a lie, and I think that a lawyer who calls himself a professional is obviously overestimating his ability to work as a professional. This bill even makes it worse that there was a bill that didn't come into force. Well, let's say that article 10 makes an oath after the appointment, and if it doesn't, and if it doesn't, then the government gets the authority when two thirds of them make an oath, and one third of them don't, they perform their duties, it turns out, we might have two government officials who made an oath and who didn't. Again, it is suggested that the President has the right to appeal to the foreign minister and the defence minister. Yes, it was the President’s suggestion, but he did not suggest that the MP and the Prime Minister do so in parallel. So it's a lie, it's not an amendment to the President, it's a compilation that doesn't make any difference. The same goes for the President's request to appoint these, the deputy of these ministries by his consent. Unfortunately, this is just a matter of consultation. And I've already said in the 25th article, the President has the right to cancel acts, here is the right to cancel acts of government that are unconstitutional. Therefore, this law is unconstitutional as the previous law, which has not entered into force, there is no need and no possibility to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u41	It's weak. He's talking from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u42	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. A fast, socialist faction. I would like to express my opinion without having a professional lawyer, but only a policy that has been working in the Supreme Council since 1994. I want to say that today, my colleagues who were speaking, and my colleague Miroshnichenko, who reported on the content of his law, they were very professionally considering questions, professionally, were thoughts, references to the Constitution. And I think our audience understands what this is about today's discussion. So I would like to express my opinion on what is around this bill, which is what our listeners are talking about in order to understand. Sometimes we're asked when we're commenting on this law, which has already been passed on to the Cabinet of Ministers, and what you're trying to do about it again, can't you just take it right now and adopt a law that would, well, meet the rules of the Constitution. And in the modern - day situation where Ukraine exists today? In fact, one could say that it could be accepted. One could also refer to the famous Russian expression that “there is no limit to perfection. ” But on the other hand, I wanted to explain that the bill that is currently being considered is an opportunity and an opportunity to seek compromise. Because we're adopting this bill in specific conditions. And they dictate what is political reform today, are changes to the Constitution, and each branch is properly seeking its place today. And when she's looking, she has the right to express her opinion, she has the right to insist, she has the right to make any changes to some kind of bill. So I think that's exactly what this is today, the moment that our society is going through, when there's a distribution of power according to the positions that have been adopted since our political reform. That's the first one. The other one. You, there have been many references to the Constitution. Both. I want to say that nowhere in the Constitution is the right coalition. So sending that this is constitutionally or unconstitutionally is not valid. Because the Constitution didn't foresee it. But laws can predict what today is the right of the coalition when we continue to strengthen our reforms. And on the other hand, and finally, I want to say that this is the norm, and this is what all of civilised Europe lives on when executive power has its proper place. The representative authority also has its proper place. And when we look at what other countries have in the Cabinet of Ministers laws about executive power, we're going to see even more of the forces that are written in this bill. So let's join in European values. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u43	He's stoned. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u44	Good afternoon, thank you. Kamchatny, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. I had just approached my colleague Miroshnichenko, the author of the bill, and asked him: “Have you ever worked in any district or district administration?” So, you know, this bill reminds me of a famous saying: “I was married without being married”, and I, as a person who went to administrative school, would advise my colleague Miroshnichenko before passing such bills, at least to consult with those who work in administrations. Because this law, I think, and in my opinion of the colleagues who are now working with me, which I've had a conversation with about this bill, this bill does not strengthen the vertical of the executive power, but it does, in fact, create a certain disorder, it has a lot of inadequacies in this bill. Some misunderstood things, for example, why the first deputy head of the administration is appointed by the Prime Minister's consent, and the deputy heads of the district administration's consent. Are these different things, or are they synonymous? Next. Such an obvious slap. The deputy heads of the district administrations are appointed by agreement with the respective representatives of the heads of the district authorities. Where is the head of the district government? Why are they bypassing it? And so on. I would like to propose, before passing this bill, to have another discussion with those practices that worked or worked in these and the chains themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u45	From one minute to the next, Miroshnichenko, the last word as the author. Excuse me, hold on a second. Princeovich, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u46	Please pass the word on to Onichuku Mikoli Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u47	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u48	Thank you, colleagues, for giving up. Dear colleagues! In December 2004, we adopted constitutional reform and liberalized the political regime, changed the system of government. Society and political elites expected that through the adoption of laws that would fill and provide adequate legal content for reform, we should take another step in the legal provision of this constitutional reform and in the liberalisation regime, but unfortunately this did not happen, as we know. And instead of adopting the Cabinet of Ministers Act to regulate the debates both in law and in politics, we have only reinforced them. And I want to draw attention to the fact that there has never been a case in the Ukrainian Parliament, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, when 42 remarks by the President were completely rejected. I mean, they were vetoed. This situation alone speaks of a certain tendency and subjectivity of the situation surrounding it. As for some professional remarks. I'd like to draw the attention of both the drafters of the bill and, in fact, the session hall to the observations of the Scientific and Scientific Administration. It has to be said that there are highly educated professionals, lawyers, and, by the way, at all stages of the adoption of the law, they have clearly pointed out the positions that are still quite controversial. I say this in order not to use the word “unconstitutional”. And the main issues raised in particular in these observations are that we cannot legally authorize the parliamentary coalition to grant those powers that it is not granted by law. This applies in particular to the attempt to include an anti-crisis coalition in the filing of the assignment, release. But you have to keep in mind. That when it comes to liberation, the will of the coalition is naturally realized by the submission of the Prime Minister, because there should be no disengagement of power here, because it is the coalition that is responsible for the government's activities, and the regime that makes the submission of the right to release the ministers, which it is, in respect of which he has submitted the assignment, completely removes the problem. With regard to the limitation of the head of State’s discussions on the application of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, this is clearly an unconstitutional situation. That's the last of it. That's me for my Peacekeeper's colleague. The Constitution, article 120, clearly states that the basic powers, organization and activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine are defined by the Constitution and the law. Reference to the Rules, other regulations are not available there, and this means that it is by law that the decision-making procedure of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be laid down. It's not in the law. And at least it's, well, it's about the legal subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u49	Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I am deeply grateful for this attention, especially the colleagues from the opposition you have given to the discussion of this issue. With regard to the appointments of deputy heads of state administration. I can assure you that this is exactly what we agreed on and consulted with those employees who are working as deputies, heads of state administration. It's not our invention. And Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz said on this point that this standard is repeating itself. Now, with regard to comments related to the order of activities. Indeed, the order of action of the Cabinet of Ministers is regulated by law, but the order of decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers is not required for regulation by law itself. Only if our law is adopted in the first reading is there absolutely no limit to making appropriate suggestions and improving it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u51	A discussion took place. According to the Rules, I need to sum it up. But in view of the contentious claims here, I am obliged to comment briefly on them. Well, first of all, it was said, like, a lie about compromise, that this is what the law is for. At our last meeting with the President and the Prime Minister, when discussing the question of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, we agreed on the following: we are introducing draft amendments to this law, taking into account that part of the rules that call into question the President's environment, regarding the appointment procedure for the Prime Minister and the individual coalition's right to apply when the introduction is blocked in accordance with the Constitution, or two ministers, or the countersignature procedure provided for in the late application to the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court will conclude, and there will be no need to address this issue in the session room. However, it was concluded that these proposals could also be incorporated into the law, thus removing all contradictions, accepting changes in both the first and second readings at once, and closing the problem as such, to stop the discussion. So this was a step towards finding compromise and not guilt, for example, to Parliament in that, literally half an hour after that, this meeting was made in the press by other conclusions from the President's Institute. Let's move on. Expressions regarding the fact that the Law is invalid. You refer to various arguments in this case, but the Cabinet of Ministers Act, promulgated under 94 articles of the Constitution, is mandatory for all. And not wanting to comply with the Law or a single thought does not mean that it is not the Law for the courts or for other entities. I would ask you not to abuse such free words. In terms of different texts, it was about different signatures, or whatever. This question has been settled permanently and long ago. And no one raises this subject except for those who want to do so on the basis of attention. So what I'm saying is, the Constitutional Court got a presentation from the President, he's going to come to a conclusion, and then you're going to say whether it was different texts or not. Both the President's Administration, and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Supreme Council, with the presentation of the President's veto statement, considered the same text, the one that was voted in the session hall. So all of these conjectures, let's not use them as arguments. It's about what he made at the wrong time or something. By the way, the deputy becomes a deputy first, and then he makes an oath. If he refuses to make an oath, he will be deprived of the status of a member of parliament. Yes, if we have to write about both the Cabinet of Ministers or the Cabinet of Ministers, let's write it there, there's no objection. Introducing, bringing in the rules and obligations of the authorities with the requirements of the Constitution, and not wanting someone to be deprived of any authority. I'd like everyone to pay attention to that. Finally, there were many suggestions, indeed, that needed to be taken into account in the work of this Law. So I would suggest that I vote in the first reading and put a dot in the next sessional week, taking into account all these suggestions that were made. I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of this bill. [[11:40:47]] For 240 Decision taken. The factions? Please. Region Party – 179, Timoshenko Street – 4, Our Ukraine – 0, SPI – 31, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. I have no right to put in general if there is a suggestion to make observations to this law. It's a draft of the Building Regulations Act. Berkuta Anatoly Vševodovitch, the first deputy minister of construction, will report on this project.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u52	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! It is known that according to the Ukrainian Standardization Act and a number of other legislations, technical requirements for construction production are regulated by Ukrainian laws in the field of standardization and conformity assessment, but they are essentially voluntary for use and do not extend to the safety of construction objects. At the same time, there is currently no legislative act in Ukraine to regulate the procedures for the development, approval, approval and application of the building standards and rules of former Soviet "Constructive Rules and Rules" with the well-known Abbreviation of AIDS, which are now in Ukraine "State Building Standards", called DBNS. According to a Soviet practice, building standards are required to be implemented. However, this situation requires legislative consolidation in our country, since the requirements of DBN are the basis for the design and construction of man - made property of various purposes and should guarantee the stability, reliability and safety of buildings and buildings. Similar practices exist throughout the world, including in countries of the European Union where documents are in operation, so-called “Eurocodes”, which contain mandatory requirements. The proposed bill is designed to implement measures to implement the Ukraine-EU action plan, as its implementation will help bring the domestic regulatory framework closer to European building. The bill provides for legislative certainty of the obligation of building standards. They are defined as normative acts. This will allow consumers to be assured that the requirements of creating a safe environment will be met unconditionally, and it will also create conditions for protecting the interests of the national manufacturer in the construction market. The basic principles of public policy have been formulated in the field of regulation, organizational principles of standardization in construction, and public information and territorial standards. Subjects for building regulations have been designated as the central authority of the executive branch of construction and architecture and other central executive bodies, the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district, Kiev and Sevastopol city administrations. Basic organizational principles have also been laid down for the creation of a central fund of building standards, as well as for funds of well-known territorial building standards. The adoption of this bill will allow for the creation of a regulatory framework in construction on a qualitatively new level, and will provide a basis for avoiding duplication of the requirements of acts governing construction activities. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional funding from the State Budget. Law enforcement, of course. As to the observations made in the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I explained at the beginning of my report both the difference in the concepts of standardization and standardisation in construction and the difference between standards and building standards from the point of view of their substance. It should be noted that the proposed bill should become fundamental to ensuring the operation of the building complex as a whole and does not conflict with existing legislation. Please support the bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u53	Is there a question for the author? None. Have a seat, please. Any questions? Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u54	I've got it. Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u55	Wait a minute. He's gonna ask a question right now. Sign up for questions. Please, six minutes. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u56	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, southern Winnitzkina. Dear reporter, in part 1 of article 9 of this project there is such a position that the order of approval of building standards is established by the central authority of the executive body of construction and architecture, that is, your ministry, which you are in charge of. But in the law on the foundations of construction, it is totally contrary to this law. So we're basically the basic basis of this law and we're transferring it to executive power and to the Ministry. Is that fair or not? Are we not going to do another one of these things?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u57	I'm sorry, there aren't any of those in the Law on the Basics of Construction that would contradict this bill. The Law on the Basics of Construction lays down basic principles for the development, acceptance, approval of various documents, but in this bill, this law does not refer to building standards. In this case, I emphasize, this is about building standards, which is the norm that predicts how much it takes in the iron concrete structure to put the fittings that it should be the diameter of how to calculate this structure. Of course, only experts and experts can do so by establishing how this standard is subject to acceptance, expertise, and approval. And in general, in all the times, starting with Soviets, it was the prerogative of the USSR and the sister of Ukraine, but since then there has been no such structures left, and on the other hand there is no legislative act to say who should do it in the state who.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u58	Please, Jakimenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u59	I ask you to pass it on to Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u60	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u61	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Regions Dear Anatoly the Almighty, this is a government bill, so I was simply obliged to ask questions. The point is that the area of civil or industrial construction is an integral part of the national economic complex and plays an extremely important role in GDP dynamics. I'm just going to remind you, dear colleagues, when the pace of construction plummeted in 2005, almost 10 percent, it was felt by our hostess. So that it doesn't seem to the honourable colleagues that this bill has implications such as regulation at the legislative level of some procedural moment, I have two questions. First. Will this bill allow the building industry to rise? And how? And the second. Will it contribute to the growth of material prosperity, that is, the economic and social consequences of the adoption of the bill? This is extremely important for our committee and for our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u62	Thank you. I'll start with the second part of your question. Today, all of us were shown the Perm region by television channels and showed the water park that collapsed. Here's the talk in this bill that we're going to make it impossible for this situation to happen when a particular design can collapse, that's what this law is about, that's what the social consequences are for you. And here's what we're talking about in the second part. Now we're not just out of the crisis, but today the building industry, as I think, is the most attractive business. And last year, we've increased the volume of building activity by ten percent, that's construction and assembly work, but we need to increase the volume, we're not just asking about increasing the volume, we're asking about changing the quality of what we're building today. And quality involves the introduction of new materials, buildings, structures, and technologies. In order for them to be safe and to be accepted by this law. And we're going to get you a new quality and easy access to our market for new technologies, materials and constructions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u63	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u64	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Please give my word to my colleague Alexander Pecklesenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u65	Alexander Pecklusenko, “Regions” faction. First, I would like to thank my colleague for the opportunity presented. Secondly, the honourable rapporteur, the faction, will vote in favour of the proposed draft law because we have considered it in detail. But for the future, I'm asking you, the most damaging information is the one that doesn't contain any information. In this law, you had to pay particular attention to such important issues as cost. Is this law going to affect your worth or not? I'll say, "It's affecting." Because the experts who are going to conclude are going to need money for that. Do not give God if there is still an office with these professionals to move these conclusions forward quickly. We therefore very much ask you to pay attention to enforcement controls so as not to allow yet unconvincing officials to use this law as an instrument.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u66	Thank you. Can I answer that? I want to tell you that you can see right in article 9, which was referred to by the national deputy of Yavorowski, that under all these positions there will be documents that will talk about how this law will be implemented, including the order of expertise and approval of such normative documents. And of course, we're going to have to think about how, in the drafting of this bill, it's going to have to be an extra article to write it clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u67	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Would you like to say something? Please, Hennady Josephovich, is there anyone else? All right, then, Gennady Josephovich, please have three minutes. Please, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I asked you a question. But since I didn't get a hug, I'd like a little bit more. This law is necessary. We need to have mandatory building standards in the construction and construction systems. That's what I'm telling you because I used to be the secretary of the U.S. Department of Construction Industry, and I know how they did bricks like cement and stuff. The other one. Our faction supports this bill. The other one. The reporter referred to Soviet experience. So I'm going to tell you about my Soviet experience as well. I was a permanent representative of the Soviet Ukraine to the UN, and I arrived with a highly respected Soviet delegation of builders headed by the first deputy head of the State of the Soviet Union. The delegation consisted of the “god” of construction in the Soviet Union, which is the head of the CTC's construction department and the Ukrainian Vice-Prime Minister, then he is the Deputy Head of the Ukrainian Government Borisowski, our well-known and talented builder. Since the Soviet delegation was not involved, Borisovski asked me: “Gennady Josephovich, give me a car, maybe even New York will look at our delegation.” And I drove them to New York. Well builders, it was about building these New York skyscrapers, and I said to them, "Look, there's no "Let's work one day on economic raw materials!" there's no "Let's leave the house to the anniversary of the U.S. independence!" - there is no. So this Law, it seems to me, should prevent the appearance of such slogans, but even more so, where the bill says that there should be some standards for construction. This building of skyscrapers, how are they provided with fire safety, who thinks about it? Who will then be responsible for this, and do not let God’s fire take place? So we support this Law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u69	Thank you. Before voting on the law, I would like Bertash, the deputy chairman of the committee, to express his views on this law on behalf of the committee. Please, Vasil Mikhailovich Bertash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u70	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! The Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, at its meeting, reviewed and supported the draft Law on Building Standards. The bill is an important step towards the regulation of the regulatory framework in construction. To date, the laws of Ukraine that regulate construction work do not practically contain the requirements for the development and further development of a regulatory framework for construction in Ukraine. Ukraine’s construction complex has been governed by building standards for over 13 years. During this time, some 100 government building standards were developed and put into effect. In addition, more than 200 building standards and rules of the former Soviet Union are currently in force in Ukraine. As far as building standards are concerned, in spite of their existence, since Soviet times the area of issues that should be regulated by these types of documents has not been covered by territorial building standards at all today. Although we believe that they should be a very important component of the regulatory framework for construction, especially in view of the development of the region's independence. Thus, it has long become necessary to define the basic principles of public policy in the area of building regulations, building standards, the spheres of authority of the development, approval, approval, and recognition of construction standards that have become invalid. In view of this, the bill is very important and timely. As for the observations made in the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, they are correct. And the committee is ready to adopt the bill as a basis and to finalize it according to these observations. So the committee proposes to support and accept as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u71	Thank you. The views of the deputies are expressed both in this regard and in the committee, just a moment, and the committee has also expressed itself. I wanted to pay attention to that detail. Our scientific expertise has referred to observations, mainly considering that the individual provisions of this law are reworded with other legislative acts and with the requirements presented there. That's right. Although it should be borne in mind that when the necessary law is passed to a particular profile, in some sector of law, and it closes the spheres of influence of other laws, then it is given to the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare appropriate changes in those laws. And that's why in this case, the Science-Expert Authority had no reason to talk about the need to re-read the law first time. It could simply refer to specific laws that need to be amended. And the committee of profile in this case did the right thing when he suggested that we adopt this law in the first reading and prepare it for the second reading. Because today we need to build, and here I see Vladimir Avramovich Polachenko is located. He can confirm that. I didn't write, of course, even though there's nothing to write for. And the technical conditions must be met to ensure that the quality of construction is ensured. Clearly, then, there can be no doubt. And I would like to support this bill in the first reading. Please. Here comes the vote. [[11:59:43]] For 285 Decision taken. We agreed that we work without interruption until time, and then we have “Variance”. Hence, the Law on the Judicial Congregation is now under consideration. And reports Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft Law on the Judicial Assembly is designed to determine the legal principles for the administration of a judicial assembly in accordance with the rules of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the System of Taxation. The draft law provides for the definition of the concept of a court-martial and proposes to replace the current mechanism of payment of state-of-the-art duties when submitting applications and complaints to a court established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. The provisions of the draft law are also determined by the actions of the judicial congregation, the payers of the congregation, the rates, the benefits, the order of payment, and the return of the court. The rates of the court are proposed to be set on an appropriate scale from the minimum wage established by law on 1 January of the calendar year in which the relevant complaint or application is filed before the court, as a percentage of the relevant price of the lawsuit, as far as the case is concerned, and on a fixed basis. The rates of the civil court are determined in terms of the extent to which the State will guarantee the constitutional right of every citizen to appeal to the court for the protection of his or her rights and freedoms. The rates of the court, which are proposed to be established in administrative proceedings, will ensure that the rights, freedoms and interests of natural persons, the rights and interests of legal persons in the field of public and legal relations are made available to the public authorities, local authorities, their officials and officials. The court’s payment to the household court is somewhat larger than civil and administrative justice, and this is determined with a view to encouraging the owners to observe contractual discipline. At the same time, the drafting of the law was based on the constitutional principle of equality of all the parties to the trial, including the State authorities before the law and the court, as enshrined in article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine. In view of what is suggested by the substantial reduction in the aid for payment by the court compared with the amount of the aid provided by the U.S. Attorney’s Decree on State duties for the payment of public duties when filing applications and complaints to the court. Exclusion from the public authorities is the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which will be released, in accordance with this project, from the judicial assembly in the exercise of representation of the interests of citizens or the state in the courts. The novelty of the bill is also the channelling of the funds of the court to ensure the activities of the courts relating to the direct handling of cases and the provision of information and technical services, in accordance with the State Budget Act of Ukraine. The aim of this innovation is to improve the financial situation of the courts. So this is essentially about 2 significant directions that are being proposed to change. The first is to move away from government duty as the only congregation to go to the General Fund of the State Budget and move to the Court Assembly, which is headed to a special fund, i.e. it is a binding assembly that is used solely by the courts themselves to improve its financial situation. The second is the determination of the size of the judicial assembly, depending on the nature of the administrative, civil or economic process, and the identification of new approaches and new rates for this congregation. I believe that this approach will allow not only to conform to existing procedural codes where it is determined that the transition will take place in Ukraine from the administration of government duties to the judicial assembly, but also to allow for a substantial improvement in the financial situation of the Ukrainian judicial system. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u73	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please give me six minutes. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u74	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mr. Minister! I'd like to ask you a question like that. Of course, you did some calculations, and we all know the state of the district courts in the rural area. About what ratio of judicial work can help them to resolve questions about, say, building there to improve, repair, and so forth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u75	Such calculations are prepared by the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine and will be made in preparation for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u76	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u77	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Please give my word to my colleague Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u78	Something you're passing on today. Please, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u79	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear reporter, you've probably done the calculations that, if you're transferring a person's salary now to court and to pay the taxes, and you're transferring it from a minimum human standard of living, what would be the amount that would be compared to what man paid, and what would he pay now? That's the first one. And secondly, is there anything simpler in this law so that these poor people, who lack bread, can turn without paying their dues?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. I mean, for this category of citizens you're talking about, there's usually a duty exemption in general, there's a separate article that provides that the plaintiffs are suing for wage collection, renewal at work, compensation for damage caused by disability, alimony lawsuits and so on, there's a large list where there's no court fee at all. Then, the very size of the court’s congregation on such charges, administrative or civil, is set at one tenth of the minimum wage. So the minimum wage for each year is different. Today it's going to mean 17 copies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u81	Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. Our faction will support this legislative initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers. But, Alexandre Volodymyrovich, please answer the following question: Well, there is a conclusion that the adoption of this bill, first of all, will lead to the absence of adequate revenue from the payment of duties to the local budgets. Apparently, you, I mean, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, calculated these costs. So, please tell me, what is the amount of this calculation, and more faithfully, of the local budgets today, and how much does the state budget get after this bill is passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u83	The fact is that the government's tax is included in the general budget of Ukraine all the years and today, it is not included in the local budgets. Thus, changes are made in accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on State Customs. Hence, there will be no change, no more, no less, since the local budget was not available. Only the difference will be that it will now come, not to the general fund of the state budget, but to the special fund, and will be bound to the judicial system. I can't tell you the physical size of the court cut today, because today it's only in the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u84	Please, Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u85	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I would like, well, there's no doubt that we need, of course, to have a special law, not just a decree from the Cabinet of Ministers, or a decree from the Cabinet of Ministers. But what bothers me, you remember, in the previous summons, we actively debated the procedure for customs on extremity claims, on media claims, on protection of honor and dignity. I mean, I think you know very well these loud stories when, for example, against the media there's a lawsuit, like a million dollars. So the newspaper then, obviously, shuts down because it can't pay. Several such newspapers were closed in the regions. We then, in the previous call of the Supreme Council, made changes, particularly to this decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which predicted a scale of one to ten percent, depending on the amount of the lawsuits. Of course, this approach is now nullified by the law. Do you not think that this, for a transitional period, would have to be maintained until we have a civilized relationship between business, politics and the media, to preserve the standard that I proposed to ensure that the media are closed and that we simply adapt to the second reading, just to return to an active norm that we can't appeal to the media with some super-geometric amount and pay one percent of the lawsuit.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u86	If this is about incontrovertible contention, when it comes to the media, I mean, the image of honour and dignity of the issue, the pleas of immaterial nature, the bill is fixed by a judicial assembly the size of one tenth of the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u87	Thank you, have a seat, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please, from the Justice Committee, Mikola Ivanovich Zamkovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u88	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on 1 December 2006 the draft Ukrainian Law on Judicial Assembly, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, registration number 2378. You've just heard the Justice Minister's report on what the committee is saying. The bill regulates the legal principles for the administration of a judicial assembly in accordance with the rules of the Civil Procedure Code of Ukraine, the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Tax System. The provisions developed by the draft law define the concept of a judicial assembly, the subject matter of taxation and the paying of the court, the size of the rates, the benefits of paying the court’s fees, the order of payment and the return of the court. In addition, the bill proposes to set the rates of the judicial assembly in parts up to the minimum wage established by the law on 1 January of the calendar year in the percentage of the price of the lawsuit and to a fixed extent, taking into account the economic changes in the state since the adoption of the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. According to the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments it has made. In addition, my honourable colleagues, I would like to tell you that, after the issue on the Justice Committee has been discussed, a number of suggestions and observations have been received from other organizations, such as the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Odessa National Law Academy. In addition, the U.S. Federation of Trade Unions, which generally makes observations of value, also makes certain requests for changes in the rates of the court, and the whole point is that this law can be adopted in the first reading. Committee decision: recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to include this issue in the agenda of the day session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to adopt the bill as a basis. I have proved, gentlemen, the opinion of the Justice Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u89	You have time, you can prove yours. Wait. No questions? Sign up. Please, four minutes. It's a light bulb.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u90	Jarochuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm asking you to give the word to my colleague Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u91	Dry, ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u92	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Dear Mikolo Ivanovich, I have a question for you on the bill and a question for you as a professional. You've seen, here's one comment about the possible loss of local budgets due to the lack of payment of duties. Please tell me, has the committee analyzed the actual losses and how will they be compensated? But the main thing, if you'll excuse me, is maybe a little bit off the subject of our electorate and national MPs of Ukraine, is everyone concerned, and please tell me, as the former head of the court, is there anything else that can be changed in Ukraine, or is it possible for the courts to stop raiding? In order for the courts to stop grossly violating the material rights of subjects of entrepreneurial activity so that the courts, in the end, do not make the whole world laugh by their judicial decisions. Is there anything in the session room that your profile committee would suggest that we finally build this judicial branch of power in a civilized way? Thank you. Sorry about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u93	Well, the first part of your question you said on the subject. The committee noted that there is indeed a derogation from the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which included funds for local budgets. Instead, the new version of the Pro-Trial Assembly law develops a concept where this goes to the State Budget and then is referred to in article 9 of the draft law on the purpose of covering the courts and providing the material and technical courts. It's an absolute novelty. It may need to be improved clearly, but the budget will directly predict that this is going to happen, these congregations, right to the courts. Regarding local budgets, this was not indicated and local budgets sometimes did not separate these funds. As for the second part of your question, I'd like to tell you this. This is not up to the Committee on Legal Policy, it is up to us, the national deputies of Ukraine. We urgently need to change our legislation, make it worse so that there is really no raiding. And we need to look at the concept that we already have, about judicial reform, we need to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u94	Kirilchuk Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u95	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear committee head, I ask you very much, explain to the future committee head, explain whether in the committee you have received a clear estimate of how this law will affect the budget: will it reduce income, increase income in government, in local budgets? You see, this question is very often repeated. And the second. Has it not been wrong for the minister to say that a person who receives a minimum wage or a minimum pension in court will pay only 17 copies?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u96	Thank you for the questions and I want to tell you that, actually on the committee, I'm going to tell you honestly, we didn't do that calculation. Given that I'm a reporter from the committee, I've compared the law, the draft new law, and the Cabinet of Ministers' decree on government duties in this part. And I want to tell you that there are changes. If you want to say so quickly, in the decree it's an untaxed minimum, it's certainly not like the minimum wage, where the concept of this bill. Here we go, if we take, for example, the lawsuits were 8 dollars 50 dollars, the appeal, now it's going to be 36 or 70 dollars, going up on some issues absolutely. But I want to tell you in this respect, I'm in the defense of the judges, I'm not in the interest of picking up the population, but as a judge I'm going to tell you, can you do it for one penny or for 30 copies of the judge, you know, broken walls, there's no paper when you come to court and you're told that you have to bring paper, pencils and something else to bring there. And when you go to another institution, you get 200 dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u97	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues! You've heard that the Minister of Justice said that today's current duty is established by the Cabinet of Ministers decree. The decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers, remember when they were issued? When the Prime Minister was Kuchma. When was he Prime Minister? Clearly, prices have changed dramatically over the past 12 or 15 years, so the coins have moved to the bracelet. They want to talk. Sign up for factions who want to share in the discussion. Yes, non-factionable. Who else, as it were, regardless of whether they belong to the faction, is going to be recorded. Yeah, let's take away, and I'm sorry, I don't understand why you're in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u98	Instead of Korj.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u99	And that's what you said, so I'm going to look at how many minutes, give me 12 minutes to talk. It's Cory. He's handing over Lachka from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko. Please get ready for Onichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u100	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The Timoshenko bloc will not vote in favour of this bill for many reasons, but the main two. First, the bill proposes all proceeds from the judicial assembly to be sent to the state budget. So by taking away these revenues from the local budgets they're getting right now. And when the reporter, the minister of justice, answering my colleague's questions, tells us that it's going to the state office right now, he's either not prepared for the question and he doesn't understand what he's saying or he's misleading the Ukrainian people's deputies. According to the decree, now coming from a state-of-the-art point of view goes to local budgets except for the duty of applying for applications to farm courts, appeals and appeals against the decisions of farm courts, to the reporter's knowledge, is the first. So by offering to take away the income from the stick, I'm going to answer Mr. Dryo's questions about how much local budgets are coming. Unfortunately, in preparing such a serious issue, the Ministry of Justice did not give this figure, and these revenues to one third of the local budgets are coming from the State. And today, the government wants to take it to the state budget in such a way that, by desecrating local budgets, the district managers would go with their hands out to the Cabinet of Ministers and ask them to give us some kind of subsidy or grant, that's the first reason we won't vote. The other one. In fact, in the case of the adoption of this bill, Adam Ivanovich, the rates of court duty are rising sharply compared to that of the court, and they are rising sharply compared to the government's duties that we pay. I did the math. For example, an invitation for a breakup of marriage today: a pendulum of 8.5 dollars, and in the case of the adoption of the Law, there will be 80 dollars. Individual statements: Today, $8.5 is offered, and $40 is offered. External statements are not of a property nature: Today, it is 17 dollars, but it is 40 dollars. Evidence claim: Today is not available, and tomorrow, if accepted, is $40. For the reissue of a court order, when a person comes to court, a copy is taken, today 50 copies are paid for a piece of paper, and tomorrow he will pay his purse. For the reissue of the court, for printing the technical record of the trial: there is no payment today, and tomorrow 5 bracelets for one sheet of that format. Imagine that people are going to submit and consider an application for an inheritance or a divorce or something like that. That's why we're not going to vote for this bill, because this is another attempt to get into the pockets of Ukrainian citizens, which is totally unacceptable, given the level of income that the vast majority of people receive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u101	Mikola Onischuk, followed by Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u102	The Honourable Chairman, the Honourable People's Deputies, is an important bill because, as you know, we haven't changed the legal regime in this Queen for almost 15 years. The benefit is that the court is directly provided for by its own ideology of the bill, and why it actually did appear, it is predicted that it will be directed to the special fund of the state budget, so that it will be directed exclusively to the financing of the judiciary as a guarantee of its activities, since every time we discuss the budget, we talk about the fact that it does not guarantee the proper level of funding of the judiciary. At the same time, there are many negatives. The main ones, first of all, mentioned here by Oleg Lazko, should be given due consideration that the congregation’s stakes do increase pressure on those who apply to court. I mean both physical persons and legal persons. First of all, I want to say about subjects of entrepreneurial activity that apply to, inter alia, the courts and the rate increases from 1 percent of property claims to 2. More naturally, it's always, you know, a question of relevance, but I think that 1 percent of the price of the lawsuit is fairly uniform if you take the basic jurisdiction of Ukraine, where it's used by the rate, which is largely the same for rational, well, especially in China, that's the rate and in many other countries. The second thesis, it's questionable enough, it's a transition from the base of congregation management from an untaxed minimum to an average wage. Well, first of all, we have to understand that the average wage changes every year and usually several times. You know, even the current budget is that the average wage is going to change three times over the course of the year. And it creates some discomfort to calculate this tax, the fatigue of the tax base or the administration of the court, if this is an untaxed minimum, is more stable. And it's really worth having an extra discussion about whether or not it's worth doing. Another thesis. You know, we recently passed a law with you called anti-trader law, which, in particular, aimed at avoiding corporate conflicts and abuses in this area, gave citizens the right to address, and exclusively, including citizens, more faithfully. only when it comes to corporate disputes. But we have the price of a property claim to the court for a total of 1 percent, and we have 2 percent to the Court of Lords. I mean, the bill doesn't take into account the reality that actually took place during our normal-project activity. So, from the bottom of it all, the honourable colleagues, we're still proposing a draft bill, because the idea is the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u103	Alla Alexandrovska, please follow her, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u104	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Our faction will support the adoption of this law on first reading, because we believe that there are really issues that need to be addressed. Among other things, it must be truly clear that these funds must go to the content of the judiciary, the judicial system, as originally intended. If there was criticism here that funds were being deducted from local budgets, I will allow myself to say that a court fee cannot be or is not a third of the income of the local budget. But that's not even the point. There is widespread practice when local councils refuse these fees. It is a common practice today, unfortunately, when utilities that provide housing and utility services apply to courts for the recovery of public utility debts. Very often citizens do not even know that such claims are brought before the courts. In order to facilitate recourse to utilities, local councils have refused to collect such claims. And these claims are brought before the courts by thousands, hundreds of people, and unfortunately, people are kept from their miserable income, often even from retirement, these are payments that go through the judicial system. Therefore, I believe that the rates of the judicial assembly themselves require a careful approach and that we really need to look at, including the basis. I think that in principle the minimum wage is not a bad base, but indeed, it will have to be recalculated all the time. That is, it will be very difficult to predict and plan the income of these taxes. And plus people themselves won't understand what they need to plan. Therefore, I believe that this law should be adopted on first reading, and that this contribution should be taken seriously. Because we have a lot of conflicts in land relations. There are many examples today where people do not get the rent for the rations they have, they cannot go to the courts because the lease is not registered. And including the question of judicial assembly, it is a very serious question for those living in rural areas who do not have income, but must actually address all these issues before the courts. I therefore propose, on first reading, a bill to support, finalize and finalize it in the Hall. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u105	Thank you. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u106	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko, southern Winnitzkina Dear colleagues! Of course, the sad paradox is that after so many years, we are finally going back to such a rudimentary order as the Kuchma decree, which was written then, literally, on our knees. And it would have seemed during this time that we should have prepared ourselves fundamentally, because behind this bill are the great interests of our electorate with you, that is, the common people. Because it seemed that we should have this bill already so, give me a word, lick it out, put it all in place so that today in this room we should all be unanimous. Because it is quite clear that the judicial assembly is a general standard of civilized, European and not just European. Instead, we have another improvisation, from the point of view of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko improvisation is very imperfect. I literally led a group of people around the country, in my homeland, about a few days ago. You all national MPs know very well that we have today, if before the National MP could write any letters, and I've written them as the National Deputy of the Soviet Union, today we're sending people and telling them, “This problem can only be solved by the courts.” And so I took the common people, there were the border grandmothers, and so on, when I say you should go to court, they look at me with such sad eyes that I'm cause and come from another planet. That's why today, you know, sleep in the sun and not talk about it. That we're doubling our taxes, the court, it's a colossal blow to those people who were still afraid to go to court, and now they're not going to go there anymore. I'm sure we should be absolutely alone here. The second question. I am convinced that you and I, as the collegiate mind of the Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council, which is chosen by the people, must say clearly: “The courts cannot today depend on the judicial assembly, it is necessary for the state to fund the courts.” You've heard, you've spoken, you've accidentally spoken to my colleague from my faction, Judge Zamkovenko, who said, "The man who goes to trial, and he knows this because he was the head of the Pechersky court, a man has to carry pencils, paper." He took a little break and said, "And something else to carry." Because of this I am absolutely convinced that we should, and I am addressing our distinguished minister, give us a very clear one. What are we doing? We want to accept in the first reading, we want to shove this like a French frog in our mouth, we want to accept it, and then by the second reading, they give us a figure on how much this is going to cost a person. That's why I'd like to postpone the adoption of this bill today, to bring it back. Please give us clear calculations so that we will consciously know what we are taking instead of that decree. That's when we all vote unanimously for him. Today, the block of Yulia Timoshenko will not vote in favour of this bill, we simply have no moral right. And let people hear about it. We're not going against them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u107	Question completed. Let's be clear. I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on the Judicial Assembly. Registration number 2378. Please vote [[12:34:00]] For 234 Decision taken. The factions? You've seen factions. But he didn't vote. The factions. Region Party – 180, Block Timoshenko – 4, “Our Ukraine” – 6, Socialists – 19, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 5. The bill was adopted in the first reading. I would have asked the committee of profile in its final drafting, along with the ministry, to make sure that it really responds to today's realities, that it doesn't go to the detriment of our people, and that we can accept it as a whole. Let us go to the section “In summary procedure. ” [[When a Decision Is Made]] There was an agreement, however, that we would remove Bill 3069 from this section in summary procedure: housing services. Please, Your Honor, then vote in favour of the proposal that the bill, apart from Bill 3069, be considered in favour of a reduced procedure. Vote. [[12:35:38]] For 375 So the bills will, if we have time, be considered by a reduced procedure. And now, since we have excluded the 3069 bill from section “In summary procedure”, it will now be considered in full procedure. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Housing Services Act. Timoshenko reports. He'll report to Serbin. No, we can't miss it, because it's this chapter right now. Sirbin, please go to the rostrum and then the reporter will come.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u108	Fellow dignitaries, the Committee on Construction, Construction, and HKG have long dealt with this problem. The problem must certainly be solved within the framework of housing reform. But as this is a complex problem and a multiplanetary one, we approach it from different angles. And, of course, one of the most important ingredients is tariffing. To make life easier for our citizens, the committee supported the Debt Restructuring Act and gave people the hope of paying off the debt. True, I have an observation on this point. At the time of adoption of this Law, we decided not to bring about bankruptcy and agriculture, housing and utilities, businesses. So it's the government's job to draft a bill on debt restructuring. Sadly, it has been a month, but there is no such decision. Now I go to the essence of this Law. Because this Law is one of the ingredients. As this Law was considered in the committee and laid down in this law. Of course, we can criticize the government, but it does not have the authority to influence local councils. Hence, the first paragraph of this Law proposes that the government be given additional authority to influence the city, the local councils, and the authority to test their validity. The committee unanimously supported the two positions of the Law. First of all, it's about giving additional powers to the government. And second, about 20 percent of the total income of all housing and utilities payments. This is really going to affect, affect, affect the platability of our citizens. Because if people see that they can't pay, they'll stop paying at all. The fourth paragraph, where the rate of increase in housing and utility prices cannot exceed the rate of growth of the average wage of those employed in the economy over the last calendar year, called for contradictions in the committee. Five members of the committee, by the way, from the ruling Party of the Regions, voted against this inclusion paragraph, against the inclusion of this paragraph in the Law. Therefore, the committee’s decision contains warnings. And with your permission, I will now read out the committee's decision. “The Committee on Construction, Construction, Housing and Utilities reviewed the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. The bill proposes to limit the size of the possible increase in tariffs on VAT and to make such an increase directly dependent on the rate of increase in the average wages of industrial workers. The project also envisages the issue of the power-generating central authority of the right to form a public policy on the setting of prices and tariffs for central heating, water supply and water supply services. The Committee believes that the proposed amendments to the Pro-ZKH Act of Ukraine will help to prevent an unwarranted increase in tariffs on residential services provided to the population. At the same time, the committee makes warnings. I will explain what the warning is because five members of the committee voted against the inclusion of this paragraph: on the economic relevance of supplementing article 31 of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act as part of the fourth position. In view of the above, the Committee proposes to the Supreme Council to support the draft Law of Ukraine, introduced by the National Deputies Timoshenko and Bodnar as a result of his first reading, to adopt as a basis the following revisions to the second reading. This is the committee's decision, please support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u109	Thank you, Yuri Sergiyovich. Will there be questions? Sign up. Yes, please, six minutes. Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u110	Please give the floor to Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u111	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u112	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Yuri Sergeyevich, I carefully read this bill, although we only received it today, and from the date of registration, it was only registered yesterday. But I still didn't see what you said. There is no mandate here for the Cabinet of Ministers, the Government. Here is the correction of the third paragraph of the bill, which refers to the central authority of the executive branch. It's not the government. So, please tell me, where does this law expand the functions of the Government?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u113	Answer. Right now, the issue of reforming the LHC and generally securing the LHC is the Ministry of Construction and Housing. He's the central authority of the executive power that goes in, and the ministers, he's part of the government and he's the vice-premier. Thus, within its competence, the central authority of the executive branch of regulation forms public policy by setting prices and tariffs. In addition, we have the central governing body NCRE, which is now completely subordinate to the Cabinet of Ministers. Therefore, NCRE can verify this, and the Ministry of Construction is also working on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u114	Please, Lukyanchuk. She can't ask the same question twice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u115	Thank you. Please pass the word to Láško Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u116	I don't have Alexandria.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u117	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. In my opinion, the addition to article 31, which provides that the rate of higher housing and utility prices cannot exceed the rate of growth of the average wage for the last calendar year is entirely logical. And I don't think this norm can be a barrier to the adoption of the law not only in the first reading, but in general. Because we expect this to happen without exaggerating the whole of Ukraine. And I think that the law can be passed in general, and this rule is perfectly fair, because the cost of utilities can't be higher than the revenue that people get, and it has to be proportional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u118	What Is the Answer? I also voted for this rule to be left to the law. But as chairman of the committee, I have no right if five members of the committee voted against it, I have no right not to say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u119	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u120	Dear Yuri Sergiyovich, I want to continue with the subject that has now risen. You know, when a citizen doesn't have the money to pay, he just doesn't pay, and as a result, if we don't adopt this rule of law or remove it, there, secondly, the third reading, as a result, we're only going to increase the non-payment crisis. And when people don't have money, they won't pay us to not adopt any laws, no matter how much the ruling majority vote there. That's why I'm addressing everyone, and above all, the Party of Regions and others who think I'm the protector of the labor people. Let's work honestly, and when we increase our expenses, we have to increase our income. Otherwise, it must be made clear that the Antichrist Coalition leads the country to destruction and the people to begging. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u121	Yeah, well, in principle, it was also a performance. The raven.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u122	Oleg Lazko hasn't said everything yet, so please give him my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u123	Yeah, he got his voice cut out. He's feeling it. Come on. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u124	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I'm talking to my colleagues from the Anti-Crist Coalition. You and I fought in the Kiev City Council on tariff issues. Sadly, you were not on the side of the people of Kiev. You and the Chernewsky have raised these tariffs. Happily, we have managed to drop them abruptly, and today people will be able to pay for them. So let's work out the mistake you made in Kiev together and make sure that people across Ukraine are able to pay these tariffs. And so that they don't grow as they do today, and you sit here and you suggest, let's do three more months to see if it should go beyond the rate of wage growth, these tariffs or not. Yes, it is obvious that they should not go beyond that. A man can't pay more than he gets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u125	It's a performance again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u126	I think it's a performance. I can only say it once more. You can't raise tariffs, I've already told you with a report, so they can stop paying at all. We're going to bankrupt people and businesses. Tell me I don't know yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u127	Mikola Sadowa.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u128	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please state the competence of the Supreme Council and the competence of the local councils and, in particular, the implementation of this law, how do you appreciate the issue that we are considering today. Like, on the one hand, we do good for people without having jurisdiction, according to the law. And on the other hand, those parties, particularly the BIT, that have the majority in the councils and especially in Kirovograd, when prices are raised 3-4 times on tariff services. In this case, the price of the carousel was raised. Is there a contradiction here or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u129	First of all, my point of view is professional, if possible, without politics. I think in order for us to have a real reform of housing and utilities right now, if there's really a serious desire in the government to do that, I would, for example, give additional powers and in some ways restrict the authority of local councils. Secondly, if you talk about BUT, you already know about Kiev, I won't say it again. Secondly, in all our factions, I know there is a serious task to be carried out in order to have a serious analysis of the tariffs set so that they can be justified. I think if our factions did, and they started doing it, starting with Kiev, the tariffs would be reduced. That's the only thing I can answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u130	Thank you. Please sit down. The author of the initiative is National Deputy Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u131	Julia Timoshenko. I think today, regardless of the party membership of the people sitting in this room, it's obvious to everyone that the tariff disaster has touched every single person in the country except 2-3 percent of the people who can't understand at all how high the tariffs are, pay whatever they want. So I think that this is an option where our hall can join together with decisions that will benefit everyone in the country today. You know, I want to break up, but right now, there's an MP from the Party of Regions sitting there, and there's a wild voice all over the hall that doesn't need to be considered. I'm asking you not to go to the market, behave yourself. And so, I would like to ask now that we put all our opposition aside and analyze a few serious things that we can right now legislatively correct. The first thing that we're talking about. Around the country today, tariffs are set by local authorities spontaneously, without the sole algorithm for setting the price without any rules at all. And today, at the local level, unfortunately, most of the advice is that businesses that provide residential services are either in the administration of certain businesses, or sometimes in private property. And there's a bunch of real or shadow owners of housing and utilities that provide services with factions on boards of the right level. [[As it happened in Kiev]] And on the basis of this merger, they practically set such tariffs so that businesses that are governed by the shadow of certain people get profits, and these profits are being skinned by people today. In most cases, where tariffs are raised 3-4 times, that's the conspiracies behind the towers. And I'll give you an example right now. I have a table in my hands that analyzes the value of all utility services in areas in absolute terms. So let's compare two digits. For example, the cost of heating is 5.1 bracelets per square metre in the Donetsk region, for example, some 1.9 bracelets in Chercas. You know, that's the difference. It's not explained by the technical state of the network, it's not explained by temperature fluctuations, nothing. And I can't understand why today's highest price for such services is in Uzhgorod, it's 5.12, second place Donetsk, and third place Winnitz. I'm talking about these areas because it's not the East-West division, it's the general "bard" that's being made in the state. And when there's a price of 1 bracelet in one area and 5 bracelets in the other, it's about a lack of government policy in principle. And so in the Law that we're now proposing, the first point we're passing on the right to set tariffs, and we're actually having the only algorithm for the whole country, the only control to have and actually to keep it under the control of the state central government. We're transferring this right from the district councils to the National Commission for Electricity Regulatory. And I can tell you that this is a question that all governments have asked without exception, all of these issues have been addressed without exception by governments and only the adoption of the relevant law. Today, according to article 66 of the Housing Code, the authority to regulate housing and utility tariffs is secured by the government. But by a certain document, not by law, it was passed on to the local authorities and we “created ” such chaos. And he overthrown not the government of Timoshenko, not the government of Yehanurov, not the government of Yanukovich, but the first governments to do so. And it is vital that this situation be rectified. And so the very first part of this law: urgently, just urgently take this question to the central level and bring it to order with a stiff hand. And if indeed, today this powerful coalition is capable of making order with a hard hand, so do it -- there's nothing wrong with it. The next issue of this law. And when, how and to whom to pay subsidies, if the family fails to cope with these payments. And I'm telling you in a responsible way, because we've analyzed all the laws that apply to this subject without exception, and all the normative acts, today there's no legal limit on how much per cent of the income of an annual family can be community service. This is established by various regulations, by means of regulations. So we're proposing that we don't manipulate subsidies in places, that we don't send every family that came through a big circle to establish a legal rule that no more than 20 percent of the total income of the family could go to community service, and everything else, it dates. There is no such thing in any law, and I am responsible for it. Next question. And actually, how much to raise today, maybe housing-communal tariffs. And this is a question of the third part of this law, because it consists of three points of this law. The third part says that no matter how much we want to raise tariffs, even though there are 10 times a constant of how much society today can pay for these tariffs, and no more. And so today, when we analyzed how housing services are being paid today in all areas of Ukraine, we realized that they are actually paying people from 25 to 30 percent in different areas. And then, today, they twist the hands of local budgets, virtually destroy their spending, and force local budgets to date and pay directly to gas and gas companies, and to companies that supply heat. And basically, the budget is now budgeted for the population, but we know that 95 percent of the local budget is paid exclusively. Where do they get these 1, 2, 3 million dollars for the district budget to supply heat or housing today? And so today, really, even if we set these tariffs, we really can't pay them. And so the third point of this post, this bill we're proposing to set a limit that yes, tariffs need to be raised. But no more than the average wage in the country is rising. Everything else we have with you, not through grants and subsidies, but in the end, so as not to destroy the Naftogaz NAC system, to establish a direct grant from the NAC State budget "Naftogaz" and to level this situation gradually without destroying the financial situation in the country today. And I believe, including the man who worked for both the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister of the Fuel Energy Complex, that this is the only possible path today. Otherwise, the population collects debts to residential enterprises, residential and utility enterprises – NAK Naftogaz, NAK Naftogaz – in front of the budget and Russia. And as a result, we're going to have at least an internal default. I don't think that's the right way. And the opposition, even though it's powerful enough, we're not going to bring this up unless we systematically put in order to regulate all tariff policies in the state. And if his part and his work, and then his gratitude from the people, including him, does not take over. And that's why I don't want to say any words of confrontation to any political power. Because I want our Parliament to have a tradition: when trouble touches everyone, let's finally get this weapon somewhere. And let's take the first step. And if we don't have any interest with you today in what dividends are going to be given to residential utilities in places, well, let's put the order together. Let us unite the factions at the bottom together and show that, as in Kiev, we can do things all over Ukraine. And so I would like to support this bill in the first reading and in general. And hand over to the government the right to order with hard hands for months in this sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u132	Will there be questions? Please press the buttons. Please, six minutes. He's stoned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u133	Please pass the word to Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u134	To whom? Ivan Grigorovich, please. Kirilenko Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u135	Adam Ivanovich, lost a lot, I'd like to add a few seconds. I'd like to pay attention to those speakers that were, the arguments that were cited, the ones that have not yet been said. First. We understand that housing and utilities need to be helped. Friends, remember the old days when winter was over, and after two weeks the cities had been beaten, they were preparing for the next winter. There's no such thing today. Of course, there is not enough money in the budgets, but not at the expense of the population, and not at the expense of 3.5 times. Let's imagine a civilized country where at least 35 percent of those payments went up one minute. The second question. A few years ago, 15 copies of bread prices rose, literally 3-4 bracelets of family loads per month. Today, on average, 300 - 400 percent of the family’s workload has been counted by experts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u136	Ivan Grigorovich, this is a question, please don't speak. It's not a statement yet, it's a question. Gusarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u137	Deputy Gusarov, Party of Regions. Please give the floor to my colleague Anne Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u138	Please, Annie Herman's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u139	Dear Juliet Volodymyrically! You're right about the government's firm hand. It's really solid, but it's also democratic. And perhaps this is why we should not strip off authority in the regions but give them more authority? In this regard. In many areas of Western Ukraine, your authorities have won at local levels. Perhaps they have some interesting tariff experience, and perhaps this experience could be extended throughout Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u140	You know, we're really gathering this experience right now, and for example, we have a great example, this is the Kharkiv area, one of the district councils where a decent person really heads, including, he's a member of the BUT party. That's what they're telling me, the Twin Village. So there is a fine example that man has done. And by the way, this is happening in Kiev. What bribes were made on the ground, owned by the utilities, was closed to the utilities. He shut down the manager himself and put all these questions on auction. In three months, I got 240 percent more income from the budget than planned for the year. In three months. And with a direct grant from these extra revenue he closed everything that needed to be put on people's shoulders. And he created a graph of how to gradually raise housing-communal tariffs. I didn't pick up any of the hot water right now, but I planned it for two years. And two years from now, it's going to come up with the same result that they did on a single day. I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u141	Cowchenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u142	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Julia Vladimirovna, I have the impression that the people will really think that you came here to save the country from the same. from the gas transport system. Now you've solved a problem so easily that the country can't solve for 15 years. Answer me, why did you, as Prime Minister, not solve this problem when you were Prime Minister? Why did you allow Echanurov to raise his tariffs to such an extent that we cannot now remember on the ground from them? Why did you not then, when you had decided not to raise those tariffs? And today, when you're in opposition, suddenly you're smart, and people can really believe that you can solve this problem so easily. Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u143	First, when I was Prime Minister, I didn't have to deal with these crises because we didn't create them. We didn't have a gas price rise. We didn't have any higher prices for residential services. We had a country that worked and lived. And I just want to tell you that at the time, there was a gasoline crisis at 2.90, and today there's a gasoline calm at almost four bracelets. Second: regarding the government of Yehanur. I want to remind you that since our team resigned, we have been in opposition with our own orange team. And Yehanurov was elected a joint Party of Regions and “Our Ukraine” on the basis of the Memorandum between Yanukovic and Viktor Andryovic Yushchenk. And Yehanurov, we didn't just get him out of office, and by the way, our entire faction voted in full, but we released him confidently for "Rosukreenergo" and for the possibility of raising tariffs for "Roskreenergo" conspiracies. By the way, it's a conspiracy from RossUkreenergo.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u144	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u145	Julia Vladimirovna. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. The subject of tariffs is, of course, very relevant, very painful, for many people. But I'm surprised you're actually repeating what people don't do. And I am particularly surprised that you are expanding the functions of the National Electricity Regulatory Commission. You were the energy deputy prime minister, you know that NCRE regulates electricity prices because there are different prices: thermal, atomic and so on, prices that relate to the oil and gas complex and so on. What's with the sewers, the water supply to the NCRE? Explain how NCRE will set tariffs for sewage and water supply.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u146	First, NCRE does not regulate the cost of electricity depending on whether it is of heat or other origin. It sets tariffs for consumers after transporting electricity on local networks. And actually because there's the most abuse there, that's why it analyzes the structure of the self-sustainment that gives us the skyscrapers, not the thermal power plants. And everything about the transfer of heat, water, hot, cold, water, all of this can be introduced at the NCRE level, into a single state algorithm, a program created, and as we have today in gas and electricity. In addition, in heat and hot water and in cold water, there is a large component of the cost of electricity and natural gas. And that is why it is all related, and for NCRE this is absolutely overwhelming, because it has to be unified for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u147	Thank you, sit down, please. Yeah, we'll talk about it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u148	Yes, please sign up for factions. Yes, now to the MPs. Yes, dear colleagues, let us consult. Maybe we can only speak from factions, because we have a different question with you. If we discuss this for a long time, it will be less “different”. Do you mind if they only come from factions, from the Cabinet of Ministers? Oh, no? Okay, please, only factions then. Here I can see that they've signed up for all five of them. Please, Hara. Prepare Wolsey.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u149	Dear colleagues, the Party of the Regions, its faction, does not reject the bill, although I will say straight away that the innovation proposed will not improve the situation in the housing and utility sectors. We suggest we send him back to work. Reasons. First, if we monopolize, as before, the setting of tariffs will at least distance the perpetrators of all these troubles from the population and talk to the people on the ground no longer with anyone, everyone will sneeze at Kiev. Secondly, we remember the procedures that were before in Kiev or Moscow, and then in Kiev, for any village, for any city, for any area, the rules of the game, which was wrong. The Act is proposed to enter into force from the date of its adoption. Good people, if functions are to be transferred to NCRE, the first is to amend the Housing and Communal Services Laws, local self-government, local public administrations, natural monopolies, the State Code and so on. It's not done in 30 seconds. Second, in the country of 5,747 heat suppliers and 6,139 water and sanitation facilities of various forms of ownership. If these enterprises are to deal with NCREs, money is needed to build structures, finance structures and at least two years, according to experts, to put everyone in place and those structures begin to work. The issue of grants, respected by colleagues, has already been resolved by the Cabinet of Ministers. The State budget provides for the necessary funds and no problems. Not only should the lower-paid population pay up to 20 per cent of the total domestic income, but the Cabinet has reduced this standard, and the particularly poor population should pay no more than 15 per cent of the total tax. By the way, for the first time in all years, huge funds are now available to support the housing and utility sectors. There is a questionable link between rising prices for utility payments at the rate of growth in wages in the economy. We have a wage increase of between 25 and 30 percent a year. Let's see, what about the other industries? And the growth of pensions? How will that be for the population, fair or unfair? What about money for a community housing industry that's been breathing down the mud for a long time? Finally, it is ready to adopt a Decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, which establishes strict control over the establishment of economically sound housing and utility tariffs in accordance with article 31 of the Housing and Communal Services Act. This bill, as it is, will not only solve the problem of utility prices, but will add even more chaos to the problem. Therefore, there is a proposal to send him for further refinement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u150	Please, Volga, the Socialist faction. Prepare Skutkak, Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u151	Dear voters, dear colleagues! What we cannot disagree with is that the issue of municipal tariffs should indeed be one that unites the political forces to resolve the issue. No doubt about it. But something tells me, Julia Volodymyrically, that this is a question that you're raising right now for what is really a question of legal cassuistics that we're not going to be able to solve right now, and you, when you go out behind these walls, you're going to say that they're so bad, they don't want to decide. Our faction will now insist that we send questions to refinement. And if we really approach that question as you say, if you've buried your tomahawk somewhere, and we can work systematically, we might have something to do with it. Yes, there is no doubt that much has been done in Kiev to make life easier for the Chinese. No doubt. But now the possibility of setting tariffs, setting tariffs in different regions – how can this be? I just got back from the Plains nuclear station. Yes, people are in difficult conditions that live there, but there's electricity, there's heat, it's much cheaper. We have points that we're going to need to figure out, a few thousand can't handle this NCRE. The second question. The question is that the vast number of heat-communeers in utility property, heat-communeers and water-channels -- they're leased. In what way now, when the Constitution guarantees the right to property of different people -- state property, municipal property, private property, how we can now tell them how to use our property. There's a question. And so, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, as always, consistently stands for the issue of the failure to raise municipal tariffs or, if already raised municipal tariffs, within the limits that people can pay. That's the first one. The other one. We're sitting down, if we've buried the cannons, the tomahawks and everything else at this time, at this point, we're sitting down, we're creating a working group, and we're finding a way out of this legal casework. Yes, if we really work systematically, I think by sending this law to work out, we'll be able to find this solution with you within a week, two, three. Although it will surely have to make a number of amendments to the laws that we have to make that law and act without delay. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u152	Please, Skutak, our Ukraine faction. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u153	I would like to say, Mr President, that the faction “Our Ukraine” will support this bill in the first reading and I would like to say a few words in essence. But a few, just one sentence. As far as the government of Yehanurov is concerned, Ukrainian citizens are well aware that by August 4, no changes in tariffs had been made while the government of Yehanurov. And you don't have to translate from a sick person's head into a healthy problem. Second question, second question, second question. With regard to even the rise that was made in the past in early 2006, a rise in prices was made by Russia, Russia, in the price of gas. Even under the conditions that were raised, and you know the conditions in which the government of Yehanurov was then working, when the gas was cut off for Europe, and at that time in Europe and Ukraine there were 30-degree ice creams, and what could it have done for all of us, for all of us, if we hadn't accepted those harsh but still conditions that Russia had put in place at that time. Even then, the tariffs were not changed for the population. So I'd like to ask that we don't say these things here. Now, as far as this bill is concerned. So there's absolutely no need to manipulate it. The central authority of the executive branch of electricity regulation forms state policy within its competence. State policy on this issue should also be that it does not exist today, it is not even a matter of legislation, because even today's legislation allows us to occupy and have a state policy on this issue, although it is committed and perhaps even right that some issues should be the responsibility of local self-government authorities, because they are essentially, these services-providing enterprises are communal property of territorial communities or local self-government. But there has to be a state policy. Although we have an inspection of prices today, the Antimonopoly Committee, a sea of controlling organizations that do not want to do anything to ensure that fair tariffs are set. So I think in the first reading we need to adopt a bill, some details to complete, and it will work to bring the tariffs to order in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u154	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Prepare Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u155	The issue of public utility tariffs is a very relevant issue. It's about, first of all, housing and utilities on the verge of destruction, you know. The second aspect of the problem is the level of income of the population. But in the way in which we are asked to address this issue today, this issue will not be resolved, not what cannot be resolved, it will not be resolved. The National Electricity Regulatory Commission operates under the Electricity Act, and it has defined that this central authority has certain functions related to the fact that we have electricity produced on heat, on nuclear, on hydropower plants, we need to average, we need to set the price for delivery and so on, so on. I do not see how the Electricity Act can introduce a provision concerning sewerage, water supply and so on. The other thing that the communists are offering to solve the problem of utility payments, and our proposals have already been made on several occasions in this room, they sound on local councils where communists are seeking tariff reductions. In particular, Julia Vladimirovna, you probably don't know, in the Blissniks, this is the Kharkiv region, including in the District Council, the Deputy Chief of the Regional Council of Communists, there is no innovation, there is no tariff on the warmth of the Blisniukovsky Village Council twice. 31 kopecks were, today 61 kopecks, no innovations, you're being misled, you're being deceived, and that's why you don't look very good here, you have to say what you know. Therefore, there is a proposal of communists that can be implemented and they have been heard at the meeting of the four committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which were convened at the initiative of Raisa Botirevo. And the committee in question, whose chairman has reported today, knows our proposal. Indeed, tariff calculation should be centralized. What costs are included in the tariff, and what costs of the utility by its own profit or public funding are directly what the communists offer. Second. We must not take responsibility from local councils for how they manage. There are about 20,000 local councillors in the BUIT. Can you tell me where the bums voted against the tariffs? I'll tell you, in Kharkiv County, in the city of Harkov, we had a scandalous question, on many occasions, only the communists raised the issue of the need to avoid tariffs. The former supported the mayor and voted against the question of the revision of the tariffs on non-increasing. Let's move on. That's 20 percent of the income. Indeed, the entire population is stagnant because subsidies are currently being charged on the basis of 20 per cent of the population's income. The Communists have already made a proposal, it is already in Parliament, to reduce to 10, although today the Janukovič Government has dropped to 15. That's 20 percent, provided that you have to live for the rest of the money, not a really high figure, but you, Yulia Vladimirovna, are trying and proposing to legitimize it. There is no way to do that. As far as the last position is concerned, tariffs should not be growing faster than they were.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u156	Have a seat, please. Eugene Suslov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u157	Dear colleagues! You know, I'm looking at the hall, and a lot of the members of the faction "Regions" were taking part in protecting the leadership of the Kiev administration and the leadership of Kiev when our faction blocked the Kievrada session in order to reduce tariffs. I turned off the light and so on and so forth. I want to ask you, not just to cut tariffs, you have to block, you have to beat, you have to turn out the light, and so on. Don't we have no more authority in Ukraine, my dear colleagues? Let us be responsible, regardless of who the political power is, for our position as national deputies. We are representatives of the legislature, the authorities in Ukraine must act and, above all, not in the interests of officials, nor in the interests of corporations, but in the interests of citizens who have entrusted them to us to represent them in this room. That's the first one. That's why the tariff issue concerns everyone. There is no region where people are concerned. Second, respectable colleagues. We don't deny how the communists have suggested that we reduce from 20 to 15 and by 10, we're ready to lower and vote 10 percent when you're able to vote in the room right now. Let's not deny and support your proposal: 10 percent vote and see how you vote. Next, with regard to the rights of local authorities and so on. I mean, the honourable representatives of the anti-crisis coalition: when you're able to work, please work and take responsibility, not capable, free your seat and we'll show you how to do this. After the usurpation. I answer to those who do not know Ukrainian legislation. Please open the Housing Code, I emphasize, open the Housing Code, please read what this document says -- it's the Law, I'll remind you who doesn't know. It states that responsibility, article 5, part one and article 31, “for the formation of tariff policy belongs to the central authorities of the executive branch”. Who doesn't know what the central authorities of executive power are, please take a dictionary, leave and you can find it there. Therefore, respectable colleagues should not hide from responsibility, nor should responsibility be transferred to local authority. There must be a government, a tariff policy, a state must be responsible for the fact that citizens can live, they can pay, they can eat. And that's why it's an offer to accept this Law. When the Cabinet of Ministers thinks that NCRE another body, please make suggestions, we will support them, but do not hide, but work. So, honourable colleagues, we offer, regardless of political sympathy, regardless of who loves the people more, who less, simply take and vote. This will be the only criterion for our citizens and this will be the only criterion that testifies to our position as MPs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u158	Please, the factions are speaking. I give the floor to Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u159	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In fact, today we are looking at one of the most painful issues for our state -- services, housing and utility tariffs. And I would very much like us not to play on people's feelings, but from a professional point of view, to look at the problems that are today in housing. And I'd love to, something a lot here is going on by those who were in power and didn't know what housing is, and today they're reforming. Stop reforming words, let's look at the problems that are, this is the very big sector in Ukraine, a million workers, 14,000 enterprises that can set tariffs for 14 thousand enterprises. You tell me, the specifics are in every region and in every city, there are no territorial units that we have 2-3 years now, these organs are creating why this is being made, because it's not even possible to consider. But the government takes control of this problem, there's a draft government decision, there's a State Committee on Prices and Prices, we'll take over on the following Sunday's decision of the Cabinet of Ministers, and this committee, having structures in every area, will deal with these issues, and the local authorities will agree on these tariffs. As for today’s accusations of city mayors or government, it was not necessary in the first half of 2006, when a stable price for gas was set and raised by 110 percent. And you put the mayors of cities in this position, who have nothing left to do to raise tariffs. Then blame yourself, not the mayor, or the government that came in August of the month to work. As far as subsidies are concerned, the government today has no city to say: “The government does not grant subsidies”. Subsidies are paid in full and no complaints from local authorities are available where the government would not fulfill its responsibilities. So let's, if we work professionally, we'll look at this project and then we'll look at it. So let's take this project off the table today, and we're not going to lead people astray. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u160	Yes, please. The reporter asks for the word for the closing statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u161	Reacting to a government official who just with such a peaceable, sweet voice sang something here, I just want to say that they've been in power since August, and they're already furious in the yard, and they're all measured as a job on tariffs to start. If they continue to measure up, children will not be born in the country because they are measured for a long time. I want to tell you that, in fact, I remind this completely incompetent government that they raised the gas from the 95th that Yehanurov set up, and by the way, I have 50, because with Ehanur, 95. To make life better, this government has made 130! And then they cry and regret the mayors so much that they simply take envy as they wish! You simply say that you are incompetent and that even if you are offered a normal law, you do not even have the inspiration and conscience to accept even another person’s work if you cannot do so. On the other hand, I reiterate that today there were two suggestions in the discussions. First offer. Out of 30 percent, the offer of communists, 10 percent reduce that part of the income of a family that can be used for residential services. Now, as the author of this law, I support this proposal, please put in a transcript, the offer of the communists is accepted. We're ready to do this. The other one. It was an offer to amend the law for further processing. I know that there are many young deputies here in the hall who have come on such special quotas. I want to remind you that the law can be worked out after the first reading, because after the first reading, the law doesn't become law, and I'm just telling you, the Rules, please, and it works normally on committees and factions and on the second reading, the amended law is passed. So if you want to work on it, you have to vote for the first reading. And if you just want to talk about it, you have to go to work, because, in fact, how many of those winters are already springtime. And by the way, spring will win. Please support this bill in the first reading, and this is actually how you start working together on this issue of tariffs. If the Communists don't now support their own proposal, and the Socialists don't support their own proposal for work after the first reading, then I don't understand what this parliament wants.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u162	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u163	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. You know, it's very good that right in the room you see the arguments that should have been known to the person who was the prime minister of energy before. But the point is that it is not possible to adopt a proposal concerning NCRE on first reading today because, once again, the proposal concerning NCRE is contrary to, firstly, the existing electricity law. We voted with you yesterday on the first reading of the NCRE bill, which means it's a sewer, which is the same thing as telling ballerina that you're doing a welding machine. So, I suggest, Julia Vladimirovna, you have a good idea: limit your income to 10 percent, as the communists say. Complete the bill and we will vote 100 percent. I invite the faction of the author to finalize the bill as a matter of urgency and to put it into the room, and we will necessarily vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u164	Yes, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. Dear colleagues! I'm gonna say it again. Dear colleagues! Look, please look at the Rules, where it says, if the speaker calls one, there is the answer, and so on, so to speak, we will now call each other 10 times and we will be infinite. All right, we're done here. The discussion is over! Please, let's sum it up. First. The government has already said, no one will talk anymore. I repeat, no one else will speak but the presiding officer. First. I'd like to ask, dear fellows, not to mention what kind of government it was, because today, 130, and tomorrow, there will be a government with 230. 50 will be gone. So please be careful with these numbers. And especially to those who claim to run the government again. The other one. The fact that you and I are dealing today with a problem that affects everyone and everyone’s interests is beyond question. What we need to look closely, to check, to establish the correctness of the prices and tariffs that we are paying today, this, I see, is not denied by Parliament, this is not denied by the government, and we know that is not denied by the President. I mean, we're the only ones in this and let's really do this in order. Another important observation. Hearing about the need to transfer the body that in principle cannot set the prices for garbage, although it can also be said that electricity is being used there, because it is necessary to export or process the waste, to ask more, to look at local councils: or whether they agree to give these problems to the central authority. I highly doubt it. Wait, please. Do you want to hear it or do you want to vote? It's your right. I mean, do local councils want to agree that their prices are set in Kiev? Hardly. And the last. I would like to stress once again that the law has the right to life, that everything needs to be verified and calculated and voted. Now we're going to vote, and now we're going to vote. I see you want to vote. I'm putting it to a vote. I am voting: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Act No 3069: amending the Housing Services Act of Ukraine. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:35:44]] For-198 Not accepted. The factions. Region Party – 0, Block Timoshenko – 118, “Our Ukraine” – 76, Socialists – 2, Communists – 0, “Afterfractional” – 2. There was a proposal that I think is worth paying attention to: to get the law to be amended. This is in line with those, again, using the terminology of young people’s deputies, is the 100th article of the Rules that speaks of it. I repeat, article 109: “The outcome of the first reading of the bill. As a result of the first reading of the bill, the Supreme Council may decide: firstly, to adopt the bill as a basis; secondly, to reject the bill; thirdly, to return the bill to the subject's right to legislative initiative for further elaboration, or to refer it to the Main Committee for the preparation of the first reading, defining the main positions. [[We've already voted on this.]] Fourthly, the publication of a bill defined by the Supreme Council printed and so on and so forth. So, Sergey Volodymyrovich, believe me, I don't know you any worse than the Rules because we wrote it together. I am proposing the return of the draft law to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Please vote. For processing. [[13:37:31]] For 224 The factions, please. Region Party - 0, Block Timoshenko - 115, Our Ukraine - 76, Socialists - 13, Communists -18, non-fractional - 2. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? I'd like to make a statement. [[13:38:09]] For 214 We're not back. Come on, dear fellows. Listen, please. Listen to me, please. I would very much ask both the Cabinet of Ministers and the representatives of all factions, I would like to stress once again, that we are all interested in making order of this issue. Let's be together in the near future, together with the government, together with the government, we'll meet with the faction leaders, the heads of the profiling committees, to produce a single approach. Is that accepted? Thank you. Yes, please sign up for "Virgin." Please, it's been recorded. Let me see. And there's 45 minutes on the board because we took part of the time. Please, Boki. Prepare the Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u165	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to consider that Anatoly Alexanderovich is a rich man before me. It's written down by the third.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u166	Okay. Ivan Sidorovich, I'm sorry, I'm going to take some time from you, because the rich man has given you six minutes, come on. And get the rich girl off the list. Please, whoever wants to tell someone, take the notes yourself, don't make me write. Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u167	Thank you. A statement to the political Socialist Party of Ukraine and the parliamentary faction of socialists about some adventures. The Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Socialist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine consider it necessary to make a statement on the disclosure of the declaration signed by the People's Deputies Timoshenko and Kirilenko as follows: First, the political forces can form a union in Parliament, different in form and strength. We welcome the wish of the signatories to the declaration of joint opposition in Parliament to exercise this right. The appearance of such a statement is a practical implementation of the destabilization programme of the political situation led by the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, a component of which is the pressure on Parliament by the opposition MPs. The existence of such a plan of action is not a mystery, coordination is observed between street actions and the activity of parliamentary opposition in the sequence of reporting events in certain media. One thing is surprising: all of this is done under the direct direction of the President's apparatus by state officials at the same time as the Head of State's statements on consolidation, cooperation and democracy. Third, the statement is based on false arguments that are cited in order to justify their position and intentions. This is particularly the case with regard to the betrayal of the Socialist Party of Ukraine by its constituents as the cause of the breakup of the coalition of democratic forces. We have heard the lies of the moment, and the truth is, who betrayed them is already known. And soon more will be known. The coalition broke down because of the incompatibilities of the people who wanted power in “Our Ukraine” and BUIT. The entire three-month era of coalition struggle was the attempt of our Ukrainians to regain all the power they had before the elections and to bring about changes to the Constitution of Ukraine. Julia Timoshenko herself hindered them in this desire. And she spoke frankly about this role of "Our Ukraine" in the last session of Parliament's second session. The blame of the new authorities for the unprecedented rise in prices and tariffs. Prices really went up. But they have been raised in a number of previous cabinets, including the prices of meat to the present - day extent since the premiere of Yulia Timoshenko. On the contrary, the anti-crisis government has taken measures to differentiate the prices of gas for the population, provided for compensation to citizens for the cost of utilities. As far as ignoring the Constitution, the laws, the trampling of the right of opposition, it seems, are being done. This is, of course, a demagogy that is not supported by any example. Personnel clearance was done two years ago when all power was concentrated in the hands of the President. Local administrations are now subject to it. And the change in some of the management devices in some departments is small, motivated by objective needs, and does not compare with what has been done recently. The real reason for a joint statement and the real intentions of its authors are long known: to cancel the changes to the Constitution and to seek the dissolution of Parliament. Both common, though dangerous, adventures. It is not surprising that our Ukrainians contradict themselves. They voted in favour of amendments to the Constitution and received their President instead. Surprisingly, they do not want to see their total defeat caused by today’s opposition partners in the event of imaginary elections. Ukrainian Socialists warn society of the adventurous nature of the actions of those who call for resistance, destabilization, to the so - called spring offensive. Behind the crash that is being followed, the Sabbath is not a concern for the fate of the people, nor for the formation of a controlling people of the local authorities. It's not about sovereignty and citizens' rights, it's about the greed of power. Authorities for the pleasure of their own, first of all business, interests. We are surprised that such obvious things do not want to be noticed by President Viktor Yushchenko, whose name is speculated by loving friends, undermining his authority and authority of the Ukrainian State. If all of this is done with his consent, we feel sorry for both the President and the people, the people whose interests stood and the socialists stood. I'll tell you what. BUTE and “Our Ukraine” are unfortunately published as a political masterpiece. And soon the people will have to distinguish the known object from the malaise. There's no other way. And as for the election, well, here's the only thing to say. Who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who, who,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u168	Thank you. Yes, the time is united between the widow and Grigorovich. Grigorovich will be speaking for six minutes. Please. Bogchuk conveys the word Mendushu. Get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u169	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters! Needless to say, it is not necessary to overwhelm or feel sorry for or compassion for the Ukrainian people who have made their choice, or for the Ukrainian President who has been elected, or for any political power. First of all, we need to be compassionate to those who, publicly and publicly, stand in the positions of the democratic orange coalition, break the word, move into the Antichrist coalition, and then speak in public at once. People's wisdom says, "The liar eats a fist once." This is worth remembering. Nevertheless, I would like to speak up and address the entire Ukrainian community that is hearing us today on a more important topic. Today we live in Parliamentary, not even Parliamentary Presidential, but Prime Ministerial dictatorship. There are a number of problems that are really urgent. Once the voters heard that winter was coming to an end, however, the communal payments that now plague every family did not become the subject of active consideration and decision-making for the Ukrainian Parliament, with the exception of 2-3 percent of the oligarchs. At the same time, what concerns the majority today, the crisis majority? Today, the crisis is a major concern of the foreign policy course, the doctrine or concept of our external political progress. It seems to me that more important problems should be addressed, but no. The fact is that we do not have a foreign minister today, but we want to accept a doctrine urgently. I would like to point out that Ukraine's course is understood and chosen nationally and legitimately, most generally of all the last elections we remember, the elected President of Ukraine has determined that Ukraine is going to Europe. It goes to Europe primarily after those Eurostandarts called European wages, which are called European social standards of life, ultimately European standards of conduct and culture. I would like to emphasise that on January 1st of this year, Bulgaria and Romania became full members of the European Union and took an important step towards uniting all European countries into a single family. The faction "Our Ukraine" welcomes the Bulgarian and Romanian nations on the occasion of joining the European Union and completing the club of countries with democracy and high standards of living. At the same time, we believe that Europe will never be united without joining the European Union of Ukraine, which is the geographical center of Europe. It is also important to note that the accession to the European Union, according to the practice of recent enlargements of the EU, follows the accession to NATO. The Ukrainians passed their test of Europeanism on an orange field and did not deviate from it when they democratically and peacefully upheld their right to freely choose the head of state, establish freedom of speech and democratic values. According to sociological surveys conducted in the European Union, the vast majority of citizens of the European Union support the full membership of Ukraine in the European Union. Among our immediate neighbours, particularly in Poland, this support for Ukraine’s Euro-Integration Streats is 80 percent. The same is true in Ukraine, where most citizens support the European choice of Ukraine. Today the problem is not in the civic position of the Ukrainian people and citizens, but today the political will of the ruling coalition and the government, which claim to be a European choice, is actually driving their own vassal backs to the Eastern neighbour. After all, the problem today is the quality, morality, and legitimacy of today’s Ukrainian authorities. It is really far from European standards. The faction "Our Ukraine" states that the departure from Ukraine's Euro-Integration Course contravenes the Ukrainian National Security Fundamentals Act, the state-wide programme for adapting Ukraine's legislation to EU legislation, the Ukrainian President's course, the Universal National Unity. Stop acting out of the Ukrainian people. After all, representatives of the governing coalition, including most oligarchs, have long lived by European standards, are resting in European resorts, and are riding very European cars. The "Our Ukraine" faction wants it to be the same for every 47 million citizens in our country. And so, we will consistently stand up for the European and Euro-Atlantic choices of Ukraine, because only this course will bring prosperity to our people, a guarantee of security from external intervention. A few more words about the same Europeanness. The word, for politicians in Europe, means a great deal. Unfortunately, the fifth call we made to Parliament was that no one kept their word — they were lying. They're cut off from the highest official, and so on and so on, all the way to petty officials, and there, behind the windows, civil society, which two years ago told forgeries -- no, no, no, no, no, no. And the question is, if 30 to 40 percent of our citizens don't believe anyone, if that's not the reason to think about Ukrainian politics and start to answer for their words, that life is no longer better today, that the Universal is signed under the music cameras, and then it's broken that they're not voting together, but at the same time. So today the position of Ukrainian society is more European and moral in the sense that they are civilized and honest, and it seems to me that very many of the policies that are sitting in the session room should be equal to that of our Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u170	Jaroslav Mendoza, get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u171	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, has recently encountered problems in some matters of the foreign policy of our nation. Regrettably, internal political scandals undermine the authority of the Ukrainian authorities abroad. An example of this was the announcement by a non-gray member of the Russian Federation, Peter Poroshenko, who was authorized by the authority of the Russian Federation. Peter Alexiyovich is known as one of the leaders of the Party “Our Ukraine” and as the closest associate of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. There is no doubt that the announcement of Peter Dustenk by a non-grat person is a very eloquent and scandalous gesture that requires proper attention. The Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot pass past the restriction on the access of Ukrainian officials to the territory of the neighbouring State. This issue should be considered both by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and by the Supreme Council’s Professional Committee. The recent administrative chaos in Ukraine's foreign policy leadership has led to the fact that a non-grat person has been announced by a representative of “Our Ukraine”, whose supporters are in fact in control of political authority. The sanctions against Dusty is another example of the fact that today's Ukrainian-Russian relations are far from normal neighbourly. The Prashenko scandal reminds us of the urgent need to put in order and to learn how to advertise non-grats of foreign politicians in Ukraine. The hasty actions of the leaders of our foreign policy at the President’s and ICC secretariat have already led to humiliating scandals involving visits to Ukraine by the Turkmen and Uzbek opposition. There is no doubt that the issue of non-grat adverting in Ukraine and Vladimir Girinovski should also be considered. In spite of the ambiguity of the perception of this figure in Ukraine, it is obvious that this person today is the vice-speaker of the State Duma of the Russian Federation. It is obviously important to determine whether Ukrainian leadership should be advertised by non-grats personnel by one of the leaders of the highest legislative body of the neighbouring state. Please consider my address as an official address to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine regarding the provision of comprehensive information to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the incident with our colleague, Peter Alexiyovich Poroshenko. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u172	Andrew Schlell. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u173	The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! Honorable People’s Deputies! But the main thing, respected radio audiences and television audiences, is that it is always good to act first and to analyze predecessors’ performances. So, of course, he just senses the concern of the previous speaking member of one of the national MPs. But on the other hand, we can't be surprised by the information that we have to treat Vladimir Wolfovich Girinowski differently. It's our problem that he's the vice-speaker of the neighbouring state. These are the problems of a state where a man of clear anti-Ukrainian, xenophobic views is a vice-speaker. That's why we have to get out of here like this. I'm sure by this proposal, plus they were appropriate, clear, clear, black and white, anti-state statements by this vice-speaker, and that's why it happened. And if the right statements were Dusty, well, let's read, let's hear who knows him, maybe he said it in secret somewhere. But that's not the point of my speech. Nevertheless, I would like to return to internal and external politics. This internal policy was clearly demonstrated today by the non-voting of representatives of the Communist Party and the Socialist Party for social law. And the explanation was simple, because we're not his authors, and the Cabinet of Ministers asked something there not to vote so. This is not a position of political power, but the political power must follow clearly the ideals on which this political power was created. And these ideals, and these ideals are called ideology. That's why we have to stand here clearly and clearly, so it's going to bring about the discomfort of being in one coalition or another, but we have to vote honestly and there's corporate unity to nothing, because it's bad for everyone in the East, the West, the Centre, the South and the North of Ukraine with utility tariffs. And it was suggested that we make it clear that growth is dependent on wage growth. This is an absolutely transparent, clear and European legislative act. Now, about foreign policy. Of course, when it comes to foreign policy, it comes down to whether it is in the EP or NATO. There are supporters of some kind of neutrality. I don't know, without an army, without security services, virtually without external intelligence, we can talk about neutrality. We can, but within one federation or another, for example. So we need to approach this completely pragmatically. Who can guarantee the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Speaking of the Budapest Protocol, you've talked about this a number of times. And Russia was only building for the best, or one of the governors of Russia, a dam to Tuzla. That's why it's a clear definition of priorities. Either we're going to democracy, or we're going to free society, or we're going to anti-democracy, and we're going to a dependent society. And all the members of the coalition have to give these answers. Because in the future, they're going to live in that state, and they're going to choose where, in totalitarian or democratic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u174	Bubbles, please. Prepare Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u175	Dear national MPs, distinguished voters! Ten years ago, a huge affair was halted in connection with Russian gas supplies to Ukraine. It was based on the fact that then Prime Minister Paul Lazarenko unlawfully gave State guarantees to pay for the Russian gas received by the Ukrainian commercial structures. According to the President, the assurances given by the government in secret to certain commercial structures have turned out to be hundreds of millions of dollars stolen. As a result, Ukraine received a huge external and internal debt. What, then, were the commercial structures that were happy with State guarantees? Later in an interview with the American newspaper The New Russian Word, Lazarenko quoted me as saying literally: “There was a structure behind which there is no structure in Ukraine, the only energy systems. ” What did those guarantees foresee? I quote, again, in the original language: “The Government of Ukraine provides the RAO Gazprom with a guarantee for the supply of natural gas to Ukraine of a monthly amount of two and a half billion cubic metres, at the cost of two hundred million dollars, this, I repeat, “in the form of goods from the State reserves of Ukraine under the following nomenclature”. Keep going. A list of what should be expected of Ukraine in the event of a failure to implement the agreements made by the only energy systems. And Ukraine was counting. All these things are known. I just reminded you of the details and details, reading the documentary “Colonel Omelchenko and his team on former high-ranking workers”. “The investigation and the court still need to find out the full amount of astronomical sums that have been earned by the Lazarusians, the Tymichens and others”, the author wrote. And now, hearing from the lady of the gas princess the accusation of everyone and everything, of mental and unthinkable sins, it makes me sad, as a minimum. There is no doubt that power must be controlled, but woe to the nation of the State, where opposition operates in such immoral ways, when there is no other argument besides lying, when the only ideology is naked populism, life by principle: the worse the people are, the more likely they are to return to power that they have lost so freely, which they have so freely managed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u176	Quality, please. Prepare the Prince.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u177	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction “Our Ukraine”. Respectable compatriots! Each day in the power of the antichrist coalition reinforces the process of redistribution of power and property, accompanied by violently wrongful phenomena. The Supreme Council received a call from the working group of the study “Ukratelefilm” on the wrong actions of the leadership of the State Committee on Television and Radio Broadcasting in Ukraine. They report that the UK’s Chief Audit Authority carried out a 30-day audit of the financial, economic and financial activities of the “Cultelefilm” during its 30 working days. In line with the findings of the audit act, violations were detected that were completely eliminated during the verification process. Upon completion of this audit, Derzkomtelaradio was assigned another audit of the financial and economic activity of the study, but already by the working group Derzkomteleradio, after which, on the basis of an act of verification, which was not referred to as a guide to the “Criminal Film” for study, the State Department of Technology and the subsequent release of 111 employees of the “Criminal Film” studio. The working group of the study has challenged the decision of the Dercomteleradio on the appointment of a test, and considers that the order of the Statecomtoregio to reorganise the study by merging it with the aforementioned Bureau “Photo” and the dismissal of employees is illegal because it was issued on the basis of an act of illegal verification. The working group also raises questions about the illegality of the release of the Director - General of the Ukrainian Television Film Studio by prominent director Bima Oleg Ivanovic, who was at the hospital at the time preparing for surgery. It should also be noted that during Oleg Bima's stay at the hospital, the staff of Derzcomteleradio exerted psychological pressure on his mother, an 84-year-old woman who, after such visits, had to call for “quick help” and only had her life saved at the right time. By the way, it's about the widow of the Hero of the Soviet Union, I'm reminding you that John Beima first entered Kiev on a tank, liberating the capital of Ukraine from the German occupation. I address those for whom, for ideological reasons, there is no respect for Ukrainian culture, who deny Ukrainians the right to cherish their native language and protect national information space, who do not recognize the merit of Oleg Bijma. Have mercy on the widow of the veterans, on whose behalf you have the right to speak constantly. We demand that the government pay attention to the work force of the study as well as to use it. We demand that the measures provided for by law be taken to ensure that all parties to the conflict meet the requirements of effective legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u178	Knyazevich, please. Follow him, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u179	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I'd like to get everyone back to yesterday's situation around the appointment of Vice Prime Minister on a general level. Personally, I have no claim to Mr. Slauti's character, and I would not even like to go back to the order of his appointment: to violate the relevant rules of the Rules when the matter was not even included in the agenda. Another question that I would just like to bring you back to the time when today's government was appointed, early in August-month. And then this position, which was in the previous government, was canceled with the argument that it's just ineffective because it duplicates all powers together with the acting minister and thus disorganizes the industry. I recall very well the position of the Communist faction, who was delegating Minister Melnik, that it was the person who worked as vice-premier who, in his professional capacity, was able to set up an appropriate regulatory policy in the field without the help of a person who would really prevent him from doing so. I just don't understand why the Communist faction didn't worry last night, because it was actually dissipating its previous assignment, and Mr. Melnik thus turned out to be a hostage of an incomprehensible situation. What's more, as I understand it, is the question of simply, simply, in the orange past of the minister. And here we need to be aware that we must have the patronage of a pre - Christian senior partner who will control the situation in the field, and this has no bearing on the minister’s expertise. And here we all need to stand up for him. I think this policy will continue. We still have a vice-premier on security issues to control the last gravester, Mr. Grizzenck of the Orange. Apparently, the next is the vice-premier on medical matters, and so on and so forth. I just want to say that there's already, you know, a limit to conscious and unconscious. We have six vice-premiers. You've driven the whole world away. And that's embarrassing. Here we're always talking about the experience of the Russian Federation, which is huge in volume and size of the economy, which has just two vice-premiers. I don't want to be an example of others. You know, I just realize that there's a lot of people in the Donetsk region and a lot of professional people, but that doesn't mean that they should all be in the government in vice-premier positions. It's come to the point that we don't have a place where the government sits for the prime ministers. And they, I don't know how they're going to have to get out of the situation. Or extra places, or maybe we'll get to the full frost when the vice-premiers sit in each other's hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u180	Don't worry, you'll get settled. It's important to keep things orderly. Easy. Locked.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u181	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Just before me, a representative of the faction of the anti-crisis coalition sent another bucket of dirt and lies to our leader of the Julia Volodymyrný Timoshenko faction. I want the Ukrainians to understand why this is happening and why the slanders against Julia Timoshenko are again. Yesterday, according to the insistence of our faction in Parliament, changes were voted on the basics of health legislation that we gave back to the legal rights of the country’s doctors. This is about tens of thousands of people. Today, Timoshenko urged Parliament to consider a bill that limited the appetites of owners of residential offices, which allowed people to pay services at affordable prices. Unfortunately, the antichrist coalition did not support this bill under the illusion that it was meant to be worked out. But the anti-crisis coalition is really pissed off that the Yulia Timoshenko faction in Parliament really protects people's interests, and they're just talking. And when there is a real vote, the whole country sees that they don't vote for a bill that makes people's lives easier. I want to say it separately, and the whole country knows it, but for the unrememberable representatives of the anti-crisis coalition, I want to say in a row that all the accusations that are being made to Timoshenko's address are all being refuted by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. For ten years Kuchma blamed her, God knows what to do just to humiliate the leader of the opposition and not allow people to get a proper perspective on who cares about the country’s interests. After the orange revolution, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, composed of two Supreme Court chambers, this is more than 40 judges, closed the criminal case against Timoshenko. And all the hundreds of volumes that the D.A. ordered Kuchma to collect over the course of 10 years turned out to be dust. The case is closed because of the absence of a crime scene. So I don't think it's right for the anti-crisis coalition to take care of people's interests, pour dirt on their opponents, and humiliate a woman and a political leader who isn't in the country. Thank you for your attention. And it never will be -- you say it right, a Communist MP, and it never will be! For now, considering how you do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u182	Take it further. What are you restricting to Ukraine? Locked, please. Prepare Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u183	Locked up, Communist faction. Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios! Another problem affecting the lives and health of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens is described in a letter that the electorates handed me. I want to read it. “Dear Valery Gabrielovna! Members of the College of the Institute of Surgery and Transplantology of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, the country’s leading medical science centre, are addressing you. We cannot remain indifferent to the fate of our institution, since it is inseparably linked to the future Ukrainian surgery, health and life of thousands of people who need our help. We refer to you as a people's deputy, because we remember about a year ago the persecution against the leadership of the Russian Lassie Theatre was organized, and only through initiative, enthusiasm and personal support has it been possible to preserve the collective and its creative potential. Today, a similar situation lies in our institution. On 27 December 2006, the contract was terminated with the director of the Institute, a world-renowned surgeon, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine, the laureate of the USSR and Ukraine State Prizes, the President of the Association of Surgeons of Ukraine, the editor-in-chief of the Journal of Clinical Surgery, Professor Saenko Valeri Fedoseevich, a person who brought the Institute to an international level by the quality and complexity of unique operations carried out in the field of liver and gastric transplantation, heart and kidney transplants, the current direction in surgery, continued the tradition of the founder of the Institute, Akadakadaka Shalimov. The Director of the Institute's name is artificially created by a climate of mistrust, discrediting his opinion, and introducing additional positions of alternate from persons who do not correspond to the level of the leading surgical institution, but who claim to lead the Institute. A 19-year-old man who ran the institute without any comment in the wake of the creative forces, full plans and prospects, supported not only by a collective of the Institute, but also by all Ukrainian surgeons who had elected him president of the Association of Surgeons a year ago, pointed to the door. Is there an explanation for this that we would not be ashamed of, surgeons who fight day and night for people’s lives and far from all kinds of political intrigue? Signatures of leading Institute leaders, Institute staff. On the basis of the foregoing, I appeal to the President, the Government, the Ministry of Health, the Academy of Medical Sciences, to intervene immediately in the current situation and to prevent the further execution of certain persons from politics, not medicine, over the recognized world.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u184	Thank you. That's right, on the one hand, but unfortunately, we have a lot of self-governance. I mean, there's hardly any way that Kabmin can help. It really needs to be addressed to the Academy of Medical Sciences itself, because it's a self-governance organization. Santa Claus, please. Behind him is Cibenko instead of Borschevsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u185	Fracion of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadov. Dear chairman, distinguished TV listeners. We live in an interesting and extremely tragic period for the Ukrainian people. Interestingly, events change every day, and the tragedy is that there is a policy of deception among people and voters. From the Supreme Council’s rostrum, individual leaders in such insolent, hebbelsian forms pour clean water into the lie. Count one: The more lies, misinformation, the more people perceive it. This was the case during the election campaign. Think of those who have so generously promised to lower tariffs on utilities and what they are doing in places. Let me give you an example of Kirovograd. Now there's a sharp rise in heat, heating. Who did this? Kirovograd Mesquikonka. Who make up his foundation? Butt. Of the 75 MPs, 38 were there. Who's in charge? Butter Calchenko, who betrayed the electorate of the city and fled to Kiev. Both Julia Timoshenko and her deputy, the defector, and the liberal, are well - aware of these matters. What's the logic when Julia Volodymyrna saves so loudly with one hand for the people, as well as with the regulation of tariff policy, and with another hand through her deputies and performances on the ground, she raises these tariffs on residential services. Where's the logic? And logic is one thing. To deceive people, to build trust in themselves, to turn people against others. All this preparation for the next election, it's all pear. The situation is also complicated by the transfer of heat to private hands, as in Kyrovograd, as well as in a number of other cities. In Kirovograd, in particular, in Kharkiv private structures, high innovation technologies and Kiev’s heat structure. Prices dictate private structures. Heat structures were also leased to Sharova, Volkanova, Hilchenka, Tsukanova, and others. Kalchenko of BUTU promised to return the heat to the city’s property. He promised and deceived people, raised direct prices for heat and water 1.8 times, and if he did, four times, including water, public enterprises sell Vodokánal in Kirovograd 77 copies, and 39 copies are sold for 3 bracelets, and 2 bracelets 62 copies are placed in the pocket of private structures. Who is lying, who is lying, and where is the truth? So I'm going to the voters, and especially in Kirovgrad, separate the sex from the grain, the lie from the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u186	Please, Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u187	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear voters, on December 22, 2006, I, the national deputy of Ukraine, Peter Cibenko, asked the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, for clarification on the dangerous political and not just the political actions of his best former minister, the winning card of his bankrupt human resources well, and today, Presidential Adviser, Yuri Lucenka. Over time, I've had a huge number of responses, I emphasize, different in essence, but in the vast part of the positive part about the problem that I have raised, namely, the creation of the so-called national self-defence and the calls for a visit to Kiev. But unfortunately, the chief official of the state to whom I was actually addressing, namely, the President of Ukraine, who had been asked, did not hear or wanted to hear it. Why this has happened is only to be guessed. Apparently, he and the President of Ukraine, as the guarantor of the Constitution of Ukraine, do not care about the calls of his advisor, who indirectly poses a threat to the collapse of the constitutional system in Ukraine. It's strange that the President only sees a threat to the constitutional order in a polytreform, where it's not actually there, and he doesn't see where that threat is, of course, present, where it's in the most threatening form. The people of Ukraine are witnessing another political project called the Mayan-2, when, for the money of the Americans, European goods. And the native oligarchs of orange beauty, the people of Ukraine are preparing a new orange self-defense yoke. All of this has already been done by the people of Ukraine. I reiterate my request to the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, to explain the actions of my advisor, Yuri Lucenka. In the event that the President, the highest official of the state, does not publicly state his position on this matter, I, the national deputy of the Ukraine of Cibenko, leave the right to leave behind that Mr. Lucenko, as advisor, is acting on behalf of his patron, the President of Ukraine, with all the consequences arising from this, and then that the Crusade on Kiev is being prepared with the blessing of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenk. Finally, I would like to remind the well-known Eastern wisdom of the series of accusations that have been made to the anti-crisis coalition today: “The dog barks and the caravan goes.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u188	Yes, please, we have Mordovian passing the word to Boko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u189	Dear voters of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! After the speech of Oleg Layashka, who was so overprotective of Julia Timoshenko here, he wants to ask, and who and who are climbing in the hero? You know, you can protect yourself, you can say a lot of things, but you have to tell the truth. The truth is, Russia’s chief military prosecutor was not closing anything against Julia Timoshenko. She simply gave Julia a Volodymyrical choice or an excuse in court or an application to stop a criminal case long ago. Julius Volodymyrna chose a second, that is, a halt in the matter over the years. In fact, she confessed to the crime as such. This is the pure and holy Mrs. Gas Princess, who climbs in national heroin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-09-m0.u190	Yes, respected colleagues, all who wanted to speak in the “Various” did. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I'm informing you that next week the national deputies are working on committees and MP factions. The plenary meeting will take place at 10 a.m. on February 13 and will begin with the Government's Day of Implementation of Ukraine's Legislation on Social, Right and Moral Protection of War Veterans. My colleagues would like to take part in this plenary meeting. Good luck.
