ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u1	Good afternoon, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, Irrigated at the opening of the session. I apologize for the delay that has taken place under the demands of the two factions, and they will be able to explain their position. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. There's a roll-up. [[12:50:10]] There are 438 national deputies registered. The morning session shall be declared open. At the opening ceremony of the third session of the Supreme Council, the fifth vocation arrived: President of Ukraine Viktor Andriyovich. Oh, I'm sorry, it's written here. I'm sorry. Prime Minister. I announced that I had invited him, and that was the way it was. Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic and all members of the government. Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine - Dombrovsky Ivan Petrovich, Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine - Onopenko Vasil Vasilovic, Head of the Supreme Economic Court - Demchenko Sergey Fedorovich, Head of the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine - Pasenyuk Alexander Mihajlovich, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine – Medvedzko Alexander Ivanovich, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine - Stemah Vladimir Semenović, was in the morning, waiting for you to count him for 10 hours. The head of the House of Auditors of Ukraine - Simonenko Valentin Kostinović, Head of the Central Electoral Commission - Davidovich Jaroslav Vasilovich, Head of the State Property Fund - Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna, Head of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine Kostuyev Alexy Aleksijovich, Head of the State Committee on Television and Radio Affairs Prutnik Edouard Anatoliyovich. Also invited are the Head of the Supreme Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the heads of the district councils and heads of the district administrations, the Kyiv City Head, the head of the Sevastopol City Council and the Sevastopol City Administration. Representatives of the diplomatic corps, the public, the media. In accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call is announced openly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u2	Let us give our heartfelt thanks to the chorus of the name Faith for what has been done. Honourable National Deputies, on January 17th, the life of the Ukrainian national deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, deputy head of the faction of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kushnarov Eugen Petrovich. The personality of an unquestionably bright, brilliant organizer, a trusted companion, and an interesting good man. I ask you to honor our colleague’s memory by a moment of silence. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u3	Honourable National MPs are given the floor to the Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexander Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u4	Honorable members of the meeting and guests of the Supreme Council! Dear Victor Fedorovich, members of the Cabinet of Ministers! We're starting a session in a lot of ways. Everything we did during the last session was a proper pimp, preparation for quality changes in legislation and content, and organization of work. During the third session, we need to lay the foundations for reforming power at the local level by the Committee, the Supreme Council's Office, together with the Secretariat and the Cabinet of Ministers, the President will have to work closely with the Constitutional Court to quickly and professionally complete the work on the relevant changes to the Constitution and develop them to adopt or improve the necessary laws on local self-government, local government administrations, changes in the tax system, changes to the budgetary code, the principles of reform of the administrative and territorial system and laws on the regulation of legal principles, property relations and administration at the local level. That is to create a real self-governance system. At the same time, careful consideration should be given to the state of legislative regulation of the relationship between higher authorities, identifying the optimal forms of interaction between their main subjects on the basis of the balance of powers, restraints, and countermeasures. Of course, cooperation between different institutions of higher authority is essential. We look forward to this in connection with the support of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and the Supreme Court. They do well to take more initiative in those projects that apply to these institutions of public authority, so that no one is tempted to review the laws and times of tradition, or to preserve the imbalance of authority and responsibility. This refers to the laws on the President, the improvement of the law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the judiciary, on the funds, on the Demmeine Foundation, on regulatory procedures for Parliament, on the Constitutional Court, on the Security and Defence Council, on the High Council of Justice, on the other hand. It is necessary to complete an unwarranted long process of enacting a law on the investigating commissions of the Supreme Council, whose registered project, as I see it, can be considered to be optimal from a functional point of view. Previous practice, especially the work on the Cabinet of Ministers law, indicated that some relations would have to be regulated not only by laws but also by changes to the Constitution. However, it is for this purpose that a draft decree for the establishment of the Temporary Special Commission is proposed for consideration by the Parliament, which will prepare draft amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine and draft other laws emanating from it, i.e. organic laws. This applies, above all, to acts relating to the knowledge of many committees, such as the principles of internal and external politics. I hope that the Commission will use all the constitutional provisions and tested experience to take into account the interests of all legislative initiatives, as well as of scientists, the public, the local authorities, in the work of relevant projects. Also, I think we can count on the proper treatment of the legislative process by the heads of the local authorities. In addition, there will be opportunities for the Coordination Council to have experience with the Head of the Supreme Council and to discuss drafts at public hearings. These are rules of conduct for all chains and institutions of power that make it effective for society, transparent and understandable for all citizens. The joint work in this direction should answer many questions about the model of government and governance, so it should be discussed on the round tables, the right initiative expressed by the President of Ukraine. On the other hand, I would like to point out that such approaches are not only constitutional but also that will contribute to the neutralization of various political speculations. The vast majority of the Ukrainian people's deputies, I'll even say, the entire composition of Parliament is willing to work without intrigue, understanding its responsibility for harmony and social optimism in society. The fact that almost 80 percent of the laws discussed at the previous session have been adopted by a qualified constitutional majority shows that there is a willingness of deputies to work constructively. Clearly, the achievement of trust in power should not hinder uncertainty, for example, the order and substance of housing and utility bills, nor the principles and conditions of cooperation with foreign partners, nor the legal anomalies such as martyrdom. This refers to the political and legal direction of Parliament. Of course, he is at the core of all social transformations. Yet people are interested, first of all, in the decisions of Parliament and the authorities in general, which have to do with everyday, direct interests. I hope that both the President's message to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the work of parliament and government will give due place to this issue. First of all, it's housing services. We're asking the government to accelerate the production of general rules on housing and utilities to make them feel justified in raising prices and tariffs in line with changes in energy prices, but at the same time we realized that the state is not leaving people alone with its problems. Secondly, it creates conditions for the family budget to be strong, rather than falling from the pressure of rising prices and payments. This will also help the local authorities to feel more confident, to calculate outside their communities. There is a need to review the order of payroll, to establish an hourly pay system. Sooner or later, we'll have to go this way to level our standards and our pay-as-you-go ratio with Europe. The relevant draft law has been prepared, the content of its provisions requires a thorough preliminary analysis by the committees of Parliament and the government. First of all, we suggest that the government make all the necessary calculations and make appropriate proposals. During the third session, many questions about Ukraine’s integration into world economic space, the World Trade Organization, and bilateral economic ties will be addressed. Most of the recent negotiations with our foreign partners refer to this direction. In general, we can talk about the attractive prospects of such cooperation for developing Ukrainian transit potentials, aircraft and locomotives, biofuels, etc. Parliament's task is to ensure that a favourable investment climate is adequately ensured in the speedy intervention of the committees, the Accounting Chamber, in promoting the legality of cooperation with our foreign partners. A preliminary analysis of the planning of the committee’s legislative work, as follows from the general plan that we are going to consider today, shows that unfortunately not all committees show the scope and complexity of what needs to be done. I invite the committee heads to consider carefully the contents of their plans and to make the necessary adjustments. At first glance, the planning of the committee is well thought out, planning, planning of the APC Committee, although I think that the situation in the field is critical, not to say catastrophic, and the expected difficulties involved in joining the WTO, the legal settlement of land relations, in accordance with the Universal and the Law on the Moratorium for Sale of Land require clear planning and hard work and deputies, and the employees of the Secretariat. You know that the planning for today's session is based on a forward-looking legislative plan approved in the last session. Some 70 laws from the perspective have moved to the work plan for this session. The quality of these bills needs to be exceptionally high, since these are systems-based legislative acts. It's also addressing the committee heads. I have to remind myself of the need to speed up and draft laws that contribute to the development of entrepreneurship, the fight against corruption and raiding, especially all that relates to pension insurance, social guarantees, education, medicine, culture. Again, it is about the system of approaches, their full consistency with the intentions and actions of the government created by Parliament. In the near future, the budget of the committee, which is directly responsible for adopting the previously promised changes to the budget this year, is looking forward to a great deal of pressure. I am not going to make any suggestions by referring to the practice that took place in the preparation of the budget. However, I would like to point out that we should focus on working closely with other parliamentary committees and factions, with local councils, and directly with the government, since under the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, all documents relating to the budget are dealt with in advance by the Cabinet of Ministers. In general terms, the issue is: the quality and intensity of the legislative work of the Supreme Council should put a stop to the debate on the relevance of the transition to the parliamentary-presidential form of government. Convinced, we will make sure that this dot requires the interests of the people, the State, and every citizen. Of course, a successful solution requires the close interaction of deputies, regardless of their political preferences or their factional affiliation. I call on all MPs to be tolerant, to be respectful, to find reasonable compromises. If there are any conflicts, let us solve them at the table, we have demonstrated this today. This is true of the recently announced intentions of resigning the Supreme Council. I can honestly say that I do not mind, but this should be done in accordance with the Rules, using legally justified arguments. And until I hold my post as Head, my position on the protection of the Constitution, the Rules, the authority of Parliament and every MP will not change. I don't think we need to worry too much about calls for the dissolution of parliament, early elections, seasonal attacks, etc. I know the passions are settled if Parliament is an example of the solidarity and certainty of the difficulties that arise in this difficult time for Ukraine. The coordinated and purposeful work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its government, whose cornerstone is the improvement of the welfare of all Ukrainian citizens, must prove that the authorities are vindicated by their expectations for a better life. After all, it's the moral duty of any authority. Convinced, difficulties will be overcome, promising changes for Ukraine will be ensured, and parliament will succeed with its tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u5	Before the end of the second session, as you know, your honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine approved the calendar of the third session. In line with this plan, the Supreme Council is working in plenary mode during this week. So you have work plans for today, and in accordance with the Rules, I announce, in article 25, on Tuesday we have 30 minutes to make statements by authorized representatives with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. I'm asking the factions to sign up. We've got it. Wait, I missed one moment. We have one question to resolve for Parliament to work fully, as it is today, in the warehouse, to announce that on January 31st, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26 in the multi-mandatory, sixth year, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Soltus Paul Stanislavovich, who is included in the electoral list of the Party of Regions. According to article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office, national deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Soltus, Paul Stanislavovich, is invited. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u6	I swear allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence. Taking care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. National Deputy of Ukraine Soltus Pavel Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Let us welcome Paul Stanislavovich, and wish him success in his parliamentary activities. Let's say hello. Now I'm going to continue with the subject before that, according to the Rules of Procedure, factions from factions can express their thoughts on the issues that concern them. We have just agreed on the Conciliation Council that the representatives of the Block of Timoshenko and our Ukraine will be the first to speak, because they called for a break in a kind of way. So I want you all to sign up, who needs to come out of factions. Please sign up. And Julia Volodymyrna has the word. And I do this report that the European Union delegation has arrived in the Cabinet of Ministers, and that's why we need to do this. Both the head of government and those directly involved should be in place. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u8	Good afternoon, fellow believers! I welcome everyone, however, to the beginning of the session. And I'd like to tell everyone right now who's listening to us and watching why today our faction started a new session of the Supreme Council with the blockade of Parliament and, in fact, what we insist on. We believe that a full-scale project is being launched in Ukraine today to destroy our political and energy independence. This project consists of three parts. First. This is an installation for Ukraine of extremely high, insurmountable prices for Russian natural gas. The other one. This is the setting of insurmountable, repeatedly exaggerated, unwarranted tariffs for the population. And as a result of the third phase, the bankruptcy of housing and utilities. And the last chain is the bankruptcy of our gas transport network and the creation of appropriate strange enterprises in the management of our gas transport system, and virtually the removal of Ukraine, our main strategic property, is Ukraine's gas transport system. Statements made by the President of the Russian Federation that a revolutionary proposal had come from our government regarding the gas system. Prime Minister Boyk's announcements, Minister of Fuel and Energy, and today at 10 a.m. Azarov's statement that the market price for gas is not up and that is why the Ukrainian gas transport system needs to be transferred to Russia's administration. I would like to state, for this reason, that our faction will not allow the session to start until we put to the vote the issue of the Law on the Prohibition of Transfer to Administration, Privatization or Other Manipulations with Our Gas Transport System, and this Act today will not be voted on in the first, second reading and in general. It is because an agreement has been reached on the Conciliation Council today, and all the faction leaders have confirmed that this law is included in the order of the day. Today there is a positive decision by a committee of profile regarding this law, and as a result, today this law will be incorporated into the agenda and voted upon. In addition, in the order of the day this week there are bills to raise the subsistence minimum of people's lives, as well as the minimum wage, as well as the law that creates a certain order for setting tariffs on residential services. On the Conciliation Council, all these issues were accepted by all factions. And that is why our faction has unlocked the session today, and we hope that all the factions of our commitments will be met, Ukraine’s gas transport system today will be securely protected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u9	Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u10	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. A statement from the faction of our Ukraine. The beginning of 2007 marked a dramatic deterioration in the lives of the Ukrainian people, caused by the so - called anti-crisis coalition and the government of Janukovic. Even, according to the Ministry of Economics, the real increase in population income this year is not more than 8 percent. I mean, citizens' incomes will triple in 2005 and 2006 with governments formed by President Yushchenk. In doing so, there is an uncontrolled increase in housing and utility tariffs. The government has done nothing to stop this vacchanal, or at least to improve the quality of services provided at new prices. Subsidies for only one and a half million citizens are provided. Although there is no real way to pay for the new tariffs. This government policy leads to the poverty of millions of fellow countrymen and not only does it not solve but it also deepens the housing crisis. And that's just the beginning of the promised majority improvement of life today, because the government that swore to give Ukraine cheap gas is buying this gas a half the cost of last year. Another 18 - percent increase in electricity prices is planned, another 25 - percent increase in rail traffic, and other increases in prices and tariffs are planned. The government has purposefully continued to make life difficult for families with children. One of the important achievements of President Yushchenk was the elevenfold increase in support of the birth of a child. After an unsuccessful attempt to rob part of the families of this help, the Yanuković government has introduced another innovation: from now on, young mothers are forced to help with the birth of a child and, after caring for a child under three years of age, to receive, not at work, but through social protection, which creates a lot of inconvenience due to queues and a huge amount of help. But especially dangerous are the government’s actions aimed at giving way to Ukraine’s national interests. After removing the foreign minister, senior expert and patriot Boris Tarasyuk, the government of Yanukovic went into a secret arrangement with the Russian Federation. Neither the President of Ukraine nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor the Supreme Council, nor the Ukrainian people, were informed of the essence of the secret arrangements. But the President of Russia publicly stated that the Ukrainian government is proposing to transfer our gas transport system to a joint consortium with Russian participation. It's practically about restoring the old Bushman idea of transferring a unique strategic resource under the control of a neighbouring state. Is it clear why the Moscow government makes its proposals in secret and does not comply with the procedure established by law? Because it is the surrender of Ukraine’s national interests, which cannot be justified by any ephemeral benefits from such an instrument. This is a direct threat to the national security of Ukraine created by this Cabinet of Ministers. That is why the faction “Our Ukraine” urges Prime Minister Yanukovic to listen to today's information about the possible transfer of the gas transport system to the management of foreign countries. We fought against such a transfer five to six years ago when the faction “Our Ukraine” was in permanent opposition to the Kuchmow regime. Now the new forces that have come to power are implementing old ideas and are trying to acquire the last, perhaps the Ukrainian people, who are 35,000 kilometers strategically important for Ukraine to give the pipes to foreigners and to base them on some of the benefits of Ukraine. No one has said about the benefits yet, but that the gas transport system will be delivered, betrayed, already talked to all analysts and indirectly confirmed by government officials on the Ukrainian side. Therefore, if we do not have the information of Prime Minister Yanukovich today, we will consider our fears to be perfectly sound and the agreement on the surrender of Ukraine’s national interests has indeed taken place. It's quite obvious that anti-national socio-economic government policies, the collapse of one foreign policy, the usurpation of the government in the middle of the country are chains of one chain. The general goal of these actions is to turn Ukraine into a colonial clan-oligaric state with a poor people and an authoritarian government. The faction “Our Ukraine” will never, under any circumstances, allow such a move to be allowed, we will stand in the way of this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u11	Please, from the Communists, who is speaking? Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Honorable Voters! In January, members of our faction held many meetings with our constituents. These meetings were interesting, and they reflect all the sentiments that today have opposed the minds of many of our citizens in society. But by generalizing the conclusions of these meetings, I would like to inform you about the following. Yes, indeed, these meetings confirm that in the lives of our people of Ukraine there are many problems, the people of Ukraine are worried about unemployment today, and the low level of wages, the rise in tariffs, prices, the people of Ukraine today hope that the authorities will eventually deal with these problems, require concentration of power, increased responsibility, accountability, control of the electorate and our people. People today are also concerned that the President is taking orders that direct our military contingent to defend the interests of completely different countries and peoples in Afghanistan. That in the territory or in the vicinity of Ukraine, there are radio stations in the Czech Republic, and in Poland there are rocket bases. And this is also a real threat to solving our problems. In the western areas of Ukraine, in flagrant violation of the laws, UN-OPA soldiers are rehabilitated. And they're getting benefits that our heroes of the Great Homeland War don't have today. All of this just proves that people care about what authority does and what problems it solves. In opening the third session, the Communist faction proposes to continue and strengthen political reform, to focus our attention on the fundamental improvement of the basic law of our lives, the Constitution. It also requires our daily, daily work. Because the content of the laws that we adopt should reflect everything that guarantees rights and freedoms to our citizens in the Constitution of Ukraine. On what issues the Communist faction proposes to focus on the need for changes to the Constitution. First of all, we must ensure that the rights and freedoms of our citizens are effectively realized by legislation. Sadly, though, today they are declarative. Because in the Constitution, a person has a right. Well, let's see if you've got a penny in your pocket. All your rights end with you being insolvent, depending on your lack of money for education, for treatment, for kindergartens, for movie theaters, for theaters, for recreation, for treatment, and so forth. That's why we're proposing. Let us first begin by writing in our Basic Law: “The State guarantees the realization of the law”. It'll still be clear. Today we offer to protect the forms of property in our country. And understand that aside from private property and state property, there is an opportunity to create collective property. And it is these people who must be protected. We suggest today that we work in the direction of the basic economic organization of life in our society, because it depends very much on it. The duration of the working week is 40 hours and to protect the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Provide housing security for our young people, primarily through extended credit. Save and save our natural resources. I believe that today we need to focus on eliminating the institution of the Presidency, because, as the fifth wheel in the car, it is now hampering the real organization of power, the improvement of efficiency, first of all, the authority that directs its efforts to our needs. Today we need to put in place a full mandate, eliminate state administrations and, above all, create executive structures that are approved by the territorial communities after the election of the national MPs. I believe that today, when Ukraine is moving towards civil society, it is the creation of a national control that will allow five years to control the fulfillment of what has been promised during the elections. We believe that today we need to initiate the election of judges and put an end to what is happening in the most corrupt branch of government, the judiciary. We propose to introduce the neutral status of our state and thus put an end to this because certain political forces led by the President are trying to bring Ukraine into common responsibility for crimes that are now in the history of NATO and the United States of America. That is all that our people today demand. And the faction of Communists is that it's the right thing to do. I'm addressing everyone present for the session today. Let us, in support of our ideas, and they are already formulated in the specific text of the draft Constitution, the changes to the Constitution, we will refer it to the Constitutional Court, and thus we will begin a truly real process of protecting the rights and freedoms of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is given by Bogatyrov Raisa Vasilovna from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u14	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear members of the government! Dear fellow national MPs, members of journalistic organizations, dear voters! My greatest dream today was to address the President of the country in this very room. This ultimately showed that the Ukrainian authorities were the only one of their political nature, their unanimity, their common strategic plan. She is capable of serving the national interests of one of the greatest European nations. There's no president. I'm sorry. Because the same European political system of the parliamentary and presidential form of power has made Parliament the center of power. Here, in this honorary chair-lifting place among us our President. He needs to hear us, and we want to listen to him. Dear friends! By adopting the Cabinet of Ministers Act, we were trying to adapt the real problems of government-president interaction. The main thing is to bring the work of the executive branch of power into line with the requirements of the Constitution. I want to thank the BIT factions for their joint actions in this direction, despite their failure to support political reform. It is clear that no one wears one bucket in the cormes, and Victor Yushchenko should initiate the country's Presidential Bill as soon as possible, so it is important not to focus on appeals to another Midan, because history is repeated only by fars, but to start a responsible discussion of the secular European government, where the President becomes a real guarantor of constitutional development, but deprived of the right of manual administration to rule not only the government but also the state. Above all, it ceases to be a threat to the usurpation of power and thus grows into an effective guarantor of democratic transformations in Ukraine. At the same time, I have no doubt about the need to complete constitutional reform, and I want to state that we are absolutely against the adoption in any form of the new Constitution, and even more so by the plebiscite. This is a threat to constitutional stability and even greater insurmountable division of society. Stop playing with dust on a hot stove and no pants. I'm prepared to work with the President on a special constitutional commission. Let's first agree on the concept of such changes, secure them with the Supreme Council Order, and then draft a bill in the Parliament's special control committee, and adopt it 450 votes, the changes to the Constitution that we need. Together, I propose to make new changes to the decision on the moratorium on the application of the Basic Law for 10 years so as not to transform the Constitution into a girl who is constantly married. At the same time, we must finally determine which country we are building. I'm sure you'll all support me: we're building a democratic country first. So we all need to work out a package of legislative initiatives to expand this very basis of democracy: to expand the access of ordinary people to power, to start a real process of de-bureaucratization and the transfer of broad, first of all, control functions to the Ukrainian community, to seriously change the existing electoral system, where people, not even moral leaders themselves, have the imperative mandate of the national MP himself. And there's more. We have to finally set a goal for ourselves -- and divide the Ukrainian half-assed Siamese twins: power and business. A profound and strategic initiative for systemic reform of the social sector is needed, with the aim of raising the quality of life of Ukrainians to the middle-developed countries of Europe. It is necessary to give up the Soviet patriotism of the state faster, especially since it only contributes to the growth of cancer cells of corruption in our ill society. Social reform should aim not only to create guarantees for the proper social standards of life of our people, but also to turn a Ukrainian citizen into the most effective and patriotic investor. Obviously, the poverty eradication programme, as discussed by the Prime Minister, should be the key. The fight against poverty is an unalterable priority programme for us today. And last but not least, it's an economy. In order to compete in a globalised world, it is necessary to set the task of doubling the GDP in 10 years, in three years' budget, to raise the salary in five years to 70 per cent of the EU's salaries. It's those priorities that we give to a national manufacturer so that we can compete in an open globalized world. That's what the government of Yanukovich is working on, and that's what it's going to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u16	I am convinced that this cannot be done without the President. I believe that my position is completely shared by the opposition that wants a genuine change. I believe in the Ukrainian opposition, which will be cleared of the revolutionary itch and become, in fact, the patriotic race for democracy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u17	From the faction of socialists Boki Ivan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u18	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear voters, dear colleagues! First, a few secret messages. I apologize in advance for divulging secrets. According to some sources, the irresponsible criminal circles of the Kugel-Mugel country want to kidnap the leader of the Ukrainian opposition and disprove the alleged intention to export the main building material for the Kugelian home to America for processing bioethanol. We are resolutely protesting this because there will be no spring in Ukraine. Very authoritative sources report that the king of Swaziland intends to kidnap a leader of the Ukrainian opposition to order his married contingent who wants to wear pants. Our protest against these intentions is decisive and unequivocal, and we state that when spring comes, the horns will fall off. [[Applause]] Intelligence reports that there is a real threat to the leader of the Ukrainian opposition from the penguins of Antarctica. They have money there before the spring, and they want to force the kidnapped leader to stop this ruin in his homeland. Let's not let the Ukrainian Spring stop. You yourself understand all the nonsense of these intelligence reports. It's the same ridiculous display of BUT and "Our Ukraine" at the rostrums of the Supreme Council that we've been through. The senseless accusations of government and coalition are to give someone a gas transport system. Already, if anyone is being cared for, except for the President, who has a proposal from Russia after the meeting of the Yushchenko-Putin Interstate Commission, a draft declaration and the one in the embryo. The wolf is damaged, and poor Sirc is beaten. It's not even a doncy, it's just Grandma Parasky's syndrome. Perhaps there will be something wrong with the spring if someone in February is eager to do something in Ukraine, to make a lot of noise in Ukraine in vain, for no one gives anything to anyone or gives anything to anyone. Or is it the case that every windmill finds its Donkihot or vice versa, when it is not hooky for a mad dog and seven rows? But think, people, who would benefit from lying to build your anger by flying it like a broom. And to all the foreigners who fight for their corn with their wives' pants and want to stop the spring to save their money, we firmly claim that we will not give our springs to anyone or their creators. No pasar. I'll tell you what. Socialists are voting in favour of a law that will guarantee the preservation of the gas system in state ownership, because we are no less patriots for the opposition. Although there is already a law. But everyone should have a clear farce with the game of patriotism, which was set up by the so - called opposition, which has real authority in place. And God knows him, wouldn't it be better if the nonsense reported by intelligence were true? At least a cheap theater in Ukraine would reduce. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, you have a list to consider. Accordingly, we need to discuss the order of the day of the third session of the High Council for the Fifth Call. Yesterday, the Conciliation Board, analysing the document, suggested that it be approved today on first reading, that it be possible to work on committees and factions so that it could be put to a final vote on Thursday. So today we don't even make any decisions. Wait. There's nothing to vote on today. We just have the committees prepare this question for the fourth time and consider it essentially in the light of the discussion that will take place in committees and factions. Can I ask you this question? Anyone who would like to exchange information on this subject, please sign in. Carpuk, please. Ten minutes, I think, is enough to exchange thoughts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u20	Karpuk, Our Ukraine. Please pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u21	Klukkowski, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u22	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine." Dear Alexander Alexander! When we adopted a forward-looking legislative plan for the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the previous session, your statement stated that there would be no regulatory effort. Those were your words. We voted in favour of a document that was not provided for by the Supreme Council Rules. Today, the Supreme Council’s draft Order on the Order of the Day of the Third Session contains a second paragraph that foresees a violation of the Rules on Bills, which are said to have been prepared for consideration in accordance with a forward-looking plan. Tell me, who will judge, which bills are prepared according to the plan, which are alternative and which are relevant, and which are not included in the plan. And who will decide which bills will be included in the agenda without.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u23	Answer. The Supreme Council answers all questions: The Supreme Council will be determined. Kowal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u24	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! National Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine I would like to continue what I started with, because the Supreme Council is really defined by vote, but then the second paragraph in the draft decree cannot be, because every bill should be included in the agenda, not automatically included in the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because it is a violation of the Rules. I explained it as required by the Rules. The second question is, if we're going out today, we're not going to consider any agenda that we're working on until Thursday, Alexandre Alexandrovich. Today we need to make some sort of order of the day, at least for this week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u25	Viacheslav Stanislavovich, take a close look at the work plan for today. The next question is a list of questions this week. Please, Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u26	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! First of all, I welcome you and all of us to start a new session. And really, there are a lot of questions that we have left to consider in the previous session from previous sessions. I, above all, have until now an unregulated law, an unadopted Law on Deportees by National Sign. The President's veto was imposed on this law. We have to figure it out somehow. Next. We don't have the Crimean Tatar Act until now. We have not adopted the Law on Victims of Political Repression, we need to be determined today by these very harsh laws, but do not be afraid to look at them on committees and make decisions that are mutually acceptable. I appeal to the fact that I agree with what Yuri Klukkowski said, but this is, indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u27	Thank you. One clarification of the Repression Victims Act was adopted in the early 1990s. All right, all right, talk to the committees, make suggestions, and we'll vote on Thursday. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we propose on Thursday, first of all, to vote on the main list of draft laws to be considered at the third session and to exclude consideration at all, or separately for each of them to vote on drafts 2323, 1251, 2079, 2816, 2487, 2484, 2860 and 3078. Why am I talking about this? Imagine, the draft of Decree 3078 entitled "Acknowledgment of the century from the birth of Roman Shuhević" is that Roman Suhević, whom Adolf Hitler rewarded with two iron crosses for his credits to the fascist Germany and to Adolf Hitler himself. What will Ukraine observe and celebrate this century? We therefore propose that we categorically move beyond and vote on each individual project. We insist that 2640 draft regulations establishing a commission for gas market research on why 7.5 billion had been cancelled. “The only energy
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u29	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u30	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I support Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko's proposals, this is our faction's position, and we have repeatedly stated it. Indeed, we are concerned about the issue of tariffs, and indeed the tremendous increase in these tariffs cannot leave absolutely no one indifferent, and we understand that this is primarily due to the way in which gas prices are produced. And we want the whole people to know who are the real culprits of all these processes. We want to know whose government was the initiator of the dissolution of the 50-dollar gas price agreement with Russia. I wish to recall that this was during the time of the Government of Yulia Timoshenko. We really want people to know where the 7 billion went. Once again, during the reign of Prime Minister Lazarenko and the activities of the well-known man. I therefore support Simonenko and Frost's proposals, and I believe that we still need to look closely at this list and come back to it later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u31	A miner. Get the line, get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u32	Please pass the word to the head of the faction “Our Ukraine” deputy Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u34	Thank you. Mr. Eugene. Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. We have just heard a list of drafts, which one faction, more specifically, Communists, insists on expulsion, and we are concerned that each session of this faction insists on the exclusion of bills that serve as reinforcements of Ukrainian culture, Ukrainian language, Ukrainian historical memory, and the restoration of justice, at least in Ukrainian history. Just mentioned the chief commander of the Ukrainian rebel army, Roman Shuhevich, 100 years old, who will celebrate the entire Ukraine in July of this year. Legally, the faction “Our Ukraine” has made a draft decision on this subject will insist on its inclusion in the agenda. In addition, in this list discussed by a colleague, other bills. I'm proposing something else. The Ukrainian language bill, which is proposed to be banned by the majority factions, is excluded.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u35	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, well, first of all, on a daily basis, I want to say that there was a Conciliation Council, as far as I know, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, and I ask you to make clear those positions that were achieved during the Conciliation Council on this week's vote, today's vote and two laws that will be voted on during the week. And I also wanted to say, this is where a colleague was speaking, taking the opportunity that, ladies and gentlemen, you don't have to throw your problems at people who are really willing to put their lives in Ukraine. What you've been doing, what you've been destroying energy, what you're preparing it for sale, is sorry, it's impossible to hide, and what Timoshenko was protecting Ukraine and continuing to do so, sorry not to say that you don't sing, she's going to keep doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u37	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u38	Please pass the word to Julia Volodymyrni Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u40	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we asked that this first sessional week also include very important laws for Ukraine. Because, in fact, today, everyone who has received new tariffs is watching how the MPs live. And that's why we're reminding you that in the last session, there was the law of our faction to cancel the benefits for the national MPs. And that apartment that's already been able to get all the factions' deputies is counted as service. We would ask that, literally this week, the law on the abolition of benefits from national deputies be considered and supported. Last time there was a vote in Parliament, the Party of Regions did not support it, so the bill did not have legal force. I'd like to start our session with him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u41	Thank you for the good offer. Insomnia, please. The incorruptible ask for a word. He's gone. So what are you insisting? Head, please. And there's no Head. Is there a Chubarov? Please let Chubarov speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! I think the proposal for us to look at the factions and the committees with the corresponding draft decision with the appendix, which is the order of the day session, is that we're going to make this decision right now. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, Your Honor Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, I am talking about what my colleague, Widowenko, said. Indeed, there are mainly chapters on how to consider the President's proposals on the Ukrainian law on the restoration of the rights of persons deported on a national basis. We're going to consider it, hopefully, and we're going to make a decision. We need to do this in the near future. But we have here a chapter called, a list of bills that are not approved by the Conciliation Council. And there are Mr. Teren's projects, the deputy, and Mr. Oneichuk's projects regarding the rehabilitation of victims of political repression. I think we should look at it and take it to the main. And I stand firm against the charges.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we agree that tomorrow the committees and factions will consider the issue of the agenda for today's session, and all those remarks that have also been discussed today will be made as proposals for a vote. We'll define them by voting on Thursday. Is there no objection? Now, regarding the February 6th to February 9th schedule. You have this project on your hands. It is proposed to include further issues on which the faction of Yulia Timoshenko insisted, this is the question of including in today's consideration the first questions about gas transport networks, about blocking, let's say, any possibilities for privatizing them, changing ownership relations in this regard, and two other bills that have also been tabled this week. They're famous, you've given them to MPs, I understand. With these amendments, I'd like you to vote for this week's work plan. I'm putting to the vote the matter of the meeting schedule of the Supreme Council on February 6-9, which was discussed yesterday at the Conciliation Council. Please. [[13:50:01]] For 408 Decision taken. Now, according to the agreement on the Conciliation Council, Information from the Cabinet of Ministers is made by Deputy Prime Minister Andri Petrovich Klavev. Please come to the rostrum. I will repeat, a delegation from the European Community, the European Union has just arrived for the EU-Ukraine negotiations. The Prime Minister should be there, I explain. If we had not been involved in blocking the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister would have been here in the morning and would have been able to consider these too. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u44	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of last year, there was a meeting of the Yushchenko-Putin Interstate Commission. The Heads of State have agreed to prepare a document, a declaration that will allow for greater cooperation in the field of fuel and energy. Last week, a draft declaration was completed at the President’s Secretariat. This morning this document was sent to the Cabinet of Ministers to be processed by our experts. A working group was organized by the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'm the head of the task force. In the essence of this declaration, it is up to the Cabinet of Ministers of the two States to develop implementation projects by 1 April 2007 in which interested companies of the fuel and energy complex of both States are interested. First, the working group will work on a draft declaration that will be signed by the presidents of Ukraine and Russia. Once this declaration is signed, the Cabinet of Ministers will carry out the mandate of the President of Ukraine. And I'd like to give you some information about how fuel and energy companies work. At this point in the gas shelters, 16.7 billion cubic metres of gas. Two million tons of coal are stored in thermal power stations. It's 14 blocks of nuclear power out of 15. One block of the Zaporez nuclear station in planned repair. January’s electricity month accounts for 92 percent. Over the past five months, electricity calculations have been 100 percent. There is no debt on the wages of miners. There are problems with the calculation of the gas consumed, but the government is working on it at this time. It is the duty of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to prepare a plan for the renovation of the fuel-energy complex in preparation for the winter period from 2007 to 2008. April 15 – the end – is a heating season, and on April 16th, repairs will begin at all fuel and energy plants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u45	Is there a question for Andrew Petrovich? Please sign up for the questions. Well, by the number of people enrolled, 10 minutes should be taken, no less. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u46	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u47	Andrew Petrovich, when we met at the Conciliation Council this morning, you assured us that there was no plan to transfer our gas transport system to the management of the Russian Federation enterprises. But at the time that we spoke to you on the third floor, Mr. Azarov, at 10 o’clock, 11 minutes later, made a statement that, literally, I quote: “The market price for gas is solid, Ukraine is interested in co-managing its gas transport system with Russia in order to reduce Russian gas. ” Please explain these differences in the statements of the two high-level owners and assure the hall that our gas transport system is not being passed on to anyone. Because, as you say, your government is highly competent, and to handle the administration of the gas transport system, I think you can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. As far as the fuel-energy complex is concerned, as Vice Prime Minister, I am responsible for the operation of the fuel-energy complex. And there are no plans for transporting the gas system, either Russia or the European Union or Belarus at this time in the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u49	Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u50	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Andrew Petrovich, I'd like to hear from you once again that no plan has been initiated by the government today for any privatization or transfer of administration or the sharing of the Ukrainian gas transport system in Russia. There were no joint documents, and until this morning, the government had come forward with a document from the President's administration, they had nothing to discuss. I mean, all that happens in our opposition room, when our voters hear it, it's all a big lie. That is, people are once again deceived by one thing, and people are explained differently to please one another. This must be a gross sin. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u51	Thank you for asking. I've already given the answer to this question, but once again, I repeat, the Yushchenko-Putin Interstate Meeting, the Heads of State have agreed that we will expand the format of cooperation between the Russian-Ukrainian fuel and energy companies. Russia is a strategic partner for Ukraine. And we all know. And we deal with issues, we work together. It could be that way. I'm in Russian, may I? With regard to joint projects for joint oil and gas production, both in Ukraine and in Russia. Further, our Russian colleagues asked us to help support Russia and increase electricity exports to the south of Russia during this heating season. There's a deficit there. They have always had a deficit, but because they now have GDP growth and generating capacity and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u52	Let me finish, but you'll bet in one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u53	And the network. They're a little behind, so we've supported them and now we've increased electricity exports. So, with regard to joint production, yes, we are now negotiating to establish, perhaps, joint ventures, perhaps under the Product Distribution Act, so that Russia will allow us to fish together in Russia and we have given them permission to fish together in Ukraine. That's what this is about. With regard to the gas transport system, even with regard to the expansion of the gas transport system, you know that we want to build another pipeline, Bogorodchani-Uzhgrad. It's 248 kilometers. Unfortunately, unfortunately for us, because we are interested in joint implementation of this project, this is the construction of a new pipeline. Unfortunately, there is not yet a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u54	Kirilenko. Gerasimük gives him his word, Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u55	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Andrew Petrovich, we are pleased to see your desire to make the president guilty. The only thing that your desire is not effective. Because even in the declaration you're talking about, there's no such thing as a gas transport system. Instead, we propose to correct the words, firstly, Minister of Fuel and Energy Yuri Boyka, who said that the negotiations on Ukraine's gas transport system took place at the level of Prime Minister Yanukovich and Prime Minister Fradakov. That's the first one. And secondly, we suggest that you refute the words of the Prime Minister himself, who said in Herson that this is a 50-50 administration. And thirdly, we invite you to refute today's words by First Deputy Prime Minister Azarov about what has already been said at today's session. In fact, the possibility of transferring the gas transport system to the Russian Federation. And this is the subject of your speech on the stand that you're not talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u56	Thank you for a very good question. The first thing I'd like to mention. I have once spoken on this issue in the rostrum. That I deeply respect the President of Ukraine. We have the President alone, and we, as public servants, must all abide by his decisions. First. That's why everything about your accusations to me is that I'm somehow trying to bring everyone down on the President of Ukraine. So, first of all, I didn't make those statements. And I support the President of Ukraine and the President of Russia, Putin, for agreeing together to expand joint activities on the fuel and energy complex. And once the two Presidents make a final decision on how we will work together, we will comply with the decision of the two Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u57	You'll take the rebuttal from the proper officials, I think. Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u58	Please pass the word to Eugene Gorgen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u59	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u60	Eugene Gorenik, Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, faction of "Our Ukraine." Dear Andrew Petrovich, you give a specific answer to a specific question. First. There was a statement by the President of the Russian Federation Putin that there were arrangements between Gazprom and the Ministry of Fuel of Ukraine, not between him and Yushchenko. The other one. There was a Boyk statement that there was an agreement between the prime ministers of the two countries. And third, your statement today and the Prime Minister's statement in Herson. Where's the truth? Decrypt, who's lying? And if you are all lying together, such a government does not have the right to exist in Ukraine. And the second question. As for your assurance of 16 billion cubic metres of gas in the gas shelters. How many are Ukrainian? And if the temperature is minus twenty, will we survive the month of February?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u61	Thank you for a very good question. Everything about agreements between the two presidents I have no right to comment on. And I will say that this is the right arrangement for enhanced cooperation between Ukraine and Russia. All with respect to 16 billion cubic metres of gas, we do not have 16.7 billion cubic metres of gas at the disposal of NAC, Naftegaz Ukraine. Of the 16.7 billion cubic metres of gas 3.5 billion cubic metres of gas is Ukrnafty, everything else is at the disposal of NAK Naftegaz Ukraine, although Ukrnafta, you know, is a subsidiary of NAK Naftegaz Ukraine. So whatever it is, it's going to be plus 10, God forbid it's plus 10, or it's going to be minus 30. I believe that the fuel and energy facilities will be able to survive the trials. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to distract Alexander Alexandrovich, if I may. I recently met a colleague who was also responsible for the fuel and energy complex when I was Nazarbaev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u62	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u63	And he says to me, "You know, Andrew, I loved cold winter and snow so much earlier, and when I started to be responsible for the fuel and energy complex, I immediately fell in love with it."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u64	Cowchuck, please. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u65	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear Andrei Petrovich! I have a few wishes: first, it became clear that this fight, which is being fought today in our Hall, is the result that “love of friends” with the President sitting on a gas pipe through a joint venture and distributing millions of dollars in pockets today are fighting to establish normal contacts at the state level on gas supply with Russia – first. Second. I think we need to take this seriously when, in 1995-1996, the motorists buried 500 million in the Odessa-Boda tube and thus caused tremendous damage to the State. And my wish is this, Andrei Petrovich. I believe that it is important for the Cabinet of Ministers to develop the country's energy security programme, particularly the development of the coal industry, gas and oil. To deal with the uranium complex today as a raw material for nuclear power plants. Define the future of cooperation with the same Russian Federation on the supply of raw materials for nuclear energy. And I believe that only such a programme is a programme for the protection of national interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u66	Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u67	Thank you, Petr Nikolaevich. As for Odessa-Broda, what plans. I'd like to briefly be that, literally, two minutes, very quickly. So, "Odessa Ships. We are now engaged in a negotiating process with a number of countries to start work, to start Odessa-Boda in the right direction. What's the plan? Establish a consortium of oil-owned countries, transit workers and consumers. We will then proceed here to the Supreme Council with a proposal and introduce a bill from the Cabinet of Ministers for the transfer to the concession of this oil pipeline, Odessa Broda. After that, once the conference is decided, it will be the first. Second, with regard to the nuclear industry. You know that we created the Atomic Energy Prom concert, which will now be directly engaged in the nuclear cycle, development and expansion of production, literally three weeks ago. Last. With regard to the coal industry and energy savings, you know what the Prime Minister has to do with the maximum amount of gas consumption. Over the past five months, we have reduced gas consumption by 30 per cent at only one thermal power plant. And with regard to coal, thanks to you, the Supreme Council, we have now voted in the Hall on a budget where we have increased funding for the coal industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u68	Thank you, sit down, please. Thanks for the information, the government turns out to be working, and we didn't know, some didn't know. So right now, the first question for today is the first question that was initiated by the faction of Block Tymoshenko. Julia Timoshenko has the floor for the report. I'm announcing a sequel to the 14.15th session of Parliament, until the end of this issue is better, and we'll do our best to look at it more quickly, because it, as I understand it from the committee meeting, does not raise objections.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u69	Now, as agreed, on the Conciliation Council, in the agenda of the day the first question is Bill 3084, which provides for the prohibition of any manipulation with ownership of our pipelines and, in general, the property of NAK “Naftogazu” of Ukraine, including shelters, including subsidiaries and, in fact, the property of our main pipelines. The point is that a statement by the government official that we just heard from you indicates very clear things: 1. Russian President Volodymyrovich Putin made a public statement at his press conference that the Ukrainian government had made a revolutionary proposal to practically transfer our gas transport systems to the Russian Federation. It was an initiative of the government. But I think this initiative of the Ukrainian government has not been prepared in Ukraine. 2. A whole series of government officials claim different concepts, a part about the transfer to the Russian Federation's Gas Transport Authority, a part about the transfer to the concession, a part about the transfer of our gas transport system to the right to receive some kind of mythical gas from the Russian Federation, and today, thanks to the circumstances, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Fuel and Energy Complex has refuted all this vanity. And it actually gives us the basis today together, maybe sometimes the Ukrainian Parliament can do something unanimously, together for Ukraine, for its independence, for its power in the world space and, I think, this is actually a historic moment that can happen today. They also referred to two presidents of Russia and Ukraine as agreeing on certain transfers of our gas transport system. I do not believe that the President of Ukraine could make such a decision. But in this case, we have all of us, and in Ukraine as a whole, there will be one big warning, this is a warning law that we can vote today to prevent all officials who want to either strengthen their position, or, in their own way, get dividends from any order of our culinary property. And that's why today we're proposing a bill that was agreed upon today on a profiling committee that was read and stylistically corrected by the Supreme Council's Legal Authority. And this bill is finally going to end with the encroachment of all countries, all corporations, on our energy assets. Before I read this law in that edition that was adopted today by the committee and in a stylistic way by the Legal Authority, I'd like to give you some information that our gas transport system after the Russian Federation is practically the second most powerful system in the world. Today we have a gas transport system that has 36,000 kilometers of gas pipelines. Remember this figure — 36,000 miles [36,000 km]. Some 14,000 miles [14,000 km] have long pipes. This is a value that not all countries of the world can afford to build today. This system includes 79 compressor stations and 13 underground gas repositories. And how often do we talk about this, and what's the permeability of this system? The permeability of this system at the entrance is 290 billion. cubic meters of gas! And on the way out, it's 170 billion.Oh, my God! For example, in Russia we take 120 extras and we can, if needed, transport to Europe another gas that can come to Ukraine by alternative gas transport systems. As long as we're holding with you as a country this gas transport system in our state property, we don't have a risk of setting unpredicted gas prices. And the prices that have been set are because governments in Ukraine have not taken advantage of our options in the negotiation process, have not taken advantage of our advantages consciously, but have deliberately taken interest in the shadow of certain distributions of financial flows. And so when a decent government comes to power in Ukraine sooner or later, this gas transport system will allow all of Ukraine’s energy independence issues to be resolved. And that's why it's being torn apart today, and that's why everyone who has time today is taking it to Ukraine and every high-ranking person who comes in to strengthen their authority in other countries is practically trading in our gas transport system. And just so you know, today it's worth more than $50 billion. Remember this figure, this is the multiple income of our State Budget. And if we give it to the neighbouring states on certain arrangements now, we're not players in geopolitical space, we're basically the outsiders of all the energy processes in the world and the region, and we're practically taking Ukraine out of a decent position in all the geopolitical positions in the world. If we are willing to take steps that limit our betrayal of national interests, what kind of country are we? And I would like to point out once again that when in Russia, in the Russian Parliament, in the Russian Duma, there are questions that protect the national interests of the Russian Federation, there is no division of Parliament into the western, passersby, like we have the pro-Russian and western parts of Parliament, there are always votes for their own country and for their own country. And I think we need to start these traditions too. And that is why I would now like to announce a bill that is a historic step in the life of our Parliament and which, in my view, will end by encroaching on Ukraine's energy independence and political independence. The law. Part two of article 7 reads: “Reorganization, merger, merger, division, division, conversion, and privatization of state-owned enterprises of pipelines are prohibited. The alienation of property of state-owned enterprises of major pipeline transport, the transfer of it from the balance sheet to the concession, lease, leasing, mortgage, management, transfer to the statutory fund of other legal persons of property and shares of such enterprises, the commission of other rights that may lead to the alienation of property and shares of these enterprises, as well as the assets and shares of NAC Naftogaz Ukraine, subsidiaries and established gas depots are prohibited. And the quote he added added was added by a profiling committee. Except if the result of such actions is the creation of state-owned enterprises with 100 percent state ownership of Ukraine. Item 2. To complement article 7 with a new one. A new part of a third of this content. In the case of state-owned enterprises of the NAC ‘Naftogaz Ukraine’ pipeline pipeline transport, the subsidiaries and its subsidiaries may not be subject to bankruptcy. In this respect, part three is considered part four. This law takes effect from the day it was published. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on a monthly basis from the date of entry into force of this law, shall bring its legal acts into conformity with this law, ensure that the ministries and other executive authorities review and repeal their laws, which are contrary to this law. This is agreed upon by the Committee and the Governing Body of the Supreme Council. I would like to put this bill to the vote in the first, second, and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u70	Is there a question for Julia Volodymyrna? Is it? Please sign up for the questions. Yeah, five minutes. Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u71	Please pass the word to Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u72	Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u73	Julia Volodymyrna wanted you to clarify how, after the adoption of the bill, the President, the Prime Minister, and the government could act in a situation where the idea would arise again, for example, to question whether the integrity of our transport network would be compromised. Because I was worried, you know, the President of Russia said to say that he listened to the revolutionary proposals of Ukrainian "loving friends", I would understand, he just said "Ukrainen friends".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u74	“Dear friends”, he said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u75	And that worried me. So if any other friends are still offering the President of Russia another way to manage or account for our gas transport network, whether this law is necessary, it is sufficient that such negotiations do not lead us to lose it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u76	This bill, which has been carefully written, regarding the protection of the property of all of our state-owned enterprises, which own gas transport networks and, in general, highway pipelines, all of this has been carefully written. And whatever official, even at the highest level, has not accepted any culinary or culinary arrangements, our gas transport system and our own gas depots, our pipeline transport will be protected as long as this law is legally binding. Of course, if this law is repealed, all possible locks will be reopened to lose our main strategic state property. In addition, both the governments of Ukraine and Russia and the presidents of Ukraine and Russia can create joint ventures both after gas production and after oil production in any territory or on any other occasion, but this does not allow them to contribute property to statutory funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u77	Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u78	Please pass the word to Mrs. Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u79	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u80	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear Julia Volodymyrna! Of course, Ukraine's energy security is at stake, and so is the gas transport system. And the words of Putin and Yanukovich are not a hollow sound. But remember when they announced these? After the decree of January 12 was passed on the dictatorship of Kabmin. And by voting for it, the apiori were given in and the gas transport system, because the possibility, and the tariffs for the citizens, and the early elections. In view of the faction "Our Ukraine" on January 12th, it became a defense of the gas transport system and national interests. Of course, we are now supporting, because this is the logic of our actions, the introduction of this bill. And I think voting for him is a cleansing and commitment for a democratic parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u81	I would like to remind "Our Ukraine" that, in fact, Ukraine's independence began to appear when, before electing a new democratic president, including "Our Ukraine", she voted in favour of changes to the Constitution, which deprived the future Ukrainian President of all powers. And now it's only up to you. Next, the destruction of all our strategic plans took place when Janukovic's candidacy as Prime Minister was presented instead of disbanding Parliament. It was the second stage, practically, back to rematch. And I would also like to remind you that NAK Naftogaz was headed by the right people who borrowed billions of money from NAK Naftogazu's property, and now we have to get out of this situation. As Prime Minister, I refused to do so, but Mr Ivchenko disobeyed and borrowed billions of debts from NAK Naftogaz. And that's why I'd like, dear friends, no more officials.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u82	Thank you. I think Lilia Grigorovich is pleased with your answer. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u83	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky, the city of Harkov. Now I have heard the questions and the answers from one Ukrainian song are: "Don't go kissing, you'll get a slap." But the question is, Julia Vladimirovna. Because I worked for eight years on the Energy Committee. The issue of the gas transport consortium has been discussed on a number of occasions and no one in the Supreme Council has ever suggested that the strategic role of pipeline transport should remain the way it is. And pipeline transport is included in the list of sites that are not subject to privatization and corporateization and so on and so on. Moreover, today's Pipeline Transport Act states that privatization, as well as the change in ownership of state-owned enterprises, are prohibited. So your wording doesn't really change anything. We Communists have always been in that position, we will vote. But other than pear action, I don't see anything in your bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u84	I thank you, first of all, for the position of the Communist faction. In fact, it is consistent with our faction. But on the other hand, the existing Pipeway Transport Act prohibits exclusive privatization. But creating joint ventures, concessions, leasing, and a lot of other new forms of government property manipulation -- unfortunately, they're not included in this law. And so, I think that if we vote on this law today, we're going to shut everyone down without exception. And by the way, there's no transfer to government in the existing law either. And you know that a transfer to management is practically a privatisation of revenue. And we may have property, but already the profits will belong to another owner. So I think this law is extremely relevant to the preservation of our political and energy independence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u85	Have a seat, please. Mikola Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Let's finish the discussion, then take the word for a line. Please. Mikola Volodymyrovich, do you need to report? Two minutes, please. Head of the Committee on Fuel Energy, Mikola Martinenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear friends, the committee discussed at today's meeting a bill of 3084 amending some of the Ukrainian laws on enterprises in mainstream pipeline transport and recommending it to be adopted by the Supreme Council as a basis and as a whole. According to the committee, the adoption of the bill will contribute to the creation of additional guarantees to preserve the national acquisition of Ukraine, which is a pipeline system. The bill is balanced because on the one hand it creates additional guarantees, on the other hand, allowing operational management, including by creating new state-owned enterprises with a percentage state ownership. Please support, and on the committee, everyone voted unanimously, representing all the factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u87	Is there no objection? No questions? Have a seat, please. Would you like to perform? Anyone who wants to sign up for the show, sign up. Please, Grigorovitch. Ten minutes. Please. About 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u88	Lila Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." The performance by the faction "Our Ukraine" will be extremely concise and consistent. We are consistent in that neither in 2004 nor in 2006 our voters voted in favour of the Prime Minister’s dictatorship. And given the powers vested today by the Prime Minister's dictatorship after the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, they give reasons to make frivolous events and the presidents of a foreign country our property, because today everything is practically committed to the Cabinet of Ministers, well, our officials and our officials to sing them accordingly. In view of their understanding that today they will name the price for the gas transport system, and tomorrow for the whole country, and while another force will sit down to work under this Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, they will surrender the whole country, and. We'll wait for that moment. The "Our Ukraine" faction blocked the rostrum on January 12th in order not to allow the consequences of what we are reaping today. So we're going to be absolutely consistent, we're going to be supporting the bill in general, both in the first and second readings against the yields of our gas transport system, our concessional payback or some other food terms, and we're going to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u89	I ask the MPs to speak, first of all, on the subject. And second of all, if there's any danger from such a law, it's kind of a threat. Because everything that sounds is not in the Cabinet of Ministers law. Baldirev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u90	Everyone present in this room certainly understands the content of today’s opposition. However, outside the hall, ordinary people, voters certainly have neither the time nor the opportunity to understand what is happening here. In fact, this is where a new electoral campaign was launched in the next assembly of Parliament and the campaign is being conducted by the bloc, our parliamentary partners, the Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko bloc. That is, it is the only political force that is interested in “piercing” today. The fact is that the law they have proposed does not make any difference to the situation. No one, President Yushchenko or the Janukovic Government, is going to hand over the gas transport system for the simple reason that, after that, everyone will really have to rest on the side of world politics. In fact, it is simply about who today is more inclined to promote their domestic policy, their policy towards voters, rather than the gas transport system, with regard to partnership with Russia, with the European Union and other international partners. That's it. Therefore, we must simply, respectable voters, understand with you what is going on today. In fact, the Government of Yanukovic has not made any exclusive proposals to Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Yes, he was indeed visited by Mr. Baloga, Head of the Presidential Secretariat. He may have made a proposal, but it has nothing to do with the Yanukovic Government. Moreover, because of his position, he could not make very revolutionary proposals because he was not the official responsible for the industry. Therefore, respectable voters, remember, you are once again “divorced”, you are deceived, you are tried to make a funny political spectacle. Please read between the lines and look at the root. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u91	Thank you. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, I look forward to the question of the fundamental, fundamental interests of our country as parliament unites. Recently, we debated an imperative mandate and four factions unanimously supported this useful cause to stop corruption in the country and supported by the President and, respectively, our Ukraine. Thus, all five factions of Parliament unanimously supported the imperative mandate. This speaks of the high level of responsibility of our Parliament, which we are demonstrating today in discussing this issue. Since it is clear that once this bill is passed, Naftogaz, or the gas transport network, will not be the business of one family, the business of a political party, or the business of a region, it will be the issue that only in the Supreme Council session hall can inform the government or another official and turn to us and say that we are ready to go to this project, but this project will benefit our country and our national interests. And only with the consent of Parliament and with the consent of the Ukrainian society will this be decided. I am convinced that this bill in Naftogaza will stop buying the most expensive Mercedes. And I am convinced that the leaders of our gas and transport structures will understand that they represent the state of Ukraine rather than represent any family ties or clans. And I'm convinced that today both parliament and the government will start thinking about such fundamental things as "the doctrine of energy security of Ukraine" so that we don't read on the Internet and hear about some culinary and secret agreements, and together we've formed this energy security of Ukraine, we have to be sure that when winter comes we won't wait for talks in Moscow hotels as it was a few years ago, we'll be sure that this winter people won't hear this morning that tariffs are rising 3.5-4 times, they'll know that the whole country is living in normal conditions, and that parliament and government will guarantee them normal realistic prices that match their wages and pensions, and the country will not be counted for their independence by what's called energy security of Ukraine. So our faction has not only initiated this bill, our faction believes that there will now be a majority vote, and the opposition will be the vote of the entire Ukrainian Parliament, because it is about protecting the national interests of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u93	Mikola Volodymyrovich, thank you for your kind words. Even clarifications can be made, not a few years ago, but two years and 32 days ago, to make it clear. Please, from the Communist faction. Instead of Kravchenka, Simonenko is speaking. And that concludes the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Respectable radio audiences! The Communist faction reaffirms its position that the largest population complexes, including the gas transport system, must be State property and work for the interests of Ukraine. Just as I believe that we must take into account the other question that these major national economic complexes, especially the gas transport system, are the result of the policies that have been implemented before and that Ukraine has inherited from the Union this largest complex. We must also take into account what we have done when we talk about players in the internal or external market, when they have kissed Krivorostal and Hindus have become the main player in the metal market and Ukraine has lost Krivorostal. I think we need to think about today how power uses its management levers and manages public property. I would like to draw attention to this particular problem of the gas transport system, when the unknown company Lazarenko+Company has done its utmost to bring Ukraine's economy to an enormous ruin through gas distribution management and put virtually the entire economy of our country on blades. I think that the historic step towards the people of Ukraine today must be taken by the policies that are expected to bring back seven and a half billion bracelets of debt that have been written off illegally for the illegal activities of the “One Energy Systems” and return these seven and a half billion bracelets to the people of Ukraine. I think that today we must be very confident about our cooperation with the Russian Federation, because it is beautiful for every healthy politician, of course, if he does not fly in the clouds and know, let us say, and once again shows that he does not know what the economy is. When I was told that gas could be added to this pipe from somewhere else, I was particularly struck by a statement by one of the leaders when they said that I was on my way to Iran to negotiate the supply of gas from Iran. I've been thinking and asking this leader, "Are you going to drive gas from Iran to Ukraine with buckets?" Therefore, the issues related to the gas transport system must be very sure of a policy in relations with Russia to protect Ukraine's national interests, to stabilize gas supply at the price of that gas, to enable Ukraine's economy to work today on energy-saving technologies. This must be a policy to protect the domestic producer. Because, in one part, the protection of national interests is referred to, and in the other part, the immediate entry into WTO destroys the domestic producer. The faction will vote and reaffirm its position that we are protecting Ukraine's national interests in a consistent manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Yvchenko asked for a word to be said, please be offended. Please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u96	Thank you. I'm addressing Julia Volodymyrna. It is not necessary to deceive the people's deputies and it is not necessary to deceive the Ukrainian people, Julia Volodymyrna, NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” took 5 billion in 2005. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. low-cost loans under 5-6 percent long term loans. And this was recorded in the finance plan of the Cabinet of Ministers when you were Prime Minister, and you signed this financial plan. Therefore, there is no need to deceive people. That's the first one. The other one. No mortgages under these forms of credit were there, they were forms of credit, and they're today and they're functioning successfully. And they were taken for substitution, the previous expensive under 20 to 100 percent of the year's. In 2004, the previous management recruited loans and advances for 15 billion dollars, and I stress this, below 20 percent and 100 percent of the annual. Therefore, there is no need to deceive people, Julia Volodymyrna. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u97	Julius Volodymyrically, please specify this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u98	Dear friends! We have Mr. Yvchenko in direct custody of the President, but I would like to remind you that there are acts by the KRA that he has sanctioned with NAK “Naftogazu”, such as buying 9 million bracelets of olive ornaments and 150,000 incomprehensible snowflakes. So I just want a little bit to stop this official who's actually going to be responsible for his activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-06-m0.u99	Thank you, thank you. It'll be clearer now. From our discussion, dear friends, I understood. I'm asking you, attention, let's get this over with. May I have your attention, please? Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. I am obliged to sum up our discussion in this way. First. We all now learned that we are loved, dear friends, and respectable friends. Dear friends, we're here in the hall. Right? Let us then agree with each other on the need to vote in favour of this law. And I think he's no doubt to anyone, even though the thesis that Julia Volodymyrna was reading here instead of the ones that I'm going to read, in the existing law, in practice. That is: “Pprivatisation, as well as the change in ownership of state-owned enterprises, is prohibited.” So the detail that Julia Volodymyr gives, it just refines this formula. I'd like you all to understand that. And that's why I'm voting on this project as a whole as a law so I don't vote a few times. [[14:40:54]] For 430 The factions, please. “Regions” – 181, Block Timoshenko – 121, “Our Ukraine” – 71, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 6. So we passed this law and I'd like to consult you further on the order of work. I'm asking for your attention. Attention! We have had a very hot discussion today about the content of the agenda for today's session, and it obviously takes extra time to analyze this plan in factions and committees. So I'd like you to support the offer, but whatever you want. I could suggest that we meet in committees and factions today at 4:00, not in the session room. And tomorrow as planned. If you support me, I'm voting on this proposal. [[14:42:17]] For 411 Thank you for supporting the position of Head of the Supreme Council. I am the head of the factions and heads of the committees and I invite you to a meeting that has been announced to discuss the future work of Parliament. The morning session is closed. There will be a meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m.
