ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, guests invited by the Supreme Council, representatives of the media! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system, we register. [[10:05:05]] There are 257 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Yes, please, we have 30 minutes to announce applications, petitions, messages. Please sign up for factions. And please, the people's deputies. Yes, dear colleagues, the recording is done. Let us not violate our traditions. Today, Yuri Dmitrovich Chertkov celebrates his next birthday, with which we sincerely welcome him. [[Applause]] Yes, please, Eugene Marmazov, the Communist faction. Prepare Vasil Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, I would like to express my concern at the position and, to put it mildly, the under-considered statements made by the newly delivered Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on matters relating to the security of our country. Recently, while in another foreign army, he had in fact approved plans for the deployment of elements of the American ABM system in the Czech Republic and Poland, stating that they did not pose a threat to Ukraine and other States. In this regard, allow me to draw attention to the material that was published on 26 April in the newspaper “Day”, referring to Polish Defence Minister Alexander Shegl. [[She can't be suspected of being anti-American.]] The paper reported that Poland supported the US proposal to place 10 US invaders on its territory in exchange for enhanced security assurances from the country and Western Europe as a whole. And so on. And Shegla refused to say what guarantees Poland required in exchange for the deployment of anti-missiles, but the Polish media reported that it might be the supply of American ABM complexes designed to defeat Russian short-range missiles. Is it not clear what danger this could pose to Ukraine between Poland and Russia? What could be a threat to the rocket “loving things” between them? Moreover, the Americans have openly stated their intention to involve Ukraine in the ABM plans, to drag it into NATO and even to contribute millions of dollars to this end by taking decisions by the Congress on this issue. In a statement, the well-known US expert on Russia, Stephen Cohen, in an interview recently published under the express title “The New Front of the New Cold War is going through Ukraine”, said: “The United States needs to stop the policies of NATO enlargement, without which there can be no good relations between Russia and the United States. The discussions in Washington on the inclusion of Georgia and Ukraine in the Alliance should therefore be stopped immediately. Of course you have to say about the A.T.A. First, this system will never work effectively. Secondly, no one in Poland, no Czech Republic.” End of quote. Why is the Ukrainian Minister playing tricks on these provocative plans if their implementation can further worsen the already depraved relations of Ukraine with our northern neighbour? Why does the Minister ignore the clear and unequivocal position on this issue of the Supreme Council? What country does he work for? I believe that the Government must take away this immature but already incurable figure until he has caused our country irreparable harm and its security. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Vasil Bogchuk, the Socialist faction. Bokom, Ivan Bokom. Please be prepared for the Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u4	Dear voters, dear colleagues! I have had to speak from this rostrum with the criticism of Victor Yushchenk for his illiterate scribbling of the Ukrainian language. The president, however, continues to cripple her even more, evidently thinking that if the Constitution is not the law for him, there are no language laws for him or her. But what I want to do now is not talk about the President's philological inadequacy and his team, I just want to show in two examples how verbal illiteracy, by imposing legal nihilism, has the effect of absolute impossibility. Last night’s issue of the newspaper Delo contains the oats of the President’s representative at the Constitutional Court of Vladimir Shapoval. Opus isn't random. Mr. Chapoval wants to legally base the vague and unconstitutional right of the President to send the Cabinet of Ministers to resign. In today's conditions, for all to understand, such a move by the President would mean a coup d'état that he wouldn't cover up as a thief. The Supreme Council and only the Supreme Council can appoint and release the Cabinet of Ministers. The President's right in the Constitution is not even implied. Mr. Shapoval, confessing that he has a clear answer as a constitutionalist regarding the President's right to a coup d'état, i.e. the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, does not, however, suggest that lawyers will find a link to the President. How can we do so if the Constitution does not allow it? And the President's representative is demonstrating the height of philosophical illiteracy and, at the same time, absolute disrespect for the Constitution as the basic law of the State. He writes that his own self-determining, and for him alone, the misunderstandings in the Constitution are a testimony -- don't laugh -- to her arrogance, to the arrogance of the Constitution. Did you get anything? Mr. Shapoval, do not follow the example of Mr. Yashchenk’s disrespect for his mother tongue. Any dictionary will say that the word "proud" cannot be applied to an inanimate object. “Pudden” means proud, proud, confident, someone who thinks himself to be superior to others and who can be only human. Here, indeed, we can talk about the arrogance of Shapoval, or Yashchenka, who consider themselves to be wiser than the Constitution. To do this, they need to have a measure of insolence, and it appears to be sufficient. It's not about philological finesse at all, is it? Mr. Shapoval, perhaps, meant that the Constitution was too clever. But then what? Is she supposed to be stupid? It's weird not to say worse. How ignoring language skills can lead the President into political, not philosophical, situations, Mr. Yushchenko has led a great deal into meeting with the working group. You remember his truly arrogant waving of his hands in an effort to prove some logic of his actions. Using this word in the sense of a set of logical things for him, obviously steps in the itch to take illegal, anti-constitutional, time-consuming elections, Mr. Yushchenko probably forgot that logistics and logic in politics, in general, are as far away as planets of the solar system are from one another. What logic is, everyone knows. What is logistics? It's one of two, or, firstly, a chapter of mathematics that's based on mathematical methods and explores its ability to construct information, and so on, but not the very science of logic. Or the second, entrepreneurial activity of controlling the movement of materials on the enterprise from raw materials to providing ready goods to the consumer, which could best be done, is told by our socialist deputy, recognized in the world as a logistics leader in Ukraine – Igor Anatoliyovich Urbanski. What, say, Mr. Yushchenko spoke about in the light of these values of logistics. Here was a reminder: “Arcady, do not speak beautifully.” This is about serious shifts in political, legal logic not only in words but also in the actions of the President. Proudness, a truly bad helper, and even if the ammunition is clearly giving way to ambition. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And intellectual, political, legal, administrative. And that's sad for the state. The ignorance of rulers cannot be forever punished by Ukraine. And you can't do anything about the mother tongues that the President occasionally uses. Like her people, it is important not to love her abstractly, but to know, to know her well. And to the Lords of Yushchenk and Shapavall as well as to all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u5	Thank you. Sergey the Great has the word. He's got five fractional minutes, and Leonid the Mordecai gives him three more minutes of his own, so he's eight minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! I have been preparing for this speech for the last two weeks, observing what is happening in the framework of the so-called “working negotiating group”. And so at the beginning, I'm going to say some banal things, and at the very end, I'm going to say my own personal view of the legal way out of the situation. Banal stuff. Clearly, the country was overwhelmed by the substituting of the rule of law by the principle of political relevance. We know what revolutionary relevance is in the famous years of Bolshevikism and Bolshevik dictatorship. But we know what the President said on January 23, 2005: “I see Ukraine.” It was when he accepted the inauguration, he said, “I see Ukraine under the rule of law.” So in these two years, and especially in the context of its direct involvement and leadership, Ukraine has been transformed into a lawless country, not a country that has no right, but a country in which there is no right. It's an overcrowded territory. Ukraine has become a hostage of political ambitions, and society in particular. They run the processes of political extremists, and they deliberately innovate the inadequacy of the need for early elections. It really works out the principle of political relevance, which leads to chaos, to illegality, to anything illegal, to everything permitted. And the last thing that can be said is that the President proves that he has an inherent sense of responsibility to his colleagues among “loving friends”, neither to his colleagues in opposition nor to his people. Yesterday the President of France, saying goodbye to the French people, said two final sentences. He said: “Let the Republic live, ” or “Glory to the Republic, the glory of France. ” For France, which has appreciated the concept of “Republic” for 300 years and more, these words are not priceless words. Do we, in 17 years, understand what a “republika” is, that it is a matter of the people, a thing of the people. And the two elements make up the people's affairs -- that's the power of the people, that's the public power and the money of the people, that's the budget that the people allocate to sustaining this power. There is nothing more in the people in the “Republic” than public authority and national money. So what I want to ask is, what is this working group? Who appointed her for the republic, for the national cause? Is this private business? Is this some sort of piece, saboteur amongst themselves? Where her legitimacy is. What did her Parliament delegate? I understand that if it were a sabantuist among political leaders, the parliamentary factions, there is no problem. But the president, the head of state, is speaking there. And what, I can't understand what the ex-president, the first president of Ukraine, Leonid Kravchuk is doing there? How's a private person? Who sent her there? I realize that in such an approach it might be necessary to add the youngest political actor behind the internship of Grandma Parasca and perhaps even the latest European level of actioner, Verek Serduchek. Because we have Ukrainian experience, we have the experience of the conflict between John Plush and Leonid Krawchuk in 1993, the speaker and the president. How did this end? The political compromise that was legitimized by the Supreme Council ended. The decision was made here, and the people's representatives decided that there would be parliamentary and presidential elections for the term. And both the President and the Parliament agreed, but the process was legitimized. We have another experience of opposition. The head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Moroz, is President of Kuchma, 1995. What's going on? So is the threat of tanks, the threat of a Russian script. What's going on? The process in the Supreme Council is legitimized by the representatives of the people. There is the creation of a special commission to come out of a political crisis, and a political instrument -- the Constitutional Treaty -- is being signed. First in the Marian Palace, then he votes here. And the President of Ukraine signs his signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u7	It's the vote, and then it's in the Marian Palace.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u8	And so on. But there is a legitimacy of the representative organ of the people of the Republic, one that was born in France more than 300 years ago, ridding itself of the oppressive monarchy, the absolute monarchy. I consider it necessary to stress the two factors involved in the negotiations of this working group. These two factors should motivate the decision to accept or reject the President's actions aimed at eliminating the current and timely election of the next composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First, first factor. Who or what may prevail on the scales of the political crisis in Ukraine, the objective of which is the tactical victory of the anti - Ukrainian and anti - Christian forces in Ukraine and which imposes strategic development of the presidential elections in Russia in a way similar to that of the Ukrainian model. In case the patriotic forces continue to give up hope of premarital arrangements, they lose. The one who has already declared the place of Ukraine will win, because he is a friend of Yulia Timoshenko, the newly elected President of France, said literally on the days that we need Ukraine as a NATO member, not as a member of the European Union. So we know how Turkey has been banging on the door to Brussels for 30 years now, but it's a NATO member. It is possible that someone really needs the territory of Ukraine and not the European Ukraine. The territory of Ukraine, not European values in Ukraine. Is this not a road map for Ukraine, which, according to our President's popular words, has been developed long ago and strategically before the presidential elections, and if anyone is at a disadvantage to the implementation of this road map, even with all its consolidated assets and liabilities, it will be physically destroyed. [[in quotes]] What are the billions of Ahmutova, Hajduk, whom will they call? Pinchuca. If all these lands were to unite millionaires and billionaires to defend Ukrainian interests with their money, it would be enough to wipe out the tears of President Bush’s sand. The only thing that can sway the political crisis in Ukraine towards the interests of its people is its inviolability to resolve it from the Constitution of Ukraine and its rule of law. For the Constitution is the will of a people whose truth of power has not yet been won. And it's also about the same arrangements. I will not humiliate the higher legislature.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u9	Now. No, there won't be three. Give me a minute. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u10	I want to finish, Alexander Alexanderovich, if anyone can step down for another three minutes, I want to finish exactly what I said. The same arrangements I will not demean the higher legislature, as those who have dropped it, have been dropped by both the President and those who have participated from the coalition in the work of the working group, offering something to us, then it is unknown to anyone from what. I think this has been dropped because Parliament has been removed from the political process, seeking political compromise. But what I'm saying is that Ukraine is a state, it has a Constitution, it has a law, and it's not a market, it's not an arrow. I want to ask you who those who have declared their inviolability to the Constitution are going to make a deal in the future, not to mention high-responsibility politics, are going on a deal with whoever there is any confidence in. But on a powerful, deep foundation of evidence, which shows that there is no obligation, no honesty, and no betrayal of one of the main subjects of the negotiating process can be further betrayed. The material symbol of this objective evidence base, the value of words spoken and done with is the house on Gruszewski, 9th. It is a long time to hang a memorial board in honor of the motto “Not by word, but by deed. Victor Yushchenko!’ And the last. Three options for the legitimacy of the early parliamentary elections that I see them and for which the work of the working group is as far as possible, and for the work of all legislative initiatives. First. The exit of the Coalition Party of the Regions, the exit of the Socialist Party of the Coalition, the exit of the Communist faction from the coalition. Then the coalition breaks down and then there are all the formal legal grounds for disbanding Parliament. Someone wants an early election, do it, do it, and then go to the elections in the order set out in the Constitution. The other one. The Constitutional Court's decision on the constitutionality of the President's decrees. There will be a decision by the Constitutional Court, only then will the working group of some person who has to be legitimized have the right and the authority or ability to do anything, there is no decision by the Constitutional Court – there is no basis for legitimate elections. And third, lastly, this is from Ukrainian experience, Alexander Alexander, this is a quasi-constitutional solution, quasi-constitutional legitimacy. We made a decision on what, then, in 1993, about the early elections? Two thirds. It was outside the Constitution, and it was a constitutional majority. Then Ivan Stepanovich Plush remembers me as I was treated in a sanatorium and dictated to him the text of the decree granting authority to Kuchmi or the law granting authority to Kuchmi to issue unregulated decrees. And then it wasn't in the Constitution, then it was two thirds, it was a quasi-constitutional path. Third. I think that if there's no Constitutional Court ruling, if any factions don't come out of the coalition, there's a third way -- it's a quasi-constitutional consolidation of the outcome in the Supreme Council -- two thirds. We adopt a law that consists of two articles. The first article is the election for the term. Article 2: At the same time as the parliamentary elections, a nationwide survey on confidence in the President of Ukraine is being conducted. How many people will speak for their trust if less than 50 percent of voters trust the President, the President in this second article writes that he resigns. [[Applause]] Then the Supreme Council, by two thirds, votes, the President signs it, this law, and this is a political agreement that is achieved in a quasi-constitutional way, but legal. Then it'll be the rule of law, it'll be fair, it'll be a political compromise legally formed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u11	Thank you. Radziewski is written.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Statement by the MP of the Party of the Regions on the political situation in Ukraine. The parliamentary faction of the Party of Regions another time highlights the attention of society, politicians in our principled position. A party of regions strongly demands from all branches of government in Ukraine, from officials of all ranks and levels of strict adherence to the rules of the Constitution and the laws. Of particular importance, our demands are acquired in today’s tense time when The President of the State, under pressure of opposition, adopted a political decision to dissolve the legitimately elected people of the Supreme Council and to hold parliamentary elections for the term. The head of state, his environment, they call this a political and legal decision. But if you gentlemen consider your actions to be legal, at least follow the requirements of the law in force. Unfortunately, the opposition led by the President has gone beyond the rule of law, continued to ignore active legislation based on the principle of revolutionary desirability. But it's time to end this ridiculous revolution, move on to state development and raise the standard of living of our voters with you. The pattern for this is that you, the revolutionaries, are brilliant and convincing, this is the government of Viktor Yanukovich. A party of regions offered a clear, transparent and clear approach to getting out of a deaf political corner, offering a road map. This is the way of compromise, the way to national understanding. The essence of our proposals is well - known in this room. After developing the road map, we rose above the narrowly party interests and took a step in the interests of the entire nation. We expect similar steps from our negotiating partners. We propose adopting a series of laws that will allow elections to be held on legal grounds. Therefore, these laws should be adopted by consensus in this Supreme Council Hall in order to avoid grounds for dissatisfaction with part of the political forces after the elections have been held. Unfortunately, in response to this constructive and honest proposal, we are constantly hearing political statements that demonstrate: the opposition has already begun a very populism-electoral campaign. Today, expressions in their mouths have become very fashionable that there is a crisis in the state. But all of us understand it very well, and the people of Ukraine see it as well: we have no state crisis, we have no government crisis, we have no parliament crisis, we have no society crisis. The crisis exists within the framework of individual political bankruptcys, separate political parties and their efforts to shift their problems to the entire society of Ukraine, at least it sounds like a crime in front of their people. A party of regions, as a responsible and patriotic force, raises a very important question to the initiators of today's crisis, and what will change the elections in the life of a simple person that they will bring to the ordinary citizen? The answer is clear: they won't change anything and they won't give people any good choices. What, then, is the purpose of this election? On the day of the vote, citizens will certainly ask political backgrounds that have knocked our nation out of the mainstream path of increasing prosperity on the wrong path of political adventure. Real changes for the better are already felt. Only thanks to the concerted, professional activities of the parliamentary majority in today’s Supreme Council and its established Cabinet of Ministers led by Viktor Yanukovic. Economic growth allowed the government to propose to the Supreme Council in December last year a step-by-step increase in wages, pensions and other payments to the population. Two stages of salary and pensions have already taken place and two more will take place by the end of this year. We will not allow anyone to violate the laws that are in force. In strict compliance with article 26, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies, the work of all the subjects of the electoral process throughout Ukraine will be highly monitored and there should be no doubt about it. Dear voters, we assure you, the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u13	You can't do this anymore. Let's get this over with. The public heard, let me finish the last sentence and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u14	And we assure you that the Party of Regions will not deviate from the basic principle, if the elections are early, on the basis of the law and the consensus of all the leading politicians of our nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u15	Thank you. This is Samuel Catherine Semenovna. Please. From the faction, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u16	I. No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u17	Oh, alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u18	Thank you. Our constituents speak and show the only island of democracy and freedom in Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We address you with pain, although we are confident that your soul is in pain day and night for the Motherland, that you are more than capable of experiencing what awaits our children, who will ensure the quiet old age of those who have made Ukraine rich than that Ukraine has randomly chosen the President of you and all of us have been storming for three years. And I'd like to stop at a letter, my speech, on a letter I received from Peter Ivanovich, and I understand that you don't have to call your name from the town of Zoloczów in the Lviv district. He writes that I wrote a letter to our master of Ukraine, to the President, thanking him from the people of Ukraine for his command, for the crisis, the famine, the wantonness, for the slavery in which he had thrown us, for the repeated famine in 1932-1933, when the people were really dying, the aces had dominated him. He writes in this letter that our best sons and daughters are abroad on wages, that our people, our women, sell themselves into that hell and become prostitutes. He says: “Is it not a matter of concern to us whether you are concerned, Mr. President, that children have become orphans in the presence of living parents, young parents? Who will answer that question? But the people curse you, do you not hear it?” And I really read what this person writes, perhaps illiterately, but writes from the heart. Mr. Yushchenko, I would advise you to give your Katrusia a month at a boarding house abroad. Just like our women work there, and see if they're cute dollars that they make or not. And finally, most importantly, Mr. Yushchenko, if you don't have a conscience like the President, the people ask you to resign. You don't have to torture poor people, because our nation, this man writes, I can't imagine, our nation is still like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u19	Please, Kiselov. Philindash gave him his word, he's speaking. And we end this part of the sitting. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u20	I've got six minutes, San Sanich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u21	I told you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u22	And they've included three. Respectable compatriots, respected colleagues and representatives of the media! I went to this rostrum to inform you, as Vice-Chairman of the Regulatory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and on specific examples to show the cynicism and insolence of those who had created an artificial political crisis in the country, in order to establish full, uncontrolled authority over the country at any cost, even though they had it less than a year ago, but because of greed, they were literally overstepping their portfolios by accusing each other of corruption. I would like to inform you that today they have half the committees, as well as the post of Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The opposition controls the entire executive branch today because its representatives are headed by all, I stress, all regional and 92 per cent of the district government administrations. The opposition almost completely entangled the third independent branch of State power, the judiciary, beginning with the Constitutional Court. But it's been said so many times that I'm afraid you don't see it anymore. And no one is surprised when the guarantor of compliance with the laws and the Constitution of Ukraine once again demonstrates to Ukrainian citizens that laws and the Constitution can be violated with impunity. That's a dangerous example. In my statement, I will try briefly, but it is justified to answer the questions of the media and to demonstrate to our voters all cynicism and intrusiveness of the opposition who are fighting the so-called benefits, and in fact, I will now show you, I read, in my hands, a letter dated 13 October 2006, from BUT leader Timoshenko to the President of the Supreme Council of the Frost in which she writes. “As you are well aware, our faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine remains the most consistent proponent of the elimination of all kinds of benefits, which, at the same time, have been hindered from the poor Ukrainian people.” The truth takes the heart. And now I'm going to show you how the BUT faction and our Ukraine are fighting these very benefits. Here's document number one. The Free Medical Services and Travel and Treatment Act. The BUT faction and Timoshenko personally vote in favour. Document two. The author of the “Our Ukraine” faction, the Cultural Act “On the establishment of a pension for a national MP of 80 per cent of the salary”. The Faction BUT and Our Ukraine respectively shall vote in favour.” Document number three. The Act on the Provision of Housing to People's Deputies or Money Compensation for the Acquisition of Housing in Kiev, co-sponsored by the First Vice-President of the BUT-Turkish faction. The BUT faction naturally votes in favour. I have to give these examples, and I hope that after that the voters will think and make the right conclusions. Consider why the President of Ukraine, namely, he has declared to the world that Timoshenko, as Prime Minister, has written off ESU's debt from Ukraine's budget and then the President does nothing to repay 7 billion 500 million grivens. Remember, until then, you will be undernourished, unable to heal properly, not able to teach your children as long as you bow down to those who stole billions of dollars, and you remain unpunished, and at that time you may be held behind bars by a bag of grain. Now it's the most interesting thing. I'll read you two documents. Letter from Ephraim, Chairman of the Committee, to Timoshenko: “Dear Julia Volodymyrno! The media reported that according to article 81, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the mandate of the people's deputies of the faction you have led has been suspended for the term. In view of the fact that the issue of the status of the Nardep Ukraine and the provision of the activities of the Supreme Council belong to the subject of our committee, please send the relevant documents to the committee.” According to April 28, Turkinov is the deputy head of the faction. So I'm not going to write everything on your letter and so on: "We'll make a decision, we'll send documents after the CTC's decision to exclude all candidates from the National Deputies list. The relevant documents to the CEC are given to us.” Now, dear friends, the conclusions are: as you know, on 30 April, the Central Electoral Commission granted the request of the people's deputies from the BUT and the BUT faction, and they made it through the courts to exclude them from the list of naphthas. They all stated that they recognized the Presidential Decree on the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As you can see, even through the courts, they did. But some of them are deputies: “Our Ukraine” - Bychkov, while from BUT Kamchatny, Korj Vitaly, Tomenko Nikolai, did not participate in the session, nor did the committees for April-month receive full pay. With regard to the so-called MPs, and this is precisely a benefit, 66 deputies received from the “Our Ukraine” faction in April, 105 deputies received from the BUT factions, including Timoshenko, Shkil, Yavorivsky, Lásko, Nemira, Polochalo, Portnov, Kurpil, Ževago, Bilorus, Bodnar, Bondarenko, Volínec, Gubsky, Denisova, Senchenko and many others. [[B in m in s a l in]] I will continue to demonstrate to you the documents from which it follows that today, 31 members from the BUT faction and eight deputies from Our Ukraine live in the Kiev hotel, and that the Ruzicki MP who received the apartment in the previous assembly does not release the hotel number, for which the Supreme Council has already paid over 100,000 bracelets, and today the debt of some 30,000 bracelets. And the hotel manager asked the committee to influence such a member. We had to make a decision yesterday to advise the hotel manager to go to court and get the money through the court. In addition, as at 15 May, the Supreme Council of Ukraine provided housing to members of the BUT faction: Budgerak, Zabzaluk, Kamchatny, Mostipán, Rybakov, Skoubenko. I'll call you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u23	I'm asking you to invest in the rules you requested. 30 seconds and we'll be done. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u24	I further call you the list of deputies from the BUT faction and our Ukraine, who received compensation from 300 to 500,000 grivens for the purchase of housing in the city of Kiev. This is Goroskovic, Zejnalov, Knazević, Maruschenko, Stasiv. In addition, I inform you that the BUT faction. The BUT and Our Ukraine factions are fully using the cars that are built behind these factions. It's thousands of miles. Also, vehicles are used to the full by the leaders of parliamentary committees such as Prokopović, Martinenko, Serbin, Calchenko, Yavorivsky, Shevchenko. That is at a time when they do not organize the work of the committees, they do not accept the work of the Supreme Council and the committees. I'd say tickets, I can't help but say. Excuse me, one moment. I'm talking about myself. I've been flying 500 bracelets a year for a plane. Next to me are Sanchenko and Denisova – 1,280 griven tickets in the same direction. [[Crimea deputies]] They fly in business class, I fly in economics class. All year. And no one's gonna prove that that's not true! And to the end. Dear friends, I think you will support me until the opposition deputies participate in the work of the Supreme Council, considering themselves not to be MPs and, at the same time, suddenly and cynically playing on the feelings of the electorate, they have neither the moral nor legal right to go to the register, order a car, live in a hotel and fly on planes or ride trains with the means of voters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u25	Honourable MPs, not commenting on any statement, but speaking of continuing the topic that is now, as it were, in the information space that is present after Vasil Alexiyovich's speech, I want to say that all the discussions about the MPs having made their mandates are chats. None. No one had any authority. These were statements for the rally, but not really the case. Therefore, it is clear that when a member of parliament applies to the register for a salary, he is paid for it. Another point is that the payment order provides for a table of exit to work. And when the head of the committee, signing this table, makes passes against those who don't participate in Parliament meetings, or in the sessional room, or in the committee work, then conflicts arise, the MPs start to say, "Well, if that's the case, I don't get paid a salary!" What are you gonna pay for?Oh, my God! Why, then, should you pay if you do not do what is prescribed by your status and responsibilities? I think that's where the committee heads are completely justified. I warn you, or I appeal to the committee heads with a request: clearly control the exits, and form the exit tables to pay the wages accordingly. I realize that for many who consider themselves to be opposition, this money means nothing. However, there must be some state order in this regard. On the other hand, there is another need. That's what I remember. I have been in opposition for eight years without being the Head of the Supreme Council. I flew abroad, I flew across Ukraine, I never used a VIP room. Because going through the VIP room means paying another ticket, but paying the parliament, not paying the people's MP. I'm seeing now in a list where those who say they're no longer deputies continue to use the VIP hall, walk, as it were, straight away, laundering money out of the budget. You can't do that, after all, it's rude. I think so, and I'd like us all to support that line. It's about other things. There's been a lot of, I'd say, that kind of, you know, reproach, including the President's address, about individual, say, language sins or something, or whatever. I don't want this to sound like a session, but we understand very well that the reasons for this are made by the President's Institute and itself. So let us not reproach each other when all work on the basis of the Constitution, when all are governed by the law and the Constitution. I believe that this is the way it should be done, and then all those remarks, reprimands and even mutual excuses will be removed, when both matters so require, and the need not to burn the relationship between the authorities in our country. A replica? Please, Jaroslav Petrovich Mendus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u26	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, the President's efforts in the wrong way to stop the term of office of the Supreme Council, to try to release the judges of the Constitutional Court from the violation of the procedure, to interfere harshly with the work of the courts of general jurisdiction, all of this is evidence of an attempt to block the work of the judicial system in Ukraine. Parliament must respond to such things through parliamentary methods. Last week, I raised the question of whether it was appropriate to hold parliamentary hearings on the state of justice in Ukraine. I'd like to go back to this proposal, put it to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u27	I apologize because Jaroslav Petrovich wrote me a note on this subject. He made this proposal at a previous meeting, and I, having received so many materials here, simply missed, did not put this proposal to the vote. So there's an offer for the next Wednesday to organize the hearing. If you support this idea, we'll do it by properly preparing it, and by giving an order now, a corresponding commission to the profile committee. Let's vote on this proposal. I'm voting on this proposal. Please, next Wednesday. [[10:50:38]] For 253 Chechnya's stuck, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, honourable deputies, may be enough to deceive people and people should know the truth. I propose a full report by the deputy head of the Committee from the Rules of Acid Vassil Alexiyyovich to be published in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, so that people can read the names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u29	Well, you don't have to vote here. Please turn around. If I have to, I'll write a proposal. Then I'm going to ask you this: you have a fractional quota, you solve this question, it's going to be printed on the fractional quota. Please, you have the right. And he's a member of the faction, he can address it accordingly. Only I would ask to edit the text in such a way that it is readable, as journalists say. Please. And here I'm opening the papers so you can read what's relevant to the agenda. I have a document at my address, as well as at the address of the President, the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council, yet Victor Hajduk, he is not in this position, and Prime Minister Yanukovic. The Galician Regional Association of the All-Ukrainian Society of Education, the name of Shevchenka, in Lviv, is addressed: "The Galician District Union of the city of Lviv supports the President's decree to dissolve the Supreme Council and, if necessary, to introduce the Presidential Government of the State." Well, the cultural state might demand that because it doesn't understand what's going on. Let's suppose. But the appendix. The number of signatures is 290. I emphasize that this is the Galican District Association of Education. I'm reading, who are these 290 people? That's right, there is. Here they are, signed. Whether it was signed by different people or not -- no one's going to check it out, no one needs it. But this is an open letter from the deputy corps of Strija, which was adopted at the seventh session of the fifth call on 16 January 2007 -- on the limitation of the functioning of Ukrainian language in the national information space of Ukraine, which has no bearing on what the Education Society is talking about, to the presidential decree, which was then only thought out and not signed, and all this, sorry, is added to the leaders of the state as an argument for the support of the President. [[I'm looking for a word that doesn't offend the English language.]] Well, come on, people are good, don't embarrass yourself. I am addressing the representatives of Education, who have played a positive role in protecting the language and culture of Ukraine in their own time. What are you doing? At least you're responsible for what you've said. I think I signed here a hot, board head, if that's what he signed, but the seal is educational. At least report to yourself what you are doing, what forgeries you are manipulating with a social consciousness. We have a first question planned for today: the information of the Attorney General, the Minister of Internal Affairs, in charge of the Head of the Security Service regarding the legal evaluation of the statements made by representatives of the President's Secretariat about the existence of a threat to the lives of individual statesmen. Is anyone in the D.A.'s office? I'd like to say there's no representative from the D.A.'s office right now. We'll invite him tomorrow, for nine o'clock tomorrow. Because they made brief written information. But perhaps there will be some questions for the deputies, and they will be answered. So tomorrow I would ask the Secretariat, remind the Attorney General's Office again tomorrow, a representative of the Attorney General's Office, is referring to the discharge of the Attorney General's duties, will be here and will be informed of the substance of the matter. And now Vasil Petrovich Tsushko, Minister, wait, the Minister of Internal Affairs has a word for information. According to the Rules, he may speak for 10 minutes as needed, and five minutes as a question, please use these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u30	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished people's deputies. Some Internet publications and television channels on 11 May 2007 issued a statement by the Head of the Chief Security Service on the activities of the Office of the President of Ukraine, Valérie Helet, on the alleged assassinations of individual politicians, particularly those in opposition. It was alleged that the most radical policies, foreign political technologies, and the responsible employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs could be involved in these atrocities. The College of the Ministry of the Interior considers such statements to be groundless and provocative. None of the leaders of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine is a member of a party and is involved in political activities, and no more is the organization of provocations and attempts on politicians. The author of the statement, as a police officer with considerable work experience, now a high-ranking civil servant, is well aware of the treatment in such cases. He is well aware of the importance of responding immediately to the information received. I would like to stress in particular that the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the police units, the police in other locations, Mr. Helletej has not made a statement regarding the reported facts. We have checked this in all regions and found that the internal affairs authorities do not have information on the preparation of attempts on political figures. Given the very dangerous nature of such statements to society and the State, the Ministry of the Interior immediately informed the facts set out by the Helet, the Attorney-General's Office and the Ukrainian Security Service. We have offered them maximum assistance in establishing the truth and exposing those involved. The relevant information was sent to the President of Ukraine on behalf of the MOU panel. It was stressed that when the Ministry of Internal Affairs was a stabilizing force in the State, public order was ensured, such deliberate actions aimed at destabilizing the situation in the State, undermining confidence in public authorities. As the declaration was made public in the media, it was registered under existing legislation on 12 May at the main office to combat organized crime of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Ministry requested Mr. Helet to come to the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide an official statement. However, he refused to do so without any explanation. Ms. Timoshenko, who had not responded to such an invitation, had also been heard in her statement. Only Mr. Lucenko came to the Ministry of State yesterday and explained that he did not have any information on the preparations for the assassination of him and the other masters. The check is ongoing. In view of the rhetoric and the direction of the statement, it can certainly be argued that this action was designed to discredit law enforcement agencies, in particular the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Colleges of the Ministry of the Interior have requested the President and the Attorney-General's Office to conduct an appropriate audit and to give a legal assessment of the actions of Mr. Helet. I am confident that the Office of the Attorney-General and the Ukrainian Security Service will promptly review the information provided and take appropriate procedural decisions. Let's move on. I would like to inform you that, to date and tomorrow, two political parties have applied for a multi-thousands of shares in Kiev, at least 100,000 people. In this regard, I, the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine, have an obligation to ensure security. And I'm the only one who's responsible for how much power and resources I do it. And regardless of the opposition, the coalition is running, I've always assigned my deputies, they've been counting forces, and we've been pulling forces from the regions. Today, more than 2,000 members of the Ministry of the Interior have been raised in Kiev. That's what I'm saying to calm down those who get upset. And I declare responsiblely that, while I am the Minister of the Interior, I have created, together with the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry staff, with the College of the Ministry, conditions for you to engage in political dialogue, you, politicians, deputies, policies of different levels and different authorities, and in no way have you gone beyond the legal field of the country. It is my responsibility that the Ministry of the Interior will not use force options anywhere, in support of anyone, but not allow anyone to use force and go beyond the Constitution and impose laws. We will respect and respect the law of the militia, and at that time there are no claims for law and order. If there's any minor violations, they're isolated cases, but there's no such thing as force options. I'm calming down those who are starting to push, calling the Ministry, and believe me, these calls are very easy for me to respond to. I'm listening to everyone, but I have a police bill, and I'm going to act by the law of the police. The next point, in the southern areas, in seven areas, we have now begun to develop a preventive anti-trafficking operation, to combat illegal immigration, to combat other crimes, drug abuse and so on. In these areas, there is serious work with local authorities. What am I talking about? I say that the beginning of political destabilization has increased the trend in the country since April, at various levels, including at different levels. I appeal to you, as members, in the exercise of your parliamentary control, to assist us. Because political dialogue, political opposition, on the ground, has begun to grab land, property, and so on. I'm asking you to assist the police on all the signals you know, at least give us a mandate to deal with them. The next moment, we are being accused, and in the statement, it was that the criminal element had intensified and so on. Of course, they're trying to fish in a cloudy pond, but the Ministry of the Interior has only recently filed documents for 132 organized criminal groups, that's more recently. Further, since the new year, we have been detained by so-called thieves in the law, eight people, so-called criminal authorities, eight others, 16 others. We're working, we're walking, we need to get the Ministry of Internal Affairs somewhere, because we don't allow a boat called Ukraine to be spread. Next moment. I regret, for example, that some officials have taken responsibility in our consideration of the matter without asking the Ministry of the Interior, and said that we would not be able to ensure the rule of law in time for Europe's Day. Europeans have therefore cancelled the celebration of Europe's Day in Ukraine. This is a disgrace to Ukraine. And I declare that the Ministry of the Interior has no involvement in this, and I have personally called the Ambassador of the European Union, and I have said that I am prepared to guarantee any security in any place in Ukraine where any action will be carried out. Regrettably, he said that the decision had already been made, and it was all moved to later lines. I'm sorry about that. Because it's our country's discredit. It's the same investment climate and everything. Well, basically, I have everything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u31	Any questions to Vasil Petrovich? Sign up. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u32	Dear Vassili Petrovich! The complete idiocy of his personality was demonstrated by Mr. Helletaj on the TV "Freedom of Speech" last Friday. The people once again saw that, for the time being, such worthless people as the Hellet, whose professional level is below the plitus, would work in the Office of the President, the level of decrees and would shake the country. I have another question. Thus, is there any legitimate basis for bringing Mr. Hellet to justice, since his statement could be regarded as a violation of the State's constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u33	Dear Mikhail Vasilevich! Once again, the staff member is, let's say, a client of the Attorney-General's Office and the Security Service. The Ministry of the Interior has nothing to do with it. And on behalf of any policy, including civil servants, you know I'm no worse at speaking. But if you notice, I'm not speaking today, and I'm not giving an interview. This is because today, I am the Minister of the Interior and from a misinterpreted or misinterpreted word, there may be a very different information. That's why I'm trying to act when you call me here and talk about what's out of the Supreme Council Hall, and I'm responsible for what I'm saying. I call on all politicians, who are in opposition, in coalition, to understand that we are in the same country. And there will be no division of the country as anyone wants or does for one simple reason: because the people won't let it, they will count any policy that wants it. And there will be no civil war and there will be no blood, and there will be no strong options, at least the Ministry of the Interior will not allow that. And I've been communicating with everyone in selector mode.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u34	Let me finish my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u35	I talked to everyone: the situation is under our control, we will not allow any provoker at any level, starting with the silrada, ending with Kiev to spread the country. So there is only one solution — within the framework of the law, within the framework of political dialogue. And I call upon all, including those who make such statements as a friend of yours has done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u36	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u37	Thank you, Communist faction, Cibenko. Dear colleagues, everyone knows long ago who shouts: “Hold the thief!” I won't comment. Second. I thank you for the clear position of the Ministry in respect of compliance with the Constitution and legislation. And third. The proposal, Alexander Alexandrovich, given the resonability of the issue that we are considering today, and it has indeed received a broad resonance in society today, I ask and propose to discuss at least this information briefly. Let's say that if we have a lack of time, at least one statement from each faction. Because, indeed, answers to questions must be given. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u38	Peter Stepanovich, there's only one thing I can say. Although I have been appointed by the votes of a coalition sitting here in the Hall, I stress that, if you notice, the Ministry behaves equally far away from all political forces and operates only under the Police Act. And I thank you for not choking and demanding there, for supporting us in any way, because. [[I mean the coalition representatives.]] And please, when representatives of the coalition make a statement, be careful, too, with the use of the word “terror”, there are others, and so on, because it destabilizes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u39	Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u40	Dear Vassili Petrovich, the connections are built into a chain. First, the judicial system is destroyed by the President's Secretariat and his team. Challenges against internal forces are further developed to provoke civil disobedience, civil conflict. I have the question that there are no people in the leadership of the Ministry who are insulted by the statement of the Helet concerning alleged links to crime and who cannot personally bring the Hellet to trial. I believe it is worthy of his national court, the Ukrainian judicial system, to judge without waiting for political conclusions from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u41	Dear comrade Bronnikov, as soon as I saw the first one, it turned on the TV and saw Mr. Hellett's statement, I called him directly. I say, "Please give me the names of the members of the Ministry of Internal Affairs," because it has been said that someone from the Deputy Minister and some other staff, please give me a call, I'll appoint an official investigation, I'll figure it out, because I don't want people like you around who can, let's just say, stab me in the back with a knife in the back. The answer was: “I will not give any names, I have submitted everything to the BPO.” At Monday's meeting with the Attorney-General, where all the forces and Mr. Heletje were, as a representative of the administration, Deputy Prime Minister Radchenko, I again asked: “Call your names”. He said, "I've sent them all to the station, they're checking." Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior has been insulted specifically by someone, and in general, we have appealed to the President and the Attorney-General's Office. I am well aware that the Ministry of the Interior is not ideal in a community where more than three hundred thousand people face different challenges each day. Not enough, I'm really reacting to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u42	Let me finish the speech. Well, please. It's a machine that works for us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u43	Thank you. I know. Thank you. I really react to every publication in the press, on television, which appears, including on the Internet. We've created, updated the Security Service, we're simply handing it over for prevention, not as a punitive body, to track what the Ministry of the Interior officials are doing. I say this for the radio audience, for our citizens. I know we're not perfect, but we're trying to act within the law. And it takes time to bring the ministry to an ideal level. So that's why today's situation will be particularly offensive, and we've sent it to the President and the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u44	Thank you. Have a seat, please. And the offer, Vasil Petrovich. You were talking here about a politician who said there was no attempt on him, and in yesterday's paper he said that he knew exactly how, well, I understand that people go to meetings and watch him while he's still seeing him, that's what it's all about. We need to check that it's information, maybe he's got some extra information on that. There was an offer to exchange ideas. I have this kind of reasoning and request to you, and tomorrow we will definitely listen to the representative of the U.S.A. and the prosecutor's office, and we will definitely listen to them and remind them of some of the rules of the Constitution, because there is no doubt that, for some reason, they do not seem to be present today. And then we exchange thoughts and for that reason, and now I'd like your support on this question. When an offer is made to the Security Service, please provide information on the subject for which you are responsible. It turns out you can't make that kind of information, even though the head of the service is appointed to Parliament and it's not even a basic, not a basic argument. And when the phone calls are made available, here they go in the first place, and the D.A. can't explain in a completely established way how this was done for specific people here. When the Central Electoral Commission is surrounded by computer employees of the BSS, each member of the CTC is monitored, when he comes, where he goes, who he's been meeting, who he's been seeing, and immediately the information is dropped, the question arises: Is it the gendarmerie or the Security Service? And where does the government money that comes from the budget go from taxes that people pay? I think it would be a good idea if we entrusted our House of Auditors to the Supreme Council to check the use of the budget for the Security Service. So I would like your support in this regard. I ask the Court of Auditors to verify the use of the budget of the Security Service for the purposes laid down in the law on the functioning of the Security Service. Please vote for this proposal. [[11:13:58]] For 246 Decision taken. And I want to remind you of another circumstance that needs to be taken into account. In accordance with the law, performing duties in any service, department, can perform them for two months, no more. We have an order for the head of the Security Service to be appointed by the Supreme Council at the suggestion of the President. I'm going to write a letter, with your consent, to the President insisting that he submits a nomination that will pass through the session room and be assigned to this office, because it is unacceptable to violate the law in this way. I'm asking you, let's talk about tomorrow, because now we don't have the opportunity to come up with any other questions. Now we're looking at the question, registration number 2451 -- the draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on State architecture control and promoting investment in construction, procedure. [[second reading]] Bertash Vasil Mikhailovich reports. I'm reminding all the deputies again, I'd like your attention. At 12.30, the meeting of the Coordination Council will be extended to the Head of the Supreme Council for changes to the Constitution, particularly or mainly to the part of local self-government. More than 200 representatives of local councils will come from various regions of Ukraine, and I would like you to participate and be in the material, because their speeches, and your comments will be taken into account in the final adoption of this document. Please, Vasil Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u45	Dear Alexander Alexander, my fellows! Your attention is drawn to the second reading of the bill to amend some Ukrainian legislation on State architectural control and promotion of investment in construction. The bill was discussed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 22, 2007, and adopted by 292 votes in the first reading. In preparation for the second reading of the bill, 49 comments and suggestions were received from law - abiding entities, 11 of which were taken into account in whole, in part, or in editorial terms. The bill concluded: the Committee on Finance and Banking, the Committee on Environmental Policy, the Environment and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster and the Committee on European Integration. Of all the comments and suggestions, there are only two. This is a remark on the implementation of the rules on the maintenance of Statebudsman inspections at the expense of the client by counting them into a special state budget account. [[builders]] But the question of participating in the project documentation analysis for the construction of the relevant units of the organization of co-executors of the integrated state expertise. On the first question. As a result of the Bill's consideration of the faction, it was possible to achieve a compromise on how to maintain architectural control. During the period of establishment of the single vertical structure of the organs of the DR, the real human and material security requirements are agreed to leave the standard of maintaining inspection at the expense of the contracting authorities, as provided for by the bill. Further financing of the inspection will be carried out at the expense of the State Budget, as provided for by the Law on the Financing of Authorities. With regard to the issue of expertise, the basic idea that was set out in the bill is to carry out an expert study of project documentation for building on the basis of the organizational unity of one specialized state expert organization - no objection has been raised and supported by all. Controversies regarding the participation of relevant departments in the organization of co-executors of comprehensive state expertise and a number of other issues are addressed by the working group from ministries. Compromising edition of the second paragraph and article 15 of the Ukrainian Act on Institutional Activity, which sets up all interested parties. Regarding the comments of the General Legal Department. As far as licensing is concerned. The committee disagrees that existing building laws do not contain regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u46	Thank you. You've used the time to report. And for the second reading procedure, I'm going to go to the authors of the comments and suggestions that we have in the draft, and we're going to have a total of 49 amendments. They are largely supported, editorially including, but many have been rejected. Which of the authors of the rejected amendments insists on a word, on a basis? Yuri Mikhailovich, please. Mikolaiovich. Voropeyes. The amendment, call the amendment number and make your proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u47	There is an amendment to the sixth and seventh bills. Its authors, Dustenko and Gorbal. I also support these amendments. They relate to the amendment to article 10 with regard to the introduction of a rule such as the content of inspections of State architectural building control is carried out at the expense of the client, the contractor in order and size set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I also believe, like the authors of these amendments, that this is inappropriate and wrong when the public authority is held by individuals. Thank you. And I would like to vote on this amendment and insist on it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u48	Vasil Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u49	Dear colleagues, that's the amendment. We found a compromise solution there, because in fact today the state budget funds are usually small costs, that's 0.1-0.3 percent of the total cost of construction, if the customer is funding a project or something, and so today there are units in the capital building administration that are financed by the buyers, and we found a compromise decision that during the period of creation of such services it would be appropriate to leave this amendment 0.1-0.3 percent and then to leave the Cabinet of Finance in the future with the State Budget. I'm asking you to leave this standard as shown in the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u50	Vasil Mikhailovich, the proposal here by Yuri Voropeyeva was that, in fact, this entry introduces a special tax as if. It's a small, but it's a special tax. Then it is necessary to make changes that are in line with the Tax Law, or otherwise to act, but it is so hidden that it is not possible to generate funds for the maintenance of the public service. That's true, but still your argument is. So I'm putting to the vote Amendment 6, 7, which has just been advocated by the MEP in support of this editorial. Please, look. Here comes the vote. [[11:22:29]] For 242 Correction coming through, 242. So that's what they are. Would you mind? None. Then, taking into account the two amendments that we have voted on, I put the law as a whole as a document, as a law that is adopted by the Supreme Council as a whole. Registration number, I remind you again, 2451. There's a vote coming. [[11:23:06]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. In your list of issues that are now under consideration, two questions are included in the agenda and the decision - making process. I'm asking you to support this proposal. It's about Bills 3312 and 3311. I'm betting on voting the question of including them in the agenda. [[11:23:50]] For 251 That is the decision to make. The first project is registration number 3312 - draft of the Act amending and supplementing the Ukrainian Law on the National Council of Ukraine on Television and Broadcasting. [[on the order in which members of the National Council are terminated]] This is a project by Olena Bondarenko. Please, she'll report. Including she's the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information, and the author of the project, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u51	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! I would like to say that this bill has several objectives: it is primarily intended to eliminate the non-compliance with article 85 of the Constitution with articles eight and 16 of the National Council for Television and Radio. This is the first moment. Second moment. We would like this bill to bring back to the Supreme Council the human resources law in Nacsov by its fourth parliamentary decision, without the President's decision, which was the last one adopted last year, rather than in fact Parliament being deprived of the right to withdraw its quarter without the President's permission. And the third point is, of course, to prevent the threat of usurping decisions within the national council by the President's Secretariat. There is no secret to anyone that the national council on television and radio broadcasting, in fact, of 8 votes, 6 is controlled by the Secretariat of the President and the godfather of our Viktor Andreević, Peter Alexeevich Porosenko. The fact that this body is too politicized suggests even the following fact that you and I last week passed a decree on an interim commission of inquiry to review the activities of the National Council. And what do we see? We see the comments of the Chairman of this body in newspapers and magazines, where he is absolutely mocking and mocking at the fact that such a commission is illegal and that he wanted to sneeze at our announced moratorium on television checks during the work of this interim commission of inquiry. This is said by the person who is delegated to Nacsov on the quota of Parliament. What's he talking about? That, in fact, Parliament is now unable even to control the four persons whom it has delegated to that body. I therefore ask for the support of this bill, which eliminates the non-compliance of the relevant law with the Constitution, namely article 85, which gives the right to both appoint and remove its representatives from these posts to Parliament. And I think in this case, we're going to go to a transparent, objective, normal, effective body that should not punish, but control our national radio spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u52	The question is to the reporter? None. Well, you've read this document. He was discussed on the committee. Have a seat, please. Who wants to comment on this? Sign up, sign up. Well, I know the crowd's in a hurry. Please. Individually, who else wants to sign up? Landik has a word from the Party of Regions, please. Let's get out of here. Please. Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u53	I would like to support Bondarenko and give another example that in replacing the vacancies of representatives of the National Council for Television and Radio in the fields, a purely political, not professional, but political. The vacancy of the representative of the Nacseut in the Lugansk region, who had retired, was virtually days, and the representative of the district administration was represented by the Chief of Information, and was not voted for by any member of the Nacsvet. Even more professionally, one of the directors of the television company was not offered either. There was a woman, I'm sure, who doesn't even know how to turn on the TV, but very well suited to the orange movement in the Lugansk region. And if we do it on that principle, build the entire National Council, we'll go a long way. Why we are not given anywhere, especially in the eastern regions, are not counted, are not presented with a license, we know that. We know that on the last day before the elections, almost 80 per cent of all the licences that had been issued earlier in the year were issued. Therefore, Nacsov is fully politicized, and we have something to deal with, and Bondarenko's proposal is on time, perhaps even late. But we have to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u54	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u55	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! Our faction supports this bill because the bill proposes to develop the provisions set out in article 85, paragraph 20, and article 106, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine, to regulate by law the order of the early termination of the powers of members of the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio broadcasting in the event of their mistrust as a result of the consideration of the report. In our opinion, the reporter, our colleague Bondarenko, argued that it was necessary to adopt such a law. So I don't think it's necessary to discuss this, but it's worth voting for the first reading of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u56	Thank you. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u57	Thank you. You know, honourable colleagues, which I think we need today, although we have an MP and a young woman, our colleague, Elena Anatoliyevna Bondarenko, but at the fourth call, we were told repeatedly that information control in Ukraine, especially on the TV channels, we had seen that monopolies such as Poroshenko and other national MPs, politicians. And now that we've actually seen that virtually without exception most TV channels are knocking at one door, and such as a "5 channel" virtually every Saturday, every Sunday, you can say that your programs and actions, actions, individual correspondents and journalists provoke society through the field. They provoke lies with their information, anxiety, and so forth. And this is when we even look at the tapes that, whether you're "for" the election or you're "for" -- practically only for President Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka's support is played in favour of "5 channel". We understand today, yes, and not just us, but the common people in Ukraine today understand whose channel it is and whose channel it executes, whose order it executes. He's changed a few weeks before. As the authorities deceive you as they lie, so on and so forth. What's that? So far, it has not been possible to understand that these real provokers are going through “5 channels”. We have seen that this channel works, not for peace, but for stability in Ukraine. That's why it seems to me today that we cannot today accuse the deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, our colleague, Helen Anatoliyevna, but the previous ones are practically entitled to blame today for the members of this committee because this committee has allowed such a calculation in this matter. So today, I think there's nothing to call on our national MPs, but today, Alexander Alexandrovich, we have to vote in favour of this decree, for this bill and put an immediate end to this nonsense and violation of the laws and the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u58	Thank you. Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u59	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I also took the floor to support the bill. I believe that the draft law on amendments and additions to the Ukrainian Law on the National Council for Television and Radio Broadcasting addresses an important problem that has been a kind of black spot in the law for years on the order of termination of the powers of members of the National Council on TV and radio. It turns out that the high-ranking positions in the media space and the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the President of Ukraine were being subjugated, and the mechanism for the order of termination of powers was not actually in existence. And this was a significant contradiction to the functioning Constitution of Ukraine. The proposed project therefore provides an approach, enabling the full implementation of the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the official powers of the President of Ukraine with regard to the discharge of the members of the National Council appointed by them. But it creates conditions for a more responsible and effective functioning of this body. As rightly stated in this bill, the author of these clauses, if he does not find the support of most, will finally establish the constitutionally defined balance between the influences of deterrence, the balance between Parliament and the President with regard to the monitoring of the work of the National Council on Television and Broadcasting. And I think that the release of a part of the members of the National Council, whoever it is, or whether it's the Presidential or Parliamentary Council, is not appropriate that, if you're going to be free, or if you're going to be responsible, you have to go to the entire body of the National Council, hearing a full report earlier, after which you've given them an assessment. On the basis of what is said, I believe that this bill needs to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u60	Thank you. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u61	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! A bill submitted by national deputy Olena Bondarenko on the National Council of Ukraine on television and radio communication on the order of termination of the powers of members of the National Council is proposed to develop the provisions set out in article 85, paragraph 20, and article 106, paragraph 13, of the Constitution of Ukraine legislatively regulate the order of early termination of the powers of members of the National Council of Ukraine on the issue of television and radio broadcasting in the event of its mistrust as a result of the review of the report. The approach proposed in the bill allows for the implementation of the constitutional powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with regard to the discharge of the positions assigned to them by the members of the Nacrada and creates conditions for a more responsible and effective functioning of the body. I propose to adopt the bill of the People's MP, Elena Bondarenko, in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u62	Since there were no other proposals, I put this project to the vote for adoption as the basis for the first reading. Registration number 3312. Please. [[11:37:47]] For 254 Decision taken. Next question is 3311, registration number. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities. [[on the procedure for the appointment of State social assistance]] The National Deputy of Ukraine, Vasiliev Aleksandar Andriyovich, author of the bill, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u63	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! This bill deals with amendments to the Ukrainian Act on State social assistance for disabled persons with disabilities and children with disabilities. The purpose of the bill is to improve the procedure for seeking State aid. In particular, regarding the free extradition of one of the non-working parents, adoptive parent or guardian who is actually inspecting the disabled child. Reports that they are not working on the basis of requests from labour and social protection authorities. The need for these changes is that on the ground, there is a need to deal with the practice of seeking payment from those seeking such a certificate. Thus, the State submits social assistance to persons in charge of children with disabilities, on the one hand, and additional payments are made. It is on this bill that it is proposed that further attention be given to the fact that the certificate is issued free of charge. This may reduce the cost of underprivileged citizens in the formulation of this type of social assistance and thus slightly improve their material situation. Therefore, honourable colleagues, I ask you to support this bill on first reading and to adopt it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u64	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. We have a committee from Alexei Vasilovich Radziewski, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u65	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Pensioners of Veterans and Disabled Persons considered this bill amending the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance to Disabled Persons and Children. In principle, it is a matter of improving the order of reference to the relevant public authorities for documents or other documents when dealing with matters. This bill aims to improve this order of action for the assignment of state social assistance, particularly with regard to the free provision by one of the unemployed parents, the adoptive parent, the caregiver or the caregiver who is actually caring for the disabled child, of evidence that they are not working on the basis of labour and social protection requests. The Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council considers it appropriate to adopt a bill as a basis. A similar conclusion was reached by the Committee on Legal Policy. On the basis of this, the committee proposes to adopt the bill in the first reading as a basis. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u66	No questions to the reporter? Please, have a seat. What kind of reasoning will the deputies have? Yes. Peter Stepanovich will speak up, I give him my word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u67	Thank you. The Communist faction. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues! The bill is quite clear. He's socially oriented, and this proposal, which is made by the distinguished National Deputy Vasiliev, is worthy of support, and on behalf of the Committee, I would like, including, to thank the author for this bill. Moreover, I personally had doubts as to whether it should be accepted only in the first reading, perhaps even in general. But I've consulted with representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy today, and they're offering to accept it only in the first reading, because there are some details here that really need to be worked out, and I agree on behalf of the committee. But I want to take this opportunity to answer the citizens of Ukraine and my colleagues who raised some other questions yesterday. And the point is that you and I voted for the change to the Ukrainian State Budget for 2007. And some of my colleagues asked me in the speeches yesterday, in the so-called 'discipline', whether we can implement this norm, these changes to the 'On the State Budget for Ukraine 2007' Act, I'm very pleased today, thanks to the bodies of the Pension Fund, for having conducted a very tight recalculation of these pensions and with some information, without moving it to June, but with a separate message to the bodies of the Pension Fund in place. And today I just want to let you know that 316 thousand participants in the fighting and the disabled in the May war have already been recalculated, they have received a pension allowance of between 177 and 300 dollars and an absolute majority of these people have already received this May supplement in line with the decisions made by the Supreme Council because of the changes made to the State Budget. At the same time, I would like to stress once again the eloquent expression used by the President of Ukraine “not in word but in deed” in this way, in this way the Supreme Council of Ukraine took off the hat and worshiped the participants in the war for the enormous feat they had made. This was done at a time when the so - called, united opposition, sat in political bushes, turned off the robins, wept about the unfortunate veterans, all of which was done by the coalition, the Supreme Council, and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u68	Thank you. Anyone else want to say something? Ivan Mikolaiovich and Sergey Redfoot. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u69	National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. I would like everyone to understand that by this law we are correcting the Ukrainian Act on State Social Assistance for Persons with Disabilities and Children with Disabilities. The Committee on Social Policy and Work at its meeting considered the bill and unanimously supported it. The bill proposes to simplify the procedure a little bit and, above all, to withdraw the payment for receiving help from one of the non-working parents, adoptive parents, caregiver or caregiver who is actually caring for a disabled child under 18 years of age for not working for the appointment of an allowance for the care of such a child. I would like to support my colleague Peter Stepanovich, who is here, not by word, but by deed, a small step, but in order to simplify the procedure and facilitate the receipt of the necessary help for the whole pension process. Therefore, on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, I call for this bill to be voted in favour of in the first reading, because there are some doubts about the budget part or budget component of this bill, and there are other observations, and in the process of preparing for the second reading, we will be able to finally correct it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u70	Sergey Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u71	Thank you. Red Cross, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan. I would also like to express my words of support for this bill. And first of all, it's about that stuffed ostrich to our citizens when they asked him for, you know, a background check, and you need a background check. And now this bureaucratic mechanism is being greatly simplified and, in fact, this decision will make it easier for people to do exactly that job, well, sacred work -- raise children with limited opportunities. So please support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u72	Paul Gnatovich, can we vote now or not? Take the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u73	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I would like to draw the attention of the people of Ukraine today to the fact that the Parliamentary Coalition and the Government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic, have not been a word, but rather a part of Ukraine's 2007 budget, had it not been for the so-called opposition and, unfortunately, the President's Administration to prevent the state budget from being filled by its actions, especially last month, by several presidential decrees. After all, the state budget allows the coalition and government today to step by step improve the standard of living of the Ukrainian people. This was confirmed by previous laws, changes and additions to the budget, where wages and pensions were largely raised, and in several stages there would be an increase in salaries and pensions this year, and by May 9, Parliament also voted a great decision to improve the lives of people with disabilities and people with disabilities. And today, draft Law 3311 also says that if we support it today, it will not simply change some order of appeals for appointment. I'm sure that this order, when we put it in place, is also going to increase the allocations to these categories of people with disabilities that are going to be significantly improved. And that's why I want to address the people of Ukraine again and again. We have repeatedly asked that today's Parliament is working every day, every day, and it is looking for an opportunity to improve the lives of the people of Ukraine. And today, individual populace want to provoke further unrest in Ukraine by various means. So it's time, Alexandre Alexandrovich, to give us here, from Parliament, a request to the people to condemn such provocative men and officials who sit in the President's Office and lie to society.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u74	Thank God the microphone's off, or you'd say they're lying to society and who's lying. No, no, okay, thanks. Everyone was talking about who wanted to say something. I'm asking you to support this bill. Registration number 3311 for first reading. Please. The deputy minister is here, we have a meeting, and he supports it, too. Please. [[11:51:38]] For 247 Decision taken. There's a statement from two factions about a break for half an hour or a performance. Well, I think it's best if he speaks from the faction of Olena Bondarenko. Please. For a brief statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, I have just learned to read: [[We've been brought a source.]] The judge of the Kirov District Court of Donetsk, Ivan Podolánchuk, who decided to suspend the President’s decrees on the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court on Wednesday, received a DTP. That's what the head said. Anatoly Levada. He said that on Wednesday, while the judge was on his way to work, he was cut down by a numberless car, resulting in an accident for the judge’s car. The judge is alive. Podolánchuk is now undergoing medical examinations at 24 hospitals for injuries sustained in traffic accidents. According to Levada, he called Podolánchuk. He complains of pain in the head and chest. There's an investigation team working at the scene. I would like to recall that this is the judge who has decided that it is illegal to withdraw from Susana Stanik's judicial posts and Valery of Wheat on behalf of our colleague Alexander Zac. On the scene is our colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko, who made a special flight to Donetsk this morning to deal with yesterday's situation, when the telephone and the President of the Kirov District Court and the judge who took the action were threatened by Igor Pukshin from the President's Secretariat by telephone. In the evening, you know, you heard that Yushchenko was going to fire those judges. We appreciate these actions, I'm not afraid of that word as bandits. In this case, the President's Secretariat is becoming a logo of bandits who, I am sure, will be responsible for their criminal offences and acts. And I would like to say that our colleague Yuri Miroshnichenko also has new details of the accident. I think we'll all learn from the media soon enough, but what happened there. But at this point, there are three versions. First. It's an accident. Second. It's a deliberate attempt. And third. It's an opportunity to intimidate, intimidate, this person who's the judge. I would also like to recall that the recent intimidation, threats and clearances in the courts have become a mere method that the Secretariat of the President has been implementing day and night. You'll remember what happened around the Pecher district court. You'll remember what happened around the Feodosian Court. You will finally remember the most resonant dismissal of Susanna Stanick and Valerie Wheat. I think that, in any case, we cannot leave it unpunished and perhaps we will take action against law enforcement authorities to deal with the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-16-m0.u76	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Well, it doesn't need comments unless we're careful with the comments about where the bandits are, because it requires an appropriate correction, or a determination of the circumstances. On the other hand, I think there's a lot of talk about threats made by specific officials from the President's Secretariat. I think that there will be an opportunity to find out both the essence of what sounds and the responsibility of people who use such methods, for in a state that will not be allowed to do so is simply unacceptable, especially when it comes to models or morals, and it requires compliance with the law, in which there are many sins per soul. And let them look at their activities yesterday and today, especially in the bar, and so on, how did the activities that were listed, which were numbered? Were there tenders or no tenders? And a lot of other things, and then you have to talk about morality and all the other things. I think this will be an opportunity to find out these details to law enforcement, so that no one will be tempted from the position of his chair to give an assessment to everyone. We must be responsible for our actions, above all, and be guided by the law, to be guided by the Constitution. In order to avoid such arbitrary treatments of the rules of the Constitution, it needs to be clarified in areas where practice shows that such clarifications need to be made. In half an hour, an expanded advisory board will begin at the Head of the Supreme Council with the participation of a large group of heads of local self-government, and I would ask you to take part in this discussion, and it will be essentially a presentation of the draft changes to the Constitution. Thank you. Half an hour later, the meeting is closed. Tomorrow's 10 o'clock. At 3 p.m., Parliamentary hearings.
