ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, other participants in meetings, journalists, TV sets, and radio audiences! Today, June 15, Parliament is preparing for the opening session. Please insert your cards, sit down. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:39]] There are 270 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session is open. Let's welcome the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Saint Dmitry Volodymyrovich. We wish him health first, success, and all good. [[Applause]] I'm at a time when I've been asked to make inquiries, proposals, and I'm going to have John Bondarczuk's request to the Minister of Defense regarding the Ministry of Defence's intention to transfer the property of an out-of-state formed military unit to the municipal property of the community of the village of Dzigivuk of the Yampli district of Vinicki district and his request to the Minister of Transport and his request for refusal to hold meetings of the Minister of Transport and Public Relations of the town of Kozyatin Vinicki district. Apparently, there's some kind of coincidence, because the minister wants to go to a meeting like this. And we have half an hour for you to express your thoughts on the issues that concern you and society today. Please log in from factions. And in an individual order, please, anyone who wants to. It's Barranian written by the faction, I understand? Savocin? Please, Gennady Anatolyovich. From the faction of socialists. He's got a representative of the Klashnikov Region Party on record.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u2	Honourable Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, this week the President of Ukraine on the eve of the gala, at the house with the chimers, decided to make his tract known as the New Realism Policy. With regard to the new reality, the audience in the three hundred media must have realized the only thing: Victor Yushchenko launched an electoral campaign of his so - called democratic forces. He was so concerned about them that he was in the way of bribing such an unloving High Council of the Fifth Call. The Dembley Anecdote has changed into even greater insults by national deputies than by the coalition, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Regrettably, he could not have invented anything but his associates from the Secretariat. This must be part of the political new reality. It's the fate of political narcissists who allow themselves all to appreciate, to agree, or to show off, to give their recommendations to everyone, including courts of different jurisdiction, the CFC. Although it is not surprising who pays, or appoints, he orders music. And he says he will ensure fair and transparent elections. Asked who? Answer: For opposition. She's already doing some crazy preparatory work today. The administrations assigned to it shall throw the results of the vote at the duty stations, specifying the percentage. And the President says, "Security." His words and deeds are already known to the whole of Ukraine, so he does not have to promise people that he simply does not agree to do, for his assurances are worthless, not for everyone. Another thesis from the presidential arsenal about betrayal. What he keeps saying, like his “loving friends”. Not long ago, news media reports of new friends of Julia Tymoshenko in the individuals of Lords Beresowski, Leville, and Hydamaka, the citizens of Israel. This may not be true, but in order to address the doubts of the Court's website, it must be the subject of consideration by the law enforcement authorities and the LRA, because it is a betrayal of Ukraine's interests by the organisers of the political crisis for the achievement of their own ambitions. In carrying out some of the management’s arrangements, the new assistants do not scrutinize the claim of the breakup of Ukraine in order to achieve the victory of the so - called democratic forces. It's really a betrayal. Here's all the politics of the new reality offered by the Democrats in charge of their leader. Today they perform the role of the offended, they have not been released, they have not been issued the documents, they are sweating, taking their “work” out of the cabinets. [[in quotes]] And at the same time, with such ease, under certain conditions, Lady Yu, in front of the media, claims her statement to the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. But there is also a question. The members of the coalition listened to the statements of the opposition twins, and in no way did they hear that they, the opposition, formed their parliamentary powers. The thesis of “gives power” is clearly nothing to do here. And here they want to be smarter than the pope of Rome. And with regard to the ease of Tymoshenko, it can be assumed that with such friends as are mentioned on the web site, it is not only easy to say good-bye to the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call that we can easily get on the board of the Sixth Call, although it is not political corruption. [[in quotes]] And finally. About cleansing and new faces in the next Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to ask, did the “loving friends” perform a plastic surgery? These are your "alpha" and "omega" and "fata morgana", Mr. President. Perhaps not soon enough, and at a time when you will be reminded of your chair, even though you have no reason, but only yours.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u3	The word is Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u4	I'm asking you to tell Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u5	Please give Chetchev the word. Instead of Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u6	Respectable citizens, respected colleagues. The MP faction of the Party of Regions in which it draws attention to the dangerous processes that are taking place today in our country. The so - called opposition, associated with the heads of state’s office, continues to carry out a plan of the ultimate goal of taking possession of no limited or unsupervised authority in our country. By fighting for this power with more than half of Ukraine, politicians are not willing to stop at anything and to sacrifice even the civil peace and integrity of the state they consider to be their private property. Paradoxically, but a fact. It was the orange politicians who came to power, who gave the people a lot of talk about national interests, who did the most to get Ukraine to the edge of the deepest chasm in all history. By its extremely irresponsible actions, the President’s camp has destroyed society’s trust in most institutions of state. For example, is there an effective Constitutional Court in Ukraine today? No, it was destroyed by political pressure from the Secretary of the President and by destructive opposition. Similarly, they want to do with the Central Electoral Commission whose activities are now blocked by the Bank’s political order. While in the position of “what will you be excused?” regarding the wishes of the Presidential Office, the new head of the CTC, Vladimir Shapoval, refuses to appoint the date and time of the meeting of the commission. Instead, it adopts decisions unilaterally and not collectively, as required by the legislation, in violation of the oath and the Law on "CTC". The authoritarian methods of leading Shapowala call into question his ability to organize the work of the commission and to conduct the electoral process normally if the election takes place. What is more, there are disturbing signals that indicate that power structures are involved in the pressure on the CSA. Yesterday, a member of the board, Alexander Schelest, reported monitoring the members of the Centre’s campaign team. According to him, the Mazda-3 silver car with the AA-4283AA holder was near the 9th approach of the CBC yesterday. A member of the commission tried to find out whose car it was. Schelest was able to obtain information in the presence of coworkers of the Department of Public Protection. In the car were the employees of the U.S.S.A. In doing so, the presence of a car with private numbers on a closed, well - known territory of the CLTC was in line with the leadership of the Central Electoral Commission. The Party of the Region's MP is concerned that the Ukrainian Security Service is monitoring the premises of the CTC by the employees and members of the commission. The faction requires an official response from the executive responsibility of the Head of the Board of Trustees to such questions as whether the staff actually carry out the task of collecting information regarding the members of the CLTC. If so, with regard to whom is the gathering of information taking place, what information is it that interests the ministry, and finally, who, and for what purpose, has this assignment been placed before the U.S.S.S.? Please consider this application to be an official request by the MP to the acting head of the BSS. It has to be said that as a result of the actions, the President's blockade of the new composition of the CLTC has not only been threatened by the completion of the Supreme Council by the people's deputies included in the electoral lists instead of those who committed voluntary forced political suicide. Moreover, there is a real possibility that the process of organising the early elections will be disrupted. The question is, what does the President and those who pushed him into the dissolution of a legitimate parliament really need: honest elections, or the destruction of the situation in the country? Because a fully functioning Central Election is an important barrier in the way of falsifying national will. Who wants to remove this barrier? A party of regions demands a clear answer to a very important question for society. Is it the Secretariat of the President whose head, according to the media, will lead the electoral headquarters of our country, to falsify the results of the vote in favour of the presidential forces? And whether or not it should be considered to be the first call to apply the administrative resource in the elections. The answers to the questions that we have to ask are very important for the further development of Ukraine as a democratic state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u7	Thank you. Matthew’s word is followed by Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u8	Thank you, Alexander Alexander, Matthew, the faction of Communists. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, each day increasingly affirms that the President, his aggressive environment, his “loving friends” continue to exacerbate the situation in a consistent manner that would lead to the necessary level of artificially created, provoked political conflict. In his desire to make a rematch, Yushchenko took the lead. In the absence of any grounds provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine, he issues his decrees on the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers. According to law scientists, all these decrees can be boldly referred to the unprecedented productions of legal nihilism, the abuse of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine. In fact, the work of the Constitutional Court is being blocked today, and unheard of pressure continues on the judiciary as a whole. The work of the Central Electoral Commission is virtually now being broken down and the members of the commission are therefore even forced to address the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, Shapwal, with open appeal in connection with the blocking of the meetings of the commission. That's what we've been through. The “screw of hands” continues, brutal pressure is being exerted on the national MPs of our Ukrainians and beatniks to form their parliamentary powers. Yes, the three agreements were a compromise, and this compromise is very expensive now for Ukraine. In fact, there has already been a coup d'état, a brutal abuse of democracy, the rule of law, parliamentaryism. And I think that all of us today see a situation that is extremely dangerous as a result, because these precedents are unthinkable in a normal democratic country. Today, a temporary special commission to study the state of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in its normative and law enforcement activities has considered at its meeting the materials provided for analysis and I would say such terrible conclusions. Think of it: Your Honorary colleagues, themselves, the situation of February 3 to June 1 this year by the President of Ukraine, the guarantor of the Constitution, has appointed 24 executive responsibilities for the heads of local government administrations, over 40 acts of the President not submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the conduct of the counter-signature procedure, and all this practice continues, the disregard of the Constitution and the law continues. I think we all see that in fact there has been a coup d'état, a brutal abuse of democracy, the rule of law, parliamentaryism. I think we should say that again and again today. So today's agenda is faced with the challenge of dealing with the overwhelming issue of importance, the healthy forces of society, not allowing the rematch of the national, pro-American, pro-Nation forces to deepen the sharp division of Ukraine. So the faction of Communists today appeals to all the patriotic forces of Ukraine, and we need to do everything we can to get together and not let the orange regents finish the coup d'état. This is our duty with you, national deputies, and all honest citizens, our duty to the state, our duty to Ukraine’s future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u9	Thank you. Zibenko has the word, Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u10	A faction of Communists, reverends, Cibenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! As I come out of this high-level public court, I want to raise a problem that the vast majority of voters don't know about. More specifically, he does not know the true state of affairs. This is a piaracy called “Let the Supreme Council of the Opponents’ Deputies” organized by the orange leaders along with the media loyal to them. They made a noise: “Let us go!” I want to say in reply, “With God, Parasus! ” But now I'm talking about a slightly different, so to speak, hidden, shadowy side of a problem that neither the orange leaders nor the media under their control are willing to talk about. And now you'll understand why. On the morning of yesterday, I simply have no more recent data, there have been 80 petitions by the National Deputies for the withdrawal of the faction and correspondingly there are 80 employment books. How many did they take? And they were taken away by seventeen of the eighties! They are the ones who cannot escape parliamentary slavery. They're the ones they won't let go. They're the ones who give autographs everywhere. Now let me make a few assumptions about why this is happening. Reason one. The vast majority of these people simply do not want to go to any early elections. The second assumption. They basically don't believe each other. They are constantly afraid of their leaders. Third. They do not take work books from personnel management to make use of the fact that they do not see the facts on their hands as a reason to appeal to the court for renewal in the status of Ukrainian national deputy. This is a very beautiful side of the medal, and orange leaders, and most of the media are silent, thus disinformationing Ukrainian citizens. Here's your morals, here's your right, here's your clean hands with your dirty feet. So, dear fellows, I think it's the development of events, and history will put everything in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u11	The Volga is written down. Please, Vasil Alexanderovich Volga, follow by Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u12	Vasil Volga, Socialist Party of Ukraine, All-Ukrainian Public Organisation “Citizen Control”. Respectable national MPs, respected citizens. I want to talk about such things today as health and the work of the Ministry of Health. Well, as long as you and I have this situation while Yushchenko destroys the state, Timoshenko can't figure out the right choices or the wrong ones. Lucenko's trying to fool them all. Kirilenko, like Bumbaresh, fights Lucenko. As long as this is happening in the country, people still live, people get sick, but what happens to you in the Ministry of Health. First of all, I want to speak to the minister, Yuri Alexandrovich Hayday. And that's what's happening right now. I was forced to begin to understand more than the secretary of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption, some of the facts that we have just come up with. Fact number one. The Cabinet of Ministers funded the Ministry of Health in its entirety as budgeted. 408 million dollars have been funded according to the planned assignment. At the moment, however, the Ministry of Health has not even begun to finance, or even begun, procurement tenders since the half of the financial year. For example, endoprosesses have not even been announced for purchase. There are still some interesting moments. The Ministry's work with companies that win tenders for the supply of medical equipment and medicine to the Ministry is very strange. For example, these purchases have been funded for suppliers for 76.8 million dollars. But in six months, only 6.1 million dollars — less than 10 times — came in. At which point the Ministry now has 332 million dollars. There's still a whole bunch of problems coming down, and I can't count everything for a limited amount of time. And I would like to ask Minister Yuri Alexanderovich, if there are any objective prerequisites, if you think that there really is a problem with solicitation, I think the Minister of Health should not sleep in the day or night without eating until the supply issue is resolved. I've just had to, let's say, take a look inside at the situation in medical institutions. So when there are no basic drugs, Yuri Alexanderovich, you have to do something. It seems to me that if you don't take very concrete steps in a short time to get the ministry to work, then our committee, and the committee of expertise, will take certain decisions and the costs you have, will be used for the assignment, but it may be already without you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u13	Sergey Ribuk, Sergey Mikolayovich, please. Then Baranowski instead of Savosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u14	Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. Yesterday I had to observe how the leaders of the so-called opposition led their associates to surrender their parliamentary mandates, to write statements. Well, if I say so in a peasant family, it's like a calf on a bedside table. It would be funny, no matter how bitter the opposition so called is playing with the trust of the entire Ukrainian people. But I am glad that the mandate was thus buried, buried, along with responsibilities, promises, responsibilities to the people. The opposition, with time, has been terrorizing the Ukrainian people all day long, there will be no bread, the price will rise and so on. Everyone got to the nuts hard, especially the government. There's only one little lady. What was that? I think it was a launch yesterday at a press conference of their dirty, pre-election campaign. But let's think about the very form of giving these scarecrows about prices, about bread. He said it's conspiracy, you hear, conspiracy, it's organized bread breaking, we need to investigate. [[It's all in the paws I read]] They're already writing letters to the U.S.S.A., reading "KGB," the RNB, which is 33 years old, giving orders, instructions to the President to intervene. Honourable opponents, if that's what you'll be called. Do whatever you want, give the President any commission, but don't let him do the bread, because whatever he does doesn't do, he'll ruin it, and there'll be trouble. Let him do something else. But where are the markets, markets, Democrats, opponents, where are your offers, market methods, how do you handle the situation? Where are your governors? And where is everyone in the areas that do this? And now for a brief discussion of the history of the question. Think back to 2003. We were completely washed, all in the country, but the government of Yanukovich came, managed the situation, straightened out and there was no hiking, and bread was found and sown, and the bright wheat was sown, and everything was fine. But he got it out by order, by discipline, by organization. And whoever today is accusing the government of not being there, saying, asking the minister or governor, is the one who wants to be a bailiff. Today, more than ever, we need order, discipline, organization. And the request is not to politicize this question, and the people ask, don't buy too much flour for the time being, because it will grow bitter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u15	Allow the flour to be finished.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u16	One sentence. But if you have already bought, good people, have not believed us there or me as a farmer, then when guests come to you who say that the price of bread is rising and they have made it necessary to buy flour, make them a cow out of that bitter flour. But let's eat all the delicious bread. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u17	Thank you. Baranovsky. Bondarchuk will follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u18	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, I am addressing you today. We have this need, perhaps, to finally hold the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Almost a year ago, there was no substitute for the Head. And I think it's, well, it's a phenomenon that's not good for Parliament. What's more, we don't have half the committees working today, as they should be working, because they're headed by representatives, so opposition parties, and they're not in the hall. And this also today has to do with the quality of the work of the Supreme Council. So there's a correspondingly registered draft of the Supreme Council regulation that we've made. I would ask if you would consider this motion for a decision today and still appoint, select the heads of committees of the appropriate committee, select the deputy head of the Supreme Council, and remove the issue of the inadequacy of preparing documents for the Supreme Council for meetings, so that the committees can work fully. The second question is, why is CBC work being blocked today? Perhaps we all understand that it is being blocked by opposition parties who, according to Yushchenka, were approved by the Supreme Council. The goal here is that by blocking the work of the CLTC today and at the same time by writing statements by opposition MPs about leaving the MPs, they're trying to bring up a situation where they might have 151 applications. After that, 30 days are still blocked by the CTC – and then the President has a constitutional right - parliament ineffective - to hold a fifth or fifth decree on the dissolution of Parliament, respectively, because there is no constitutional requirement. That's understandable today. But the question arises: If our party, or representatives of the CLTC, who are assigned to the coalition, cease to work as representatives of today’s opposition, how are they going to hold elections? There are two answers to this question: either today the opposition forces and the President have given up the early elections, which is what they've talked about so much about, because the CEVC can't conduct them, it won't be effective, that is, elections won't take place, or maybe there are some more court arrangements that some members of the CEVC may be backing the opposition. That's a question I don't have an answer to. I think the MPs who are elected, and they're still on the list of CBCs today, but not working. I think there's a reason I should do this work of the Supreme Council. Because they're all, their documents are checked, the fact that they're elected is that if the MPs that they're working now are out, all they have to do is make an oath. And that's why I think, San Sanic, it would be appropriate to send an invitation today to the deputies who should be on the list. Let them take an oath and get to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u19	The word is John Bondarchuk, followed by Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u20	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear colleagues, Sunday in Ukraine there will be a professional celebration of the most humane profession, Medical Officer's Day. From the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work, I extend my warm greetings to all medical personnel in Ukraine as well as to veterans in the field. Let us love them in every way, optimism, and faith in the better future of national health. Our medics, I'm talking about it without exaggeration and without too much paphos, one of the most qualified in the world. So it turned out that I was able to see for myself. Small in paws is worth paying for the work of people in white robes and in general with proper financing of the needs of the industry, which would allow for the provision of medical facilities with modern medical equipment and high-efficiency medical devices, and ultimately for the full implementation of article 49 of the Constitution of Ukraine. The first steps in this direction have been taken, with significant increases in health care, maintenance, and health care expenditure in the Ukraine’s 2007 budget. And now it's up to the minister, under the direction of this ministry, to make proper use of these funds, as my colleague at the Basil Volga faction spoke of. Including an allocation of 0.6 million dollars for the construction of the surgical corps of the Pyrogova District Hospital on my native Winnitzkin, which was preserved 10 years ago. In line with the changes approved by the Supreme Council to the State Budget and government decisions, the wages of doctors and other medical personnel have increased. By the end of this year, it has to increase by 27 percent. A group of Socialist MPs introduced a bill to Parliament on changes in the pension provision of doctors at state and municipal health institutions, with the aim of comparing them in this respect to civil servants. Thus, the parliamentary coalition and its government, not in words, are actually making their pre-election promises. Ukrainian physicians can be confident that this will continue. At least they can count on the permanent position of socialists on this issue. Once again with the celebration of you, distinguished medical staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u21	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I want to draw your attention to what we now have in our eyes, in the eyes of the entire society, is false, as it is always all they do, falsely, in the pre-election race of the so-called opposition. Once again, we see on the pages of newspapers, in electronic information, lies, cynicism, falsifications, swindling facts. It seems as if the government is conversing with the monopolies and other stupidities by galloping around. Although remember, two more weeks ago here, from this rostrum, I warned you that we have an instructional material on our hands, like lifting, artificially suppressing hysteria, raising prices in places. So I want to go to our voters and remind them of 2005. Because we have, you know, a kind of political nightmare. When a person remembers what was on prom night, first class, I remember who was on the front with whom he was fighting, but he forgot that yesterday, who was still pretending, was bullying our economy. Then, in 2005, the television on the news pages again featured reports of an increase in material well-being, and life not only got worse, but also became more disturbing. Remember, it was in 2005 that a famous anecdote was born, when people asked, is it going to be capitalism, or is it going to be even worse? That's when it was 2005. The fact is that populism paid off to the people in 2005 and would pay for the orange hop company to get back in power, you can't let that happen. I want to remind you, in an effort to please the people of that time, the authorities of Timoshenko forgot the words of the famous philosopher Nikola Makiavelly, who warned the government that he was trying to build on the people's love for a long time, and that's what happened. To the non-professional, dilettarian actions of power, the economy responded both by stagnation and by rising prices and by increasing toning. By 2005, social payments had grown by 80 per cent, which was good for all expenses, but nothing like that, because already in October, Yushchenko will be speaking in Lviv on the form “Ukraine – EU”. The year we started at a growth rate of 6.5 percent, and each month they fell by one and a half and ended up with a minus 1.6 percent. This is what the Ukrainian economy is waiting for if those who are cynically trying to teach us how to live and work today return to power. Last thing I want to say to our President, who has been trying to disguise himself as a sincere Ukrainian for the last few years. There are beautiful words from the Ukrainian retinal archers in the anthem “No time, no time, no time for discord in the home.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u23	Until the MPs start singing revolutionary songs, so let's summarize this discussion briefly, yes. There is a procedure that has to be followed, but every piece of this procedure has to be implemented in accordance with the law and to those, let's say, rules that are defined by the normative documents. Of course, attention is drawn to the fact that many representatives of the two factions are going to publicize their statements under pressure, with a clear reluctance to do so. I can give a lot of examples, but with respect for specific people, I won't do that, who goes into the office of the head of the secretariat first, and then goes into my office and asks that they don't announce his statement. That is not the case. I would like to turn to them so that I can stand behind someone else’s back. Either you are worthy of MPs, representatives of the people, and for your rights, and for the rights of your electorate, fight for yourself, thereby demonstrating to the electorate who you are, or do not expect anyone to stand up for your interests, thus possibly the interests of the electorate. This is not the case, I repeat, and be, at least, be decent in such a situation. Because I want to pay attention to one detail, it doesn't have an imperative mandate. You can imagine, today, an MP, realizing that he's doing something stupid, that he can't do things like this and all, but he's going, he's tilting his head like one creature on a battlefield, because there's someone in front of him who's baiting a fight, and everyone can go after each other, realizing that there's no other way out. I would like us not to compare ourselves with such comparisons, however, to stand up for our own interests and for our constituents, for they too will likely make assessments of who and how they acted in the right situation. And then. We all kind of don't notice, we notice, but I'm looking at the media and the media doesn't sound like that. Why isn't the Central Electoral Commission working? As we can explain to the elector today, this was made in a statement, such as Michael Chechtov, why the election commission is not working. I realize that the chairman of the commission, whether he is the best lawyer in Ukraine or in the world, must do his duty. And if the initiative comes from a part of the Central Electoral Commission and they come to a meeting, most of the Central Electoral Commission, then we have to hold a meeting. I received yesterday's replies from the head of the Central Electoral Commission to a letter from the Supreme Council to send out information on the balance that is on the Central Election Commission regarding the candidates to the deputies and those who are in charge of the factions that are taking the initiative in this regard. It turns out that they have a reserve of more than 300 people, so to speak, candidates for the MPs, but one was a decision to cancel, as it were, the re-establishment of the list from Block Timoshenko and the deputies have charged the case in court, the court has taken a decision to support the deputies or candidates on the list that are on the list, and today this case has been “independent” in the Court of Appeal. In another faction, the Central Election Commission rejected the proposal for rejuvenation, since the Electoral Act is clearly in violation of the rights of all parties belonging to the bloc and not all parties represented there. Clearly, then, the Central Election Commission was unable to make a decision. Then the initiators of the divorce refer to the court, the Pecherski court, I don't know how, but I've made the appropriate decision, it's being charged again by the Central Electoral Commission and again in the Court of Appeal. In other words, legal relations are made on the basis of effective legislation before the issue is settled. Thus today, it can be said that three hundred of the remaining deputies are ready to enter their posts, since their superiors were standing? They are unable to do this work, either unwilling or unable, or they are afraid to do it. Then the question is, are we talking about democracy or not? They created an artificial precedent, on the one hand, to block the work of the Constitutional Court, so that it doesn't work, on the other hand, the Central Electoral Commission, and it says, in the rule of law, we're moving towards democracy. This is very similar to the legal clinic, not to the legal relationship provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. And so on behalf of the Supreme Council, I insist once again, by addressing the Central Electoral Commission, do what you have to do by law, do the law, and don't play tricks on any other political forces who want to play an artificial tragedy for Ukraine, because, here someone has spoken there, they will come to power and they will begin. Nothing will start because the authorities will have their people in charge, and these elections were held in March 2006 and the people made their stand clear. So I would like us not to resort here to different assumptions of a questionable species and work as provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. I had yesterday, I have to say, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, who insisted that I announce at the meeting his statement to the plenary that he would leave the faction of Yulia Timoshenko as a basis for stopping the mandate of the national MP. I seemed to be convincing in that sense, saying that his application to the Supreme Council on this matter to the secretariat he submitted, being in a different status, working in the executive structure of power. And since he has not resolved this issue for 20 days, as provided for in the Constitution, I have, in compliance with the Constitution and the legislation, appealed to the court for the purpose of depriving him of his parliamentary powers as provided for by law. Nevertheless, he insisted very much on declaring that he had been dismissed on this basis. I may have guessed why he insisted on this situation, but no doubt the actions of me as the Head of the Supreme Council were entirely legitimate. I did what was written in the Constitution. However, when he wants to be announced here, I will say yes, consider that his statement has been announced, that he would still like to leave the Supreme Council meeting as a deputy to the Supreme Council. Let the court determine whether the court or the Central Election Commission is responsible for its fate. In the meantime, we have plans for work today. tense, I mean, the questions are complicated, they need to be considered. And the first question to be considered is the draft Act on Supplements to Article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Trade Interchange Transactions in the Field of External Economic Activity. And this question is reported by Muntian Deputy Minister of Economy Valeriy Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u24	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, distinguished present. Article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Free System of Economic Activities establishes that the issue of payment or free of charge, the issuance of a document of a permissive nature, the time-limit for the decision to issue or refuse extradition, the grounds for refusal and announcement of a document of a permissive nature shall be governed solely by the laws of Ukraine. Today, in the field of government regulation of bartering transactions, these issues are regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine regulation of 13.08.1999, No. 1489, on the procedure for issuing a single individual permit to exceed the time limits set for importing goods, performing work and providing services that are imported under barter contracts that do not comply with the Ukrainian Law on Free System in the Field of Economic Activities. A bill developed by the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. The draft law provides for amendments to article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of barter exchange operations in the field of external economic activity. In part, concerning the regulation of free of charge, the granting of a one-time individual permit for trade in barter transactions in the field of external economic activity. The date of the decision to issue it or to refuse it. List of grounds for refusal and cancellation of a document of a permissive nature. The adoption of this bill will allow for the introduction of effective legislation in the field of national regulation of trade-offs in external economic activities, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Act on the Free System of Economic Activities. The adoption of the proposed bill does not require additional costs from government and local budgets. According to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Export Analysis Office, the bill can be based on the first reading. In view of the proposed draft law, which is primarily intended to ensure the enforcement of effective legislation in the field of public regulation of foreign trade transactions, in accordance with the requirements of the law on the free movement of agricultural activities, I ask that you approve, honourable national deputies, the draft of the Act amending article 2 of the Law on the regulation of foreign exchange bartering operations in the field of external economic activity, in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u25	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign in. Please, Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u26	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear reporter, well, first of all, I'd like to talk about today's draft law and make some warnings that we need to be very careful about bartering operations, because you and I know what the role of barter relations was, let's say, in the early 1990s, when they contributed to, let's say, economic destruction? And the second question or question, actually. What do you think, do you think that we are removing today, say a certain violation of the technology of enacting laws? Because if we were to make the same change in two laws at the same time, we would not today go back to the problem of bringing into line with two laws that regulate the same problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u27	Thank you for the specific questions. I'll start with the second answer. So it's about direct regulation or we're not going outside the legal field. The point is that these transactions are regulated today by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, or by regulations. And the adoption of this bill reverses the legal field, because exclusively the laws of Ukraine provide for regulation of these documents of a permissive nature. The first question is the answer. As for barter operations, in fact, if you take previous periods of economic, external economic activity in barter operations, they have done economic security no doubt. Why? Because there were surrogates. But barter operations even exist in an industrialized country like the United States. As far as this bill is concerned directly by the government, in addition to putting all these relations into the legal field, there is a specificization to minimize these challenges and risks, i.e. a whole chapter is introduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u28	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u29	The reason for refusing to grant a permit is a specification, which may be determined by the marking and so forth. I mean, the bill is clear that in the second reading, we're going to take your comments into account, but I want to say that there's a specification, a definition and a detail of why you should refuse, and there's a kind of understandable and categorical apparatus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u30	Thank you. No further questions. Have a seat, please. From the committee, Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plitników Aleksy Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Economic Policy at its meeting on 13 June reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Supplements to Article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the Regulation of Exchange of Bartering Transactions in the Field of External Economic Activities, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The purpose of the bill is to introduce the Law on the Regulation of Exchange of Bartering Transactions in the Field of External Economic Activity, in accordance with the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on Free Trade and Economic Activities. Taking into account that the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Expert and Analytical Authority has reached a positive conclusion, taking into account the order of the Committee's meeting, the Committee decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council the passed law of the Cabinet of Ministers to Ukraine to adopt in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u32	Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Factions please sign up. Individually. Yes, there is also no desire to share. That is why I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Supplementing the Article of the Second Law of Ukraine on the Regulation of Exchange of Barter Transactions in the Field of External Economic Activity. Registration number 3631. The author of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[10:56:47]] For 254 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we will continue our consideration of the issues of the agenda, but we will now carry out a mission that, as it were, we should do daily on the basis of what is being claimed to be the permanent composition of the National Deputies. Because, honourable colleagues, they do, well, periodically, so not everyone will be in alphabetical order, but just as they came. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Gus Stepan Karlovich, a member of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 19, 2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, National Deputy of Ukraine Židenka Igor Grigorovič, member of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. A statement. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko, by which I was elected National Deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as Ukrainian National Deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18th. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Zozuli Ruslan Petrovic, member of the MP's Timoshenko Block. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the Block of Timoshenko faction. In connection with the exit from the MP's block of Yulia Timoshenko, which listed me as elected National Deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as National Deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Kemenyash Alexander Mihajlovich, member of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko, which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as a national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18, 2007. To the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, a member of the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko, which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18, 2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council, Ukrainian National Deputy Korniychuk E.V., a member of the Yulia Timoshenko MP. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as a national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04. 07. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy of the Royal Natalia Jurijovna, a member of the House of Deputies of the Yulia Timoshenko faction. A statement. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the Ukrainian national deputy, my mandate as the Ukrainian national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 17, 2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Kuzmenko Petar Pavlovich, member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the political party block “Block Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007’. To the Apparatus of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Levtsun Volodymyr Ivanovich, member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, on which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my authority has been suspended in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18, 2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy of Ukraine Logwinenka Alexija Stepanović, member of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Lukjanenko Levka Grigorovich, a member of the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. A statement. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In view of the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as a national deputy should be suspended in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 17.04. 2007 To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy of Ukraine Mishchenka Sergio Grigorovič, member of the deputy faction “Bloka Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for early elections and for the term of office. The Supreme Council of the Fifth Council declares its exit from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as a national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic, member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. With a view to giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the election block “Blok Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy of Osika Sergio Grigorovitch, member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloka Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the “Timoshenko Block”, which I was elected a national deputy on the list, my mandate is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of Article 81 of the Constitution. There's no date on the application. To the Apparatus of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Pisarenko Valerija Volodymyrovich, member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, which I was elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine is terminated. April 18, 2007. The apparatus of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Portnova Andrija Volodymyrovich. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloka Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the “But Block”, which I was elected a national deputy, my mandate as Ukrainian national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04. 07. To the Apparatus of the Supreme Council, National Deputy of Seminoga Anatolia Ivanovich, member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloka Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the election block “Blok Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my mandate as Ukrainian National Deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18, 2007. To the Apparatus of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Skoubenko Volodymyr Petrovich, member of the deputy faction “Bloku Timoshenko”. A statement. In order to give the President of Ukraine additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit of the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Blok Timoshenko” by the list of which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 17.04.2007. To the Supreme Council's apparatus, from the national deputy Terjehoin Sergey Anatoliyovich, a member of the BUT deputy faction. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the BUT delegation. In connection with the exit from the MP’s faction c.b. The “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, which listed me as elected National Deputy of Ukraine, my powers as National Deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04. 07. Since the Head promised, I will read again, even though, as he said, the application was made to the court. Statement by Turkinova O.V., member of the deputy faction “Bloku Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the BUT MP’s faction, on which I was elected as a national deputy, my authority as a national deputy is to be suspended in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04. 07. To the Office of the Supreme Council, National Deputy Burjak Aleksandra Vasilovich, a member of the BUT delegation. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council's fifth call, I will declare my withdrawal from the MP's “Block Timoshenko” faction. In connection with the exit from the “Block Timoshenko” faction, by which I was elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my authority as a national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007. To the Apparatus of the Supreme Council of Huban Bogdan Volodymyrovich, a member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the BB deputy faction “Block Timoshenko”, by which I was elected a national deputy, my mandate as Ukrainian national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04. 07. To the Office of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputy, Trinduk Yuri Grigorovič, a member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council's fifth call, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the “Block Timoshenko” constituency, by which I was elected a national deputy, my mandate as a national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18, 2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council of the People's Deputy, Mr. Feldman Alexander Borisovich, a member of the faction block. a member of the faction block of Yulia Timoshenko. A statement. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the election block “Blok Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18, 2007. To the Office of the Supreme Council of People's Deputies, Mr. Shamanov Valerija Viktorovich, a member of the deputy faction “Blocca Yulia Timoshenko”. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council's fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Block of Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the “Block Timoshenko” faction, by which I was elected a national deputy, my mandate as Ukrainian national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18, 2007. The Supreme Council's apparatus, National Deputy Shevchenk Andrija Vitaliyovich. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the “Julia Timoshenko” faction, by which I was elected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, my authority as a national deputy is subject to termination in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007. To the Aperate of the VR of Ukraine, Shepleeva Alexander Alexandrovitch, a national deputy. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the Yulia Timoshenko Dept. faction, my mandate is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. 18.04.2007. Yeah, next. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the President's decree on the permanent termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of April 2, 2007, which considered it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Borisov. April 18, 2007. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of April 2, 2007, which considers it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the MP faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Member of the People's Parliament of Sklar.” It's a glass The date is not available, but the signature has been verified by lips 1.06. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April 2007, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Bogesheva. There's no date. April 18th. Supreme Council. In keeping with the Ukrainian President's decree of April 2, 2007, “On a permanent suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, 2007, as it is impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Deputies of Dávimuk. 18.04. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April 2007, as it is impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National Deputy of Ukraine, Long T.O. April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the President's decree of April 2, 2007, “On a permanent cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, 2007, which considered it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Yar Kendzer. April 18th. Supreme Council. In support of the President’s decree “On the permanent cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April 2007, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fifth vocation. Yu Klukkowski. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since April 2, 2007, which considers it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies' faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. The National Deputy of Ukraine is the King. There's no date. April 18th. Supreme Council. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since April 2, 2007, which considers it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies' faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Wing. Supreme Council. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since April 2, 2007, which considers it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies' faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Maroustenka. 21.04. Supreme Council. In support of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since April 2, 2007, which considers it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies' faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly. Ukraine’s third, fourth, fifth - calling, Peter Poroshenko. I can't see the dates. Spig Fedir Ivanovich is a national deputy of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Order of Ukraine on the timely suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2 April 2007, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. 18.04.2007. In support of the President's decree. I'm sorry. April 18th. Supreme Council. In support of the President's decree on the permanent suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's powers since April 2, 2007, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my resignation from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation. People's MP, Arzhevtin. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2 April 2007,” I declare it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine in the fifth vocation, claiming my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” of the fifth vocation. National Deputy of Ukraine Kozachenko Aleksyyyyovich. I'm sorry. I'm The Supreme Council of Ukraine. Supporting the Presidential Order of Ukraine: “Concerning a permanent cessation. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of April 2, 2007,” considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. ” [[Article 81, paragraph 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine]] April 21, 2007. St. St. John's. I'm sorry. I'm The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2 April 2007,” and in view of the impossibility of continuing the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Assembly. People's MP Long S.O. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2 April 2007,” and in view of the impossibility of continuing the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Assembly, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Assembly. National Deputy Jemilev Mustafa. April 18th. April 18th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Presidential Order of Ukraine, “On the timely cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 2 April 2007,” as it is impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call. Kubida. And the same situation as the Turk's. Yesterday you heard a report that the Head filed an appropriate application against Roman Immortal. April 17th. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree “On the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April 2007, as it is impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Roman Immortal. Thus, those statements that have come at this time are read. In this regard, I would like to say, you know, looking at the statements, I have a desire to make a proposal to the People's Deputies Elections Act so that every candidate in the People's Deputies, apart from the Declaration, will fill in at least a small dictator to see how he knows the national Ukrainian language. That's one thing. And the second. I don't want to be a bad prophet, but I would like to mention about a year ago when I had to read the statements on the creation of a coalition called the Coalition of Democratic Orange Powers, and when there were huge applausees in the hall, and the twilights were flying, and they were shouting, "Ura!" that formed a coalition. After that, there was no coalition. I'm afraid to be, once again, a bad prophet, but I think that after I read their statements none of these statements will work, because we have to follow the law. This has been done — again and again — illegally, for the 81 articles referred to by the authors clearly state that such gatherings can only be carried out on the basis of a law that is not available. That's one thing. And the second. We'll be waiting for the Central Election Commission to react, because instead of those who don't want to be national MPs, there is an opportunity to recognize the authority of other national MPs. And I think we're going to be taking vows with you soon, listening to the oath of the National Deputies, whose powers will be recognized by the Central Electoral Commission. In this regard, honourable colleagues, it would be logical for us to now include in the agenda and consider the draft decree number 3687: “To amend the Supreme Council Order on the Election of Heads, First Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Head of the Secretariat, Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization.” Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, we vote. [[11:26:30.]] For 257 Questions are included in the agenda. Dear colleagues, the point is that part of the committee heads, or their deputies, voluntarily gave up their parliamentary powers. And here we have to replace these vacancies. In order not to violate our principle, not to violate what is enshrined in the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, without violating our principle as we formed the governing body of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is a suggestion that instead of those who do not want to work in the Supreme Council, we should select committee leaders or their deputies from the same factions that the committees belonged to earlier. I will read this draft Decision so that our voters who are listening to the Supreme Council will hear: “The Supreme Council decides: to bring to the Supreme Council Order of 18 July 2006 the election of the heads, the first deputies, the deputy heads, the secretaries, the members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine the fifth vocation and election of the head, the first deputy, the deputy heads of the secretariat, the members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the privatization of such changes. First, in chapter one: choose the House of Oleg Volodymyrovich, National Deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Yulia Timoshenko District, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban, Housing and Communal Economy, by releasing him from the duties of deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism. Select Polishchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, from the multi-mandatory national constituency “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, the faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” as deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of fuel and energy, nuclear policy and nuclear security, and release him from the duties of a member of this committee. Select Kovtunek Aleksandr Volodymyrovich, Ukrainian National Deputy, from the multi-mandatory national constituency “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, the faction “Block of Timoshenko” by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, and release him from the duties of deputy head of this committee. Choose Tkachenka Vladimir Vladimirovich, National Deputy of Ukraine from the multi-mandatory national constituency “Blok Timoshenko”, faction of Timoshenko as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality, liberating him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. The other one. In the second chapter, select Lutsky Maxim Georgievic, Ukrainian National Deputy, from the multi-mandatory national constituency “Blok Timoshenko”, the faction “Blok Timoshenko” as head of the Special Monitoring Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization, releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. Dear colleagues, shall we vote in favour of the decree or for each individual? Let's do it in general, as we voted in the previous rulings on the election of committee heads. Is there no objection? Questions? None. For now, I'll tell you later. I then put to the vote on the adoption of the whole decision, registration number 3687, amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Representatives of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Fifth Call Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and on the election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization. Please vote. [[11:30:58]] For 260 Copy that. Let us welcome the new leadership of the Committees of the Supreme Council. And I, my dear colleagues, think we're going to consider Tuesday, and the following questions are related to other committees, because some of the committees have been released by representatives of our Ukraine. I'm addressing the faction representatives from our Ukraine who are in the session room to prepare proposals for the replacement of the heads and deputies of the committee heads who were assigned to the "Our Ukraine" faction. And please find volunteers who would like to join the Committee on Science and Education, because part, if I'm not mistaken, of the two members of this committee have moved to chair positions in other committees. Yes, we are continuing our consideration of issues of order, and we are listening to the draft Law amending some of Ukraine’s legislative acts regarding the exercise of State oversight in the field of communication. Registration number 3056. Reported to the head of the National Liaison Board, Zvierev Vladimir Pavlovich, to prepare Chukmasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, thank you! Dear National Deputies! Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on State Liaison Supervisory, No. 3056, was designed to implement the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers decision of 31 August 2005, No. 844 on the establishment of State Liaison Inspection and introduced to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers for the purpose of systematizing and improving the legislative principles of the organization and the exercise of State oversight in the areas of telecommunications, postage and use of Ukraine’s radio-frequency resources. The bill provides for amendments to certain laws of Ukraine, such as the Law on Telecommunications on the determination of the powers of public officials in the field of public telecommunications market surveillance, the Law on Postal Communications on the completion of the rules on the supervision of postal communications, the Law on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine on the clarification of the powers and procedures of the State Liaison Inspection and the Code on Administrative Offences of Articles 188, 243, 255 in accordance with the above-mentioned laws. The laws cited above were adopted at different times and were not sufficiently clear, and they systematically defined the principles of activity and the authority of the State Liaison Inspectorate regarding the exercise of State oversight in the field of law enforcement, as well as a number of jurisdictions in the relevant sphere of regulation. The Ukrainian Postal Liaison Act does not have any rules on the order of implementation of the relevant functions of the State Liaison Inspectorate authorized by its officials. This creates problems with the implementation of State oversight, which is addressed by the bill. According to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the first reading of the bill can be adopted taking into account the comments and suggestions of the government. The adoption of this draft law will contribute to the improvement of the state oversight system in the area of communication and the creation of the only legal and organizational principles, public oversight in the areas of telecommunications, postal communications, and use of Ukraine’s radio frequency. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the relevant bill and to take it as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u34	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Dry, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u35	Vladimir Pavlovich, I have a brief question, because there is still, perhaps because you were in a hurry to report, reporting, the question of motivation remains unclear, so how do we explain, reason to the electorate, because there is one today. These issues are settled as if they were valid bills. So, for example, the quality control function of communication from the central executive authority to the state liaison inspection and other aspects, I understand, they are organizational in nature, but what motivation will this give to the end-users of these services? We're not going to talk about the administration system. And will quality improve, or will the structure of these enterprises be improved? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. That is the way in which improvements in the work and distribution of powers and the national commission and the state liaison inspection are made. And secondly, the state liaison inspection is a branched body that has been created with regional representations and consumers on the ground will be able to contact the government's liaison inspection of the issues that arise. And in general, the direction of the work of the State Inspectorate, it's not going to be about inspection, it's going to be more about auditing, it's about interpreting the positions and rights of consumers, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat. First Deputy Chief of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Sergio Alexandrovich, please contact the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u38	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, at his meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Transport and Communications, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts concerning State oversight in the field of communications. Ukraine’s draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on State Oversight in the Field of Communications, registration numbers 3056 of 01.02.2007. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legislative principles of State oversight and control in the areas of telecommunications, telecommunications, postal services, and the use of Ukraine’s radio frequency. The bill provides for amendments to a number of laws, such as the Law on Telecommunications of Ukraine (for the determination of the powers of officials of the State Liaison Inspectorate for the supervision of the telecommunications market; the Law on Postal Communications of Ukraine (for the completion of the rules on the supervision of postal services); the Law on Radio Frequency Resources of Ukraine (for the clarification of the powers and procedures of the State Liaison Inspectorate and the Code of Administrative Offences in the area of the introduction of articles 118.7, 243 and 255 in accordance with the above-mentioned laws). It should be noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, acknowledges that the results of the first reading of the bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments and suggestions made. The Ministry of Transport and Communications supports the bill, which takes into account the comments made. There is no national commission for regulating the relationship of comments to the bill. Taking into account the results of the discussion at the meeting of the Committee and the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the National Liaison Board recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the basis of a first reading, the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain legislative acts of Ukraine concerning the exercise of State control in the field of communication on a basis, by entrusting it with the Committee, taking into account the observations and proposals made by the Ukrainian National Deputies, other subjects of the law of the legislative initiative, to prepare the draft bill for the second reading and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u39	Thank you. Are there any questions? Have a seat. If you want to be part of a faction discussion, write it down. Yes, please, individually. Yeah, there's no one. So I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to Some Legislatures. Ukraine for State oversight in the field of communication Registration number 3056. Please vote. [[11:42:00]] For the 250. Decision taken. A draft Law on Commodity Exchange is under consideration. Registration number 3256. Reported by Muntian Deputy Minister of Economy Valeriy Ivanovich. Prepare the Europeans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u40	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished ones. By paragraph ninety of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree No. 397 of 30.11.2006 and paragraph 1.2. 12 Orders of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 20.01.2006 No. 42 provide for the development of a draft Ukrainian Law on Commodity Exchange in a new edition. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the Commodity Exchange in the new edition is primarily related to the need to regulate new regulations and, in principle, to new concepts of market trade in market relations that are not in force by law introduced on January 1, 1992. The bill was developed by the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. The main tasks of the bill are: First. Improving the scope of the commodity exchange. The other one. Details of the mechanism for State regulation of the market in goods. Third. The definition of the single rules, principles, methods and approaches for market arbitration with a view to considering disputes through the permanent functioning of the arbitral tribunals. Developing trade market rules to regulate the professional activities of market participants. Ensure that contracts are implemented, that new technologies are put into practice that will reduce financial risks in the product market. The draft law is based on a principled new approach to commodity markets. That's right. The stock exchange does not engage in commercial transactions, does not receive profits at the moment, nor can it be a party to market agreements. In order to increase the qualification requirements for commodity markets, the bill establishes that the number of members of the commodity market cannot be less than 20. The other one. The stock exchange’s statutes cannot be less than 500,000 dollars. The draft law details the mechanism for State control and regulation of the market in goods. Part of the development of regulatory acts on the functioning of the marketable commodity market. The definition of qualifying requirements for the operation of commodity markets, the accreditation of commodity markets according to the established Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in order and the monitoring of compliance with the terms and conditions of accreditation. Controlling the activity of commodity markets. One of the important provisions of the draft law is the definition of the terms and conditions for the organisation of trade in commodity markets, which are admitted to circulation in the commodity market according to the rules of market trade, except that prohibited by valid legislation. The need for the adoption of the Ukrainian Trade Stock Exchange Bill will allow for improved organisation of commodity markets, real market prices to be determined on the basis of demand ratios and market supply. Warn price risks for base asset manufacturers. The bill is in agreement with interested ministries in order. The Ukrainian Law on Trade Stock Exchange was supported by the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations and the Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The implementation of the bill does not require additional public and local budgets. According to Minsk’s legal expertise, the bill is consistent with current legislation and is one of the priority areas in which Ukraine’s legislation is adapted to European Union legislation. The comments and proposals to the bill submitted in the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office will be taken into account in preparing it for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the second reading. Please support the bill in its proposed form and accept it as the basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u41	Thank you. Are there any questions? You don't? Sign up. Please, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u42	Thank you. That's my question. Of course, this bill and I think that the Communist faction will support it in time, and it's very necessary, but when it comes to improving the field of trade and trade. But I have a question, given that the commodity market is covering a large range of economic developments in Ukraine, as the prime minister of this kind. How today, what is the appearance of inflation in Ukraine as a whole during these nearly five and a half months of working together with the government, and what is the prospect? That's the first one. And the second. What is the pattern of inflation on European continents in general?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u43	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, I tell the people's deputies honestly and frankly only with figures, arguments and facts that the consumer price index, the inflation they say since the beginning of the year is only 1.9 percent for today. That year was 2.9 percent. It is less than 33 percent in comparative terms to the previous period of the corresponding year. Today, despite all these trends, the government of Ukraine means its macro-economic indicators, and that is to say, the consumer price index by the end of this year, with a cumulative effect of 7.5, giving an answer to the second question, will come up with these parameters. As for the current month, so based on expectations of scientific predictions and projections, we expect an average consumer price index of 0.5 to 0.6 percent of the increase. I mean, once again, it's lower in multiples. As far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u44	Please deposit in one minute, but continue to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u45	Yeah, three and four, yeah. As far as the overall macroeconomic situation is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u46	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u47	Thank you. First of all, I think Alexander Mikolaiovich made a point of the faction. In general, the project submitted by the government deserves support, and we will vote for it. But there are also some questions. Do you not think that the issue of State regulation of the activities of commodity exchanges needs to be defined in more detail in this law, particularly with regard to the consolidation of the relevant powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I mean in this area, as well as more clearly defining the forms of State control over the activities of commodity markets, which are, in our view, very and very important? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u48	Thank you for asking. I want to say that the positions that you've expressed, the Ministry of Economics and the Cabinet of Ministers are in favour. So the goal of the government's economic policy is to make these processes transparent in order to increase the state's level of compliance regulation, the effectiveness of the eligibility criteria and the effectiveness of market relations. Why, for today’s time to say honestly and frankly that they work effectively, we cannot. And to that end, the government has passed this bill to improve the situation. Your suggestions are appropriate, and we'll take them into account in the next preparation. And they're basically predictable here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u49	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u50	Dear Valery Ivanovich, I want to address you not only as deputy minister but as a scientist. One of the main indicators of a healthy economy is the level of inflation. It's like a human body temperature. There are now many political speculations on the part of the opposition in the populist plane regarding the level of inflation today. Could you give objective reliable data on this parameter, if possible, in dynamics and in comparison with past years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u51	Thank you. So I want to be honest and honest with you, if I say today that the index of gross domestic product is 7.9 percent, for each of you it doesn't say anything yet. Because we need a comparative characteristic. You said, well, like temperature: 36.6 and 42, we already know. So according to the science “Ecos.” - the economic security of threshold values - the threshold is not zero, the gross product is increasing or decreasing, but the increase is 2.7 percent. This is just a threshold that can only provide macroeconomic stability. Next. Let's see what's going on in the world. We take the country number one by economic potential: the United States. Plus 2.9, which is just 0.2 percent higher than the threshold. Another, another country in the world: Japan is 1.1 percent. Further, we take the countries of the Euros: 2.9 percent. The countries of the European Union are 2.2 below the threshold. Now we're taking countries that have the biggest economic development -- China and India. Today, China.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u52	Thank you. You'll talk about China later. Have a seat, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] I know what to do. Please have a seat. Once again, for the third time, I warned you that it would be necessary in one minute. This is where they ask the question as a scientist, and it is necessary for the deputy minister to report. We'll have scientists at our parliamentary hearings. Yuri Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. This bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy on 6 June. And the Committee recommends that it be adopted by the Supreme Council on first reading. At the same time, the vote was unanimous on the bill, as it is very many things that are currently not clearly or precisely prescribed in the legislation that are more detailed, more precise and more convenient in this commodity exchange law, once again. Secondly, the bill sets out more precisely the list of rights and obligations, both for the exchange itself and for the members of the exchange, are two. Thirdly, it expands and refines, specifies the list of prohibitions on market participation and also makes it impossible for stockholders themselves to break the rules of the market. At the same time, the Committee drew attention to the comments made on the bill, both by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Chief Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In particular, the form of the commodity exchange itself is not clearly defined, i.e. it is inconsistent with the Ukrainian Civil Code. Furthermore, if the current law makes it very clear that article 21 sets out the rule of termination and the condition of termination of the commodity exchange, then the new bill makes these conditions vague and uncertain. Furthermore, article 8 of the Act currently regulates the use of the property of the commodity exchange itself. And it is also excluded that it is unacceptable. I would like to point out that, at present and in the future, we hope that the stock exchange is not a profitable organization, it is not a profit-making organization, it aims to organize market participants in a trading venue. In view of the above, the Committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt it on first reading and to further develop it until the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u54	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please register with the factions. Individually. Then I put to the vote a proposal for acceptance as a basis for the first reading of the Commodity Exchange Act. Registration number 3256. Please vote on the bill of government. [[11:57:15.]] For 245 Decision taken. A draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009 is under consideration. Registration number 3512. Reported by Semenyuk Valentina Petrovna, head of the State Property Fund. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. You are considering the draft State Privatization Programme for 2007-2009. The bill was drafted in accordance with the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers, which clearly regulates the privatisation procedure, the dividend policy procedure, and the rental relationship. A procedure that clearly envisages privatization in accordance with the rules established by the programme. What I'm saying is that there's an old privatization programme now in place in 2000-2002, according to the Transitional Regulations, which is an old-fashioned program that's long-standing until a new programme is adopted. What is new in the privatization program? First of all, these are rules that clearly allow for a privatisation contest, an auction competition, a competition, a stock exchange. The privatization program must state the obligation to study the market connectivity of an object, establish a mechanism for a clear decommissioning of the State Property Fund with those ministries and offices that manage and propose public property objects, and establish appropriate commissions that prepare the object for privatization, which clearly prescribes a period prior to the privatisation, a period that clearly regulates the sale of damage objects that the State cannot raise that the State needs to invest. Above all, the terms of the competition are prescribed for strategically designated entities with the appropriate approval of the selection of the conditions of the competition involving industry ministries, ministries of economics, ministries of finance for enterprises that are now holding small shares in the stock market. As far as the sale of objects is concerned, they will mainly be sold in accordance with the Ukrainian Privatisation Act, which clearly indicates the sale of an object with land. In addition, it is proposed to amend the legislation of Ukraine, which clearly states that the entire technological procedure for privatizing the subject’s dependence on the sector will be prescribed by environmental audits, which prescribes the conditions for a clear regulation of the state of production of the technical value of an object to the privatization committee, as provided for by the Local Self - Government Act. Because in accordance with article 43 of the Law on Local Self-Government, the formation of a socio-economic plan for the development of the territory is based on the basis of the work of enterprises, regardless of the form of ownership. Therefore, when an object is being prepared for privatization, the formation of a commission is mandatory from now on, and this is prescribed in the privatization program, where representatives of local governments are required representatives when preparing a suitable object for privatization. In addition, the mandatory presence of professional committees, labour teams, in order to make sure that the conditions of the competition make it possible for social guarantees to be drawn up in order to monitor the implementation of investment obligations to clearly prescribe conditions of competition that would guarantee the level of pay for work guaranteed by social protection. It is imperative that the terms of the competition include aspects that are in line with the Social Partnership Act. And that's the norm that says that privatization now takes on broader, more transparent work and preparations for privatization. Because the more involvement in the preparatory committee and the terms of the competition are being prepared, the more the representatives of the various ministries and offices of representatives of the territorial communities and trade committees who will be responsible, together with the State Property Fund, for preparing for privatization and then, in the next, for monitoring the implementation of investment commitments. At the same time, the terms of the competition will clearly prescribe instruments that meet the relevant international law standards in part of the responsibility for privatization and in part of the performance of investment commitments. There is also a prescribed norm that provides for participation, or exchange, not only on the inside but also on the outside. Because today the stock market that was created in Ukraine needs more and more work and what we are offering today in the new Privatisation Programme, including the exit to the external market, is that principle and the expansion of the stock market in Ukraine. I want to say that as regards the preparation of the most competitive terms of privatization, there is a clear procedure for preparing a study of market conjuncturing, which provides for the sale of any object to be sold with a study of conjuncturality. In order to understand all this, I will explain the situation. Today, we have one, two, three percent on the stock market, we study the conjuncture and the real price of the property. Let me give you an example. The “Cruvoristal” was sold at 1.95 in 2004, and the price at the latest in the stocks left in the State Property Fund was 6.95. Therefore, considering that market economy and study, the need for this study must involve the fact that a market will be involved before the sale, enabling it to study the structure of the object or the level of capitalization of the object to be sold. In addition, the Privatization Programme provides for a number of objects or procedures to prepare for the privatization of objects that will fill the budget. Therefore, the sale of an object with land makes it possible to raise the level of capitalization, the profitable objects that will go according to sale, the qualifications conditions will be written down, and this list will be approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the list of objects for privatization will necessarily be an integral part of the budget for each year, which will be adopted by Parliament accordingly. Question three. This is something that the preparation will necessarily provide for the competitiveness of the selection of assessors, the competitiveness of the selection of representatives for environmental audits, and a conjunct. The privatization programme envisages the privatization of unfinished construction facilities, both privatization and monitoring of the implementation of investment commitments, amending the Law on the Characteristics of Privatization in an agro-industrial complex that clearly envisages a specific sector. And here, in this room, we have passed a law on the specificities of privatization in the APC, where, in fact, an agro-industrial complex through privatization mechanisms provides for the obligation to create competitiveness, but, at the same time, co-operation of raw materials and production bases is essential when privatizing a clearly defined mechanism for leaving objects on balance sheets and their form of use. All that will be included in the statutory funds. This is a sure provision for the manufacturing industry, for the social facilities that were built and built. In fact, they will now remain in the hands of the State and, in line with the State Property Fund’s inventory, such facilities will be transferred, in accordance with the law on transfer from state ownership to municipal property, and administrative decisions will be made to ensure that such facilities, especially those in the social sphere, are transferred to municipal property so that they can be used by representatives of the territorial communities to provide services or work for those citizens living in the territory concerned. Basically, the basis of the law is two, I'd say, the main factors. The administrative decisions in accordance with the law on the administration of public property are taken by the Ministry of State, that is, it analyzes the work of the sector and sees which object to be issued for privatization, and the second is the privatization mechanism with the mandatory approval of the State Property Fund by the Ministry or branch, or by the relevant department in charge of the facility. And the transfer, the transfer procedure for privatization by the State Property Fund. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Will there be questions? Sign up. Please, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u57	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, socialist party, Ternopil. I want to thank you, Valentina Petrovna, for this program, because this really allows us to put order in the state sector of the economy. This gives us an opportunity to create a competitive environment for the realisation of state property, which in turn will allow us to further channel the funds to the State budget, which today is in dire need of our social sphere and all other spheres. But I have a question. Why have we not yet had this program? That's one question. The second question. As we are now implementing land objects, which we talked about some months ago. And the third question. I would like to find out how much the State budget today receives from the implementation of military assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. And I want to say that the privatization program, as I said, was adopted in 2000. It worked until 2002 and will continue until this program, which will be approved today, is signed by the President of Ukraine. I think that the non-adoptation of the privatization programme, the old mechanism of 2000, was not the political will to adopt the new programme, what I mean is that, for the first time in Ukraine, the Act on the administration of public property is the author of this law, and I can say that only after carrying out the inventory did we see that we have a presence that still needs to be sold, or that the budget needs to be filled from the restoration of production. And that's why the privatization program involves finding the owner of those enterprises where the state can't raise, that is, find other sources of filling or restoring businesses. To date, Ukraine's State Property Fund has been listed as the central budget for January-April for one billion 168 million dollars, only from privatization. If you take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u59	Please, Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u60	Thank you. I want to ask you the next question. Please tell me whether the law will protect our state property or not and whether effective controls will be carried out to ensure the effectiveness of privatized objects. Where am I going? You were part of a delegation during a visit to Hersonian Prime Minister of Ukraine, and he personally and the Minister of Industrial Policy gave you the tasks of our Hersonian combines. Sadly, it has been six months, but nothing has been done. People are suffering, there is no wages, metal is exported and a budgeting enterprise is zero today. Are the control functions, the efficiency functions, being enhanced? I think Pinchuk better do metallurgy. He's got nothing to do with the Hersonian combines, with the power plant. Well, he showed his incompetence, so why don't we just keep our mouths shut, why we don't make conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u61	I want to say that the privatization program provides for clear monitoring of the implementation of investment commitments. In the case of voucher privatisation, the control of investment liabilities and, in general, investment commitments were not a rule of law that would enable the State Property Fund and you to monitor the performance of investment commitments. There was no such standard. The second question is in the Herson factory. What I'm saying is that in 1999, there was a firm called Ukraineinvest, which was actually handed over to 36 power plants to the statutory fund. It was managed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the charter contained, more faithfully, a forged statute that recorded the right of the company itself without the consent of the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Property Fund to alienate property, to sell and so forth. And I don't argue every time the statutes are approved. Today, the law must be clear, transparent, and legacies themselves. And they can't be delegated. I've been judging since 2003. I was tried as if I were the head of the commission and now,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u62	There's hope you'll finish. Please, Smith. The court is adjourned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u63	Valentino Seminal. Garbage, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u64	Valentina Petrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u65	Last year, I wrote to you, asking you to consider transferring the Bolshevik factory, because this factory is not working today, and it's a little bit of what they call jargon, derby, to transfer this factory to the Kyiv University of Technology, the largest technical university in Ukraine, which brings together about 45,000 students and a teaching unit. I had a meeting with the minister of education who confirmed this request, and he had the same point of view that it would only benefit the future for the training of professionals. You said in your answer that if your plan were to reduce privatization, then you would consider it. But where, then, is the state position if we divorce everything? How do you react to this proposal to come back to this question and come out with an offer, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u66	I thank you for the questions and I want to say. No one has ever had a plan of 10 billion dollars before, except Semenyuk. Or, as you might say, this year and that corresponding budget period. That is why it must be done. And the list of objects that have been prepared and approved by the Cabinet of Ministers for privatization must be completed, and the plan must be implemented. The second question is about the object. You cannot transfer objects to educational institutions if you have tax debts. So now the State Property Fund is clearing out debts so that the business is not declared bankrupt and transferred accordingly to you. The other one. This object is not allowed to be privatized. At present, government decisions are taken by the State Property Fund together with tax, and we have paid off 32 million tax debts in the past month, 10 million remaining. Then we'll go with the offer to the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, decisions cannot be made unless bankruptcy is threatened and debt obligations are cleared. This is a norm that is clearly defined by the Law on the Revolving of Enterprises.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u67	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Have a seat, please. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u68	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting considered the draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009 submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and decided to recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a basis and as a whole. The adoption by Parliament of the State Privatisation Programme is provided for by the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. It should be noted that the last program was adopted seven years ago and was only supposed to exist for three years: from 2000 to 2002, so, for five years now, the State Property Fund, privatization agencies have been working on a program whose standards have long been inadequate to modern realities and thus require review of basic principles and approaches to property reform. So there was a need to adopt a new state privatization programme that was in line with the country's strategic course, and also to define new requirements for the privatization of state property processes, clear and well-founded criteria for the treatment of enterprises to those subject to privatization, set out tasks to optimize the size of the public sector of the economy. Pursuant to the draft law, the State privatization programme for 2007-2009 sets out the main objectives, priorities and conditions for privatization of state property, property belonging to the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and municipal property for 2007-2009. The goal of privatization during the programme's duration is to optimize the public sector of the economy, create a competitive environment, attract investment and accelerate technological upgrading, modernize enterprises and implement public policies for economic growth, and ensure that funds from privatization to the State Budget are received. Priorities for privatization in 2007-2009 are proposed to identify the following: the first is the sale, along with high-performance industrial facilities, to ensure the execution of budget tasks for small-scale stock packages, business losses, and the purchaser's obligation to carry out their financial recovery. Second, an increase in the amount of government budget funds received from privatization, by increasing the specificity and transparency of sales. The work of the program is to privatize objects that continue to be economically unusable in state ownership. Ensuring that funds are received from privatization in the amount provided for in the State Budget Act of Ukraine for the year in question are made available to the State budget. In particular, the position of the program clearly determines the position of the program and clearly identifies the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Fund of State Property, the executive authorities for the compilation of a list of privatization objects that should be sold to ensure that the costs of privatization are met during the period indicated. The State Property Fund is obliged to approve by 31 December of the year preceding the planned period, the quarterly and monthly sales schedule for the following year. The program removes from the privatization process the term “industrial investor” and determines that buyers of a controlling set of shares of particles, pies and the only assets that are strategically relevant to the economy and security of the State, or occupy a monopoly, dominant position in the public market for goods, services, may be exclusively persons, or their mergers determined by buyers in accordance with the Ukrainian law on the privatization of state property, provided that such persons who., or persons who directly control, are not registered in the offshore zone. These, mentioned above, and other features of the programme will ensure further development and improvement in privatization processes, market price privatisation, privatization problems in previous years, and greater openness and transparency in the process of property reform. As a result, the socio-economic efficiency of production should be increased through the involvement of effective owners, which will contribute to creating a competitive environment as a condition for the country's economic growth and population well-being. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u69	Thank you, sit down, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up for factions. Yes, individually. Yes, please, Zibanka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u70	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Perhaps our voters know that unlike many political forces, the faction of Communists has a clear, consistent attitude toward privatization processes. I would like to say that the Communist faction of the proposed privatization programme will not be supported. Three reasons. First of all, we think that we can't even try to improve what isn't, in principle, perfect. The fact is that our practice and our lives, the privatization processes in Ukraine, have shown that it cannot really be transparent or fair in Ukraine. And so this is an important argument on the way to not supporting this document. It's different. I'd like to say that there's no point in improving even because the virtually absolute majority of property in Ukraine, from the point of view of the national farm complex, has already been eliminated. And that's why it makes sense to improve the privatization processes in a situation where, in fact, there is absolutely nothing to privatize. And the third argument. I'd like to say what's the point of further privatization, if we can't trace it, and where is the cost of selling, let's say, the property of Ukraine to foreign investors. The most striking example in this regard is the privatisation of the “Criminals”. We're looking for a successful sale of the "Criminals", not even the Supreme Council, I'm not talking about anyone else anymore, I'm talking about finding clues. Where did the money go? In whose pockets did they dwell? That's why I'm stressing once again that the faction of the communists will not be able to support this privatization programme in a coherent way. Moreover, the main priorities of the program are the sale of high - quality enterprises and objects with all the consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u71	Thank you for discussing the matter in a final manner. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009. Bill number 3512. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:23:53]] For 233 Decision taken. A break of 30 minutes to 12 hours is announced for 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Privatisation Laws is under consideration. Registration number 3513. The government bill reports Seminouk Valentina Petrovna. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, for your consideration of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there is a draft Act amending certain legislative acts on privatization. I would like to say that the aim of amending these laws is, firstly, a practice that is confirmed by the work of the State Property Fund in part of what needs to be improved, particularly the Law on Privatization of State Property of Ukraine, on Privatization of Small State Enterprises, the so-called small privatization, to amend the law on the characteristics of the privatization of unfinished construction, to amend the law on privatization in the agricultural complex. What are the proposals offered by the Cabinet of Ministers? First of all, there's a new way of initiating privatization that's going in several directions. In particular, the privatisation of the tender with the opening of the auction price and this mechanism pointed to an example of privatization, which we could even clearly demonstrate on television, auctions with the downsizing of lotteries. What is proposed by the State Property Fund and the Cabinet of Ministers with such an appropriate action? First of all, we have discovered a number of objects that are both morally and physically eliminated today. We need to produce new products, start these businesses. And you could say, for example, I, as a socialist, am also against privatization, but today, seeing that there are enterprises that the state can't raise, we need to privatize with those enterprises that can live, that can provide jobs that can produce possible other products in businesses that are both morally and technically obsolete today. That's why we're proposing changes in legislation that would allow, first of all, privatization and restoration of production. The restoration of production provides, first and foremost, jobs, people's wages, social guarantees, which will be prescribed under the terms of the competition, and this is what is mentioned in the changes to legislation. The other one. This is that the enterprise data that is going to privatize the bidding with the auction elements clearly foresee: First. Restoring not only businesses but also producing products that could allow them to compete with other businesses that they might have, including and work for others, could work for other countries, that is, where they could be properly implemented. And I also want to say that, in the conditions that we're applying today's legislation for amendments, we clearly attribute the competition mechanism, the procedure itself, the preparatory procedure itself, including through appropriate mechanisms, the openness of trades that are being conducted today by the State Property Fund and its regional offices. In addition, we provide privatization through appropriate markets, which are appropriate institutions that ensure openness to privatization. We've seen in the legislation is already in the period since the adoption of privatization laws, which was mainly 1992, 1995, to be amended by the Small Privatization Act. And the main condition is that we write: “sale of small-scale privatization objects with land” means that we can sell objects, and we often see today that there is a struggle not for an object, but for the land on which it is possible and an object that needs to be destroyed, but this object is valuable to its land. That's why in the Law on Privatization of State Property we offer sales with land. Amendments should be made to the Law on Privatisation of Unfinished Construction. That's what they're all about. The old law provides that the object of unfinished construction is being sold and that the money from privatization does not go to the budget but goes to the person who bought the object in order to build it. This is, of course, nonsense, because it takes money to go into the budget and, if the state needs it to be built, they have to go through it in accordance with the law on the Budget Code with direct funding, so that the state can control how the funds are used. That's why we're making changes to the "On Unfinished Construction" Act in part to correct this mistake. What is more, you parliamentarians often suspend this article when adopting the Budget Act, in particular by adopting the Budget Act for the current years. We have examined that the Law on the peculiarities of privatization in the agro-industrial complex should also be reviewed, based on two factors. In the hands of the nations, there are only separate objects that are now being privatized with appropriate fates, such as those of inter-economic property, those that remain in the hands of the State. And that way of privatizing through the transfer of 51 percent of the stock to the producers today is no longer possible because the supporting documents in the archives where there is what, the agro-industry complex data were built for, in particular, processing industries. To ensure the work of the entire agri-industrial complex is not valid. That is why we must amend the Law on the peculiarities of privatization in the agro-industrial complex. At the same time, what I want to say is that the legislation is clearly prescribed, and I want to stress in particular, that there is a specific responsibility, and here I was answering Katerina Semenovna's question, this is the control over the performance of investment commitments. The Law on Privatization of State Property clearly requires that the owner buy the property. If this object is controlled by a specified period, its control is quarterly. That is, the Commission, with the participation of the Fund of State Property, the branch ministries, goes into place and clearly controls how investment commitments are carried out, and such verification occurs, the first check six months after the owner’s entry into his ownership rights, and then the control goes quarterly. So that we can clearly control that post-privatization period, whether the enterprise's work is restored, or whether people are guaranteed a salary, or whether people today can have the guarantees that were given in privatization and how to control them accordingly. At the same time, in this law we prescribe and bind ourselves with the law on social partnership and the law on trade unions. Firstly, it is mandatory to participate in the preparatory process for privatization, as I said before, and must be involved in monitoring the implementation of investment commitments, in particular those relating to sales contracts. We made it clear in the laws on privatization of information mechanisms, including media involvement in competitions. The mandatory involvement of representatives of local governments and the mandatory participation of representatives of local communities and the labour force. I mean, transparency in this situation is spreading. In addition, we have tied these changes to Ukraine’s legislation with the current Economic Code, since the mechanism must be clearly prescribed for control or work, effective use of public property objects where the state is present as a shareholder. You and I have adopted the Law on the Management of State Property Objects, which clearly provides for a representation mechanism in supervisory boards, in audit committees of state representatives, which could be quarterly, I repeat, quarterly control of how a state-owned enterprise works. So I'm asking you to support these changes to the law that allow you to run public property transparently, to privatize those objects that need investment to restore production, to pay people, to give jobs. And this will allow us today to bring back people who work for someone in Ukraine and to have our businesses working, providing production, filling the budget. Because the work of these companies depends on a lot and a lot of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u74	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna. Are there any questions? Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u75	Dear Valentina Petrovna. Bondarchuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please state the responsibility of the owners for fulfilling the social obligations that may be foreseen, since, at the first stage, the privatization phase records much and correctly and does not always carry out those obligations. And the second. Whether the obligation and responsibility of the owners for paying off the debt on wages are foreseen, since a large number of subjects subject to privatization have debt on wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u76	Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich. I mean, the changes that have been made to privatization legislation are clearly foreseen. First. A quarterly check by the State Property Fund and control especially on social issues is the representation of social policy and labour ministry employees and relevant departments. The other one. This is what is being checked in a quarterly way today, especially since the Law on Minimum Wage Setting allows today to control the minimum wage on enterprises irrespective of the form of ownership. Thus, monitoring will be done quarterly. With regard to social obligations, the mandate has been extended accordingly and it has been written that no one can change the terms of the competition without the participation of the labour force. Even now, this bill prohibits courts from amending treaties, as is the case today. I mean, he doesn't want to do the investment, he goes to court and says, change the terms of the competition so that Semenyuk doesn't bother me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u77	Yes, the famous lawyer Bogchuk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Valentina Petrovna, I support changes in the legislative acts relating to privatization, and I think that this is, indeed, an order in the privatization process. But I do have a few questions about the decisions we have already made with you. Well, first of all, we recently voted to privatize unfinished construction and land. How does this make it more attractive, and how does the price of these objects increase? And the second question about the courts that are now taking a special part in privatization. Because the courts decide on the obligation to stop the sale of an object or decide to sell an object or so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u79	I thank you so much for asking. And what I want to say is, let's say the price of an object goes up if it's sold with land. We recently sold one of the objects under Kiev, its small start price was 800,000, if we only took an estimate of the property complex. When we added the value of the land, we received 32 million for the object. Of course, there was a great role to be played by the fact that the sale was carried out under close watch and under direct television coverage. The others are yours. The answer to your question I can say is that today, individual judges, I don't want to blame all the judges, individual judges, really, decide to oblige the State Property Fund to sell, to ban sales. You know, I've recently been banned from selling one percent of the Peasant's stock. So why? If you're selling it in bulk, the start-up price is $800 million. If I study the circuitry and even sell it for one coin, it will be $4 billion,700 million. That's your transparency, that's your privatisation. They want everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u80	Thank you, you were convincing and reasoned. Have a seat, please. This will be confirmed by Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov on behalf of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill is proposed in a new edition of the Ukrainian Laws: “On Privatisation of State Property” and “On Privatisation of Small State Enterprises”, to make a number of changes to the Ukrainian Laws: “On the peculiarities of privatization of property in an agro-industrial complex”, “On the peculiarities of privatization of unfinished construction objects”, and to recognize that the Ukrainian Act “On the formation of competitive principles in the process of privatization of shares, particles, pies belonging to a state in the possession of legal persons” has become invalid, which is due to the need to reconcile these legislative acts with the Ukrainian Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009, which is also implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to the Supreme Council, and which we have adopted with you both as a basis and as a whole until the break. [[low privatization]] The proposed bill is intended to ensure the implementation of the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009 and to reconcile the legal basis for privatization, which will promote harmonization. legislation. The proposed bill regulates the legal provision of privatization of state property and, along with the project of the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009, which we have adopted, will ensure further development and improvement of privatization processes, sales of privatization objects at market prices, the resolution of the privatisation problem of previous years, the increased openness and transparency of public property reform. The results of the bill will help harmonise privatization legislation, create a real mechanism to accelerate privatization, ensure transparency, economic and social efficiency, which in turn will help create a competitive environment as a condition for economic growth and the well-being of the population. Taking into account the above, the Economic Policy Committee and recommending to the Supreme Council the adoption of the prescribed bill as a whole, as well as the Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009, which we have also adopted in general for a recess. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Bogchuk, please, microphone out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u83	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear MPs, dear Adam Ivanovich! I would like to support the presentation in the new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, as well as the ‘Promoting Small State Enterprises’, which are being introduced today, i.e. small privatization. As well as the changes proposed with regard to the laws: “On the specificities of privatization in the agro-industrial complex”, as well as “On the specificities of privatization of unfinished buildings”. Because, we see, today we need to put order in this process, because somewhere illegal privatization, which has been going on for some time, has given rise to what we call “residering”. And today, raids are being carried out on many attractive businesses. We should not give anyone a chance to get involved in these privatization processes. That is why I also support this State Privatization Programme for 2007-2009. Because I think we need to continue privatization today, we need to rebuild production today, we need to create additional jobs, we need to give people a salary, we need to return our employees to Ukraine, to their families, to their families, and so on. I believe that a person today has a role to play in this is the State Property Fund, which should ensure that investment commitments are monitored in accordance with the sales contracts. There's also some additional investment in an enterprise in Ukraine. I recall that our recent dispute arose on a special privatisation control commission, about Lugansk Township, where the representative of our Ukraine, Bondar Alexander, who had previously headed the property fund and sold it for thirty million and it was not about any additional investment commitments, he criticized today's head of the fund, who sold 300 million dollars and, in addition, about 600 million investment commitments, that the investment was worth. 1.5 billion today are investing in this enterprise. I believe that this privatization needs to be supported, and these changes we, for these changes, I ask everyone to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u84	Thank you. The discussion is over. We'll be clear. I am betting on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 3,513 of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization, a government bill. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:15:22]] For 228 Copy that. Yeah, there was an offer: take it as a law as a whole, but you see that there's 5 pages of scientific expertise? We have to count them, more than 300 didn't vote. I'd like that. Come on, too, Mikhail Vasilovich, work with the scientific expert's comments so that perhaps on Tuesday, when you're ready, we'll finally accept it as a law on Tuesday. Because there, you see, is quite a lot of scientific expertise. I think by Tuesday you and the State Property Fund will be working for these three days to be more legally clean, as they say. That's why I don't see any special problems. Yeah, we need to put it in the agenda and make a decision, bill number 3639. I'd like to make sure you're included in the agenda. [[13:16:38]] For-29 Something's not right. 29 – no decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda and consider Bill 3586. Please be supportive. Vote. Take down the vote. The point is that, you know, there was a decision by the Constitutional Court that was declared unconstitutional by the President of Ukraine regarding the appointment of administrative posts in the courts. The decision of the Constitutional Court states that this must be regulated by legislation, that the Supreme Council should regulate this by legislation. You know, you and I have adopted a temporary order, a temporary appointment order. But all of this does not, as it were, involve what is called a legislative arrangement. This is one moment. The other one. The Constitution makes it clear that such matters are decided solely on the basis of laws. So you and I need to adopt, we're going to be today, the law that solves these problems. Understand? Then I put to the vote the proposal to include the bill in the agenda and to consider Bill 3586. Please vote. [[13:18:35]] For 245 It's on. Please, Welder Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u85	Dear colleagues! As you know, the Constitutional Court has declared by its decision that it does not comply with the Constitution or is not constitutionally the position of part five of article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice, according to which the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, was appointed and dismissed as President of Ukraine. This is a May 16, 2007, decision number 1-PP\2007. With this same decision in the Supreme Council, it is immediately necessary to settle the issue of the appointment of judges as the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, and his dismissal. In taking a decision in this case, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine took into account the principles of the independence of the judiciary produced by the international community, as set out in, inter alia, the recommendations of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe of 13 October 1994 No. 9412. The independence, effectiveness, and role of judges indicate that a body authorized to make decisions on the career of judges should be independent of government and administrative bodies. The European Charter on the Status of Judges of July 10, 1998, which stipulates that decisions on the service promotion of courts shall be made by an authority independent of the executive and legislative authorities. In the basic principles of the independence of the judicial bodies approved by Resolutions No. 40\32 of 29 November 1985 and No. 40\146 of 13 December 1985 by the General Assembly of the United Nations, which states that removal from office or dismissal of judges should be subject to independent, stressing, checks. So again, about the organs of judicial self - government, there is no pressure, because these are independent organs. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine also takes into account the position of the concept of improving the judiciary to establish a fair trial in Ukraine in accordance with European standards, approved by Presidential Decree of 10 May 2006, number 361, which provides for the establishment of an order whereby administrative positions in the courts are held by judges appointed in due order. However, it should be noted that the stated position of that concept would not be consistent with part two, article 130 of the Constitution of Ukraine, according to which judicial self - government acts to address the internal affairs of the courts. So once again, I would like to point out that really in the concept approved by the President's Order, there is such an emissary that these organs of judicial self-government should be made, yet this is contrary to the principles defined by the Constitution of Ukraine and today. Therefore, if it is to be implemented, it is necessary to make appropriate changes to the Constitution. Why? Because of the authority of the head and deputy head of the court, the question of the organization of the activities of the judges is now being raised, as well as the conduct of certain procedural actions. This is a solution to the question of the judge's appointment, the change in the composition of the judiciary, and so forth. The Constitutional, Collegial Independent Authority responsible for the formation of a highly professional judiciary is the High Council of Justice. As noted in both the Constitution of Ukraine and the law on the Supreme Council of Justice. The activities of the High Council of Justice have been called upon, on the one hand, not to allow corporate manifestations of the formation of the judiciary, but, on the other hand, to guarantee the independence of judges from the influence and intervention of any authorities and officials. In addition, the High Council of Justice is composed not only of representatives from the legislative, executive, judicial, and legal, legal and academic institutions. So the most appropriate body in the state is the Supreme Council of Justice. In view of the fact that, pending the entry into force of the Ukrainian law amending the laws of Ukraine on the judiciary and the status of judges, it is appropriate to temporarily implement the order laid down in the bill of 30 May 2007, number 3586, and we also note that we are talking about the temporaryity of order, that this Act takes effect from the date of its adoption and that it is in force before the laws on amending the laws on the courts of Ukraine and on the status of judges are enacted and will continue to be implemented in Ukraine on the organisation of the judiciary. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u86	Thank you. Any questions? Is that clear? Now sit down, please. Does anyone want to share in the discussion? I think Igor Teodorovich made it quite clear, logically. I would like to remind you that we have really adopted a bill with you on the first reading, which was initiated by the President of Ukraine to amend the Law on the Judiciary and the Status of Judges, he passed two bills. They were accepted in the first reading only. We couldn't prepare them for the second. Since there has been an appropriate decision by the Constitutional Court, which we have mentioned with you, and the Constitutional Court requires us to settle this problem and this is our obligation, the Constitution requires us to do so. So I suggest, and since this is all clear and clear that this is temporary before the adoption of the second reading, or the adoption as a whole in the second reading of the Courtship Act, we introduce this kind of legislative temporary provision on, a more faithful provisional state of appointment of judges to administrative positions. Therefore, if there is no objection, I am voting as a whole, as the Law, under number 3586 of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice concerning the appointment of an administrative judge. Vote as a whole, as the Law, please support. [[13:26:04]] For 247 The law has been passed, I think we've done the right thing with you, Your Honor's colleagues, asking the President to sign this law so that we can have order in the judicial hierarchy. Yes, we would have to put it into the agenda and consider the bills that the Cabinet of Ministers is insisting on, as far as amending the laws on public procurement is concerned. We have a committee and a working group set up by the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko. Please. What is the position on this issue?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u87	Dear colleagues, a working group was established in January and approved by the Head of the Supreme Council at number 48 on the development and improvement of the Law on State Procurement, Work and Services. At the end of January, and more precisely, at the end of December 2006, we passed a law that entered into force on March 11, and that law is in force today. But given that there are many questions coming from places, many suggestions came from the Cabinet of Ministers, from the Antimonopoly Committee, from the Ministry of Finance separately, from other authorities many suggestions, from the National MPs 32 bills, and more specifically, changes to the law in force. So the working group of Parliament, which I am leading on this issue, is working to improve this bill. We have, in principle, drafted a single law, taking into account the maximum number of amendments and proposals that are being made, and we think that we might be able to go to that bill today. But the Cabinet of Ministers urgently requires that we withdraw from the interdeputy commission of three deputies, and from 11 members of the interdepartmental committee, three deputies enter what we cannot agree with. The Cabinet of Ministers insists that we withdraw from the subordination of the Antitrust Committee and hand over the Interministerial Commission, which we cannot agree with, because the Anti-Monopoly Committee is accountable and accountable to the Supreme Council, not the Cabinet of Ministers. So the Cabinet of Ministers wants us out of control of the use of state funds. The budget provides some 75 billion dollars for government purchases. And they have to be under control. We can't allow what's happening to VAT today. When the VAT is returned individually, those who should certainly be advised in what volumes, what areas, and how much VAT can be returned. This is what they want to do with government procurement. So I think we're going to work out these observations and the suggestions that we still have, and we think on Monday, on Tuesday, we're going to come back to this issue and we're going to put out a harmonized one-stop-shop bill, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u88	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, therefore, we see that only a few questions remain. Let's ask both Alexander Mikolaiovich and the Cabinet of Ministers who are involved in this group to do everything we can to review the bill on amending the law on public procurement on Tuesday. Because you know that around this bill, the law is enough and quite a lot of talk in the state, starting with the President, the Prime Minister, and at all other levels. So let's also say our word on this. Then I'm going to the task force, to the profiling committee, unfortunately, there's no committee there anymore, because he left Parliament, Poroshenko, who's the first deputy, please do everything you can to get this bill under consideration on Tuesday. Another reading. 3302 is a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements. Voropeyev, please, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u89	Adam Ivanovich, we had a discussion Wednesday when we listened to this law for the first time on second reading. There was much discussion as to whether there were new tax benefits. This discussion needs to be filmed. Take pictures of how. An analysis of this matter is needed. This analysis should be done by the Cabinet of Ministers. And he's willing to do it, and he promised to do it. But we need to see what the comparison is now and what happens when we adopt this law. That is why the proposal is so. Let us move this issue, get a document from the Cabinet of Ministers, they have already completed it, and then we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u90	All right, Yuri Mikolaiovich. True, I saw some analysis they prepared, but you don't think it's enough. I see. Then I propose that we vote to move this issue to Tuesday. Please vote. Tuesday. [[13:32:31]] For 245 Decision taken. Please return to the Cabinet of Ministers where this department is going, do everything we can to see it on Tuesday. Yes, second reading. Draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. [[on the formation and approval of prices/tariffs for residential services]] Registration number 2197. Member of the Committee on Construction City Building Housing and Utilities Demčishen Vasil Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u91	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, your opinion is proposed for a second reading of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Housing and Utilities. It deals with the setting and shaping of prices, housing and utility tariffs. We remember how many problems last winter caused what was not clearly defined by the legislation of State policy on this issue. This situation was quickly taken advantage of by the opposition -- BUT and Our Ukraine -- which raised a lot of noise around this problem during this period, led a powerful pyar campaign in the regions of the local council that controlled these political forces, made populist decisions that were not supported by economic calculations, not so much to improve the lives of citizens, but to undermine the already neglected housing and social economy and create even more problems for the active government. Sadly, they are no longer interested in this problem, and they are interested in politics and the struggle for power. Now essentially the bill itself. It is based on the draft law passed on March 14 in the first reading. A total of 44 proposals by national deputies have been processed. In particular, the Committee's meeting took into account the changes to paragraph 2 of Article 5 concerning the organization of the central authority of the executive branch on housing and utility issues regarding the development and implementation of state programmes in the area of housing and utilities. However, paragraph 4 of the same article on the development within the limits of the powers of the rule of law system for the formation of the treatment, approval and review of tariffs on housing services, standards, standards, norms, regulations and regulations in the area of housing and utility services, and on the operation of the current, capital repairs, reconstruction of housing assets. Article 32 is supplemented by a paragraph stating that not earlier than 30 days after the approval by the relevant authority of changes to prices, housing and utility tariffs, the executing producer shall report this to the consumer, shall provide appropriate justifications for the agreement of the relevant authorities and a new service agreement taking into account changes in prices and tariffs. The draft bill is supported by the Ministry of Profiles. The committee proposes to adopt the draft law in second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u92	Thank you. Second reading procedure. I refer to colleagues whose amendments are rejected, although most of them no longer want to make proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u93	Please don't disturb, you're no longer a deputy, don't interfere.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u94	Please don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u95	Don't bother.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u96	Please, Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u97	Thank you, Sergey Kuzmenko. I have three amendments, I'd like to stop at the first one first. This is amendment number nine. She's talking about it. That the central authority of the executive authority responsible for prices and tariffs, among other things, should rule out economic accounting. Why did I make this amendment? Because in article 31, paragraph 3, we are obliged to draw such conclusions. You can't set tariffs without it. So if there is a duty to draw conclusions, there should be the same obligation to draw such conclusions, otherwise the central authority of the executive body is not obliged to draw conclusions, and those who set prices and tariffs are obliged to obtain them. So in order to be consistent with the responsibility of one another, I propose that the responsibility of the central executive body be added.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u98	What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. It was discussed, discussed at the committee meeting, but did not receive the necessary support. I think your proposal might be for a session hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u100	I would like to vote on the ninth amendment of colleague Kuzmenek to the vote. Please vote. [[13:38:21]] 103, not supported. What other suggestions? None. Kuzmenko, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u101	Amendment number 18. I propose that since January 1, 2008, the minimum of which is 15 percent for the purchase of compressed gas and 10 percent for the purchase of compressed gas. So 15 and 10 percent instead of the 20 that stood there. This proposal is made with the offer of many other national deputies. In view of the fact that the increase in gas prices and the possible increase in electricity prices will necessarily take place, we will protect the most vulnerable sections of the population.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u102	Thanks for the offer. Indeed, this issue was also very much discussed, but the vote was not supported. But I think this proposal has the right to life, and I think the session room will support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u103	We're voting on the amendment of colleague Kuzmenko's 18th. Please vote. Vote. [[13:40:20]] For the 220. Who's in charge of voting? [[13:40:45.]] For 243 It's the 18th amendment of colleague Kuzmenko, please support. [[13:41:03]] For 245 Copy that. What else? Kuzmenko, 22nd Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u104	Thank you. Twenty-second amendment. In this amendment, I propose to limit the reasons for reviewing and increasing prices and tariffs. I suggest that the reasons for this are not dependent on the activities of the household. So it's, of course, force majeure. For example, the price of gas has increased -- well, you can't go anywhere: tariffs will have to be increased, but so that the disadvantages of the business that provides such services are no reason to increase prices and tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u105	The committee, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u106	The question was also considered. It wasn't supported, but I think it's also a session hall, I think we need to support this proposal, it has a serious argument.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u107	I'm putting to the vote 22 of Kuzmenko's amendment. Please vote. Take down the vote. Please, from the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u108	Deputy Minister of Housing and Utilities Bilyanski. Today, real tariffs range from 20 percent to 90 percent. If we accept this standard, those enterprises that do not cover political reasons, not economic ones, will not be able to raise them, but will be able to raise only the part that will be caused by the next increase in energy prices. What, they'll have the tariffs frozen then? You can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u109	Well, what's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u110	“The level of price increases, housing and utility tariffs cannot exceed the rate of growth of the minimum wage for the last calendar year”, that is to say, the amendment. I'm voting on Kuzmenek's amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u111	Please vote. [[13:43:21]] For 248 Copy that. All of Kuzmenka? All of them. You've done 75 percent of your work. Yeah, no one's insisting anymore? Then, taking into account the amendments that we have adopted, I put to the vote in general on the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Housing and Utilities. Please vote. [[13:44:08]] For 246 Copy that. By the way, to remind our voters, a bill that was quite active at the beginning of the winter season was fought by some supporters of the people. But they, they don't want to, they don't care about him anymore. A second reading of the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Regional Development Promotion, registration number 3109, is being considered. Vice-Head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plonikov Alexy Vitaliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, you are invited to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Regional Development. This bill is aimed at improving the legislation of Ukraine on the recognition of territories as depressed, namely the creation of a legal and regulatory basis for monitoring regional development indicators in the Republic of the Republic of Korea, the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the regional significance for determining areas as depressed. On June 5, 2007, the bill was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its first reading. In preparing the bill for the second reading, suggestions, and comments from law - abiding entities, there was no such thing as a legislative initiative. The Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council called for a bill of cheek notes. Thus, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy at its meeting on 13 June considered, prepared for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian law amending the Act on Promoting Regional Development and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be adopted in a second reading and as a whole as a law. Well, what I'm bringing to your knowledge, and I also suggest you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u113	Yes, of course, dear colleagues. No correction was received. Then we have reason to vote in favour of the Act on Amendments to Ukraine's Promotion of Regional Development Act, registration number 3109. The subject of the legislative initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. Vote. [[13:46:41]] For 235 The law is passed. Thank you. Assigning out - of - turn choices to individual rural heads. Kuzmenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, in the course of the election to the local self - government bodies, the Supreme Council has already approved 136 decisions on the appointment of out - of - turn elections. Such elections were scheduled in 113 villages, 13 villages, and 10 cities. The Supreme Council of Ukraine was again requested by nine rural councils to appoint out of turn the election of the country’s heads. The Kyiv region of the Fastov region of the Borov region of the village of Borov in connection with death The Volin district of Kovelski district of Velewsko village head, at your own request. The Kirovograd district of Ustiniv district of the Ingul village head at your own request. Kharkiv region of the Krasnokut region of Alexiyiv village according to its own wishes The Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Red Cross, is the area of the Honorary Rural Head at your own request. The Ternopil region of the Hussetin district of the Chabarov village of the country, at your own request. The Kyrovograd region of Alexandria, Trilysian Rural Head, in connection with death The Kyiv district of the Vassilov district of Trostensko-Novoselecko Rural Head at your own request. And the Mikolai district of Kazankov, the Kashir region of the countryside, in connection with the judgment of the court. We have considered these references on the committee. And, according to the documents, the question of destination. the appointment of the election was disrupted in connection with the early termination of the term. The Office of the Supreme Council, in connection with local authorities and local authorities, believes that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council that the election of these village heads be ordered on an orderly basis. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine “On the Election of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads”, the successive elections of the rural heads are appointed by the Supreme Council no later than 70 days before the election day. In connection with the draft regulations presented for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it is proposed that these village heads be appointed on Sunday, August 26, 2007. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u115	Thank you. A 3667 project on the appointment of the successive elections of the Borovian Rural Head, the Fastov region, the Kyiv region is under way. Please vote. [[13:50:01]] For 253 Copy that. Order 3667-1 — the appointment of the next election of the great village head, Kovelsky district, Volin region. Vote. [[13:50:27]] For the 250. Copy that. 3667-2. About the appointment of the intergovernmental head election. [[Kyrovograd district]] Please vote. [[13:50:59]] For 252 Order number 3667-3 is the appointment of the successive election of the Aleksivian village head. [[Redskut region, Kharkishte]] Vote. [[13:51:24]] For 256 Copy that. Order number 3667-4 on the appointment of the incoming election of the village head. [[Krasnoprekopsk region, Crimea]] [[13:51:53]] For 255 Copy that. Order number 3667-5 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Chabarov village head. [[Husatin, Ternopilska]] Vote. [[13:52:18]] For 247 Copy that. Order on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Trillian village head, project number 3667-6. [[Alexandrov district of Kirovograd]] Please vote. [[13:52:46]] For 254 Copy that. Order number 3667-7 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the Trieste-Nevial Rural Head. [[Vasilkovsky District, Kiev]] Vote. [[13:53:13]] For the 250. Copy that. Bill number 3667-8 is a decree for the appointment of consecutive elections of the cashier's head. [[Kazankov region of Mikolaiiv region]] Vote. [[13:53:40]] For 253 Copy that. Yes, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Urban Electricity is being considered, and the registration number is 3448. Vasilyev Alexander Andriyovich, please prepare Demchishen from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The bill amends the Law on Urban Electrical Transport in Ukraine with two components. First. It seeks to extend concessional tariffs on electricity for urban electricity transport. The City Electrical Transport Act was signed on 29 June 2004. One of its provisions is that, over the next three years, the electricity industry will be subject to the same electricity tariff as the population. [[Article 18]] This enabled enterprises to fully calculate the current use of electricity in passenger transport, as well as to partially reduce their arrears over past years. The cost of electricity is a price factor that affects the level of tariffs on transport and in the structure of tariffs is more than 20 per cent. In view of the loss of the utility in Ukraine, which is due to the lack of full compensation from the State budget for the transport of concessional categories, it is essential to continue to maintain the effect of the concessional tariff on electricity for the enterprises concerned. In view of the fact that the grace tariff has already expired, the bill proposes to extend it for a further three years. Secondly, the bill provides for State control over the dismantling of tram tracks. The problem is that there is sometimes an uncontrollable and unwarranted process of reducing the tram network, which is accompanied by the dismantling of the flight. At the same time, no one is thinking about the future or is aware of the cost of restoring the economy. There is no doubt that recovery is to be done. It is therefore proposed to enter into the law that the reduction of tram network and dismantling. local self-governance can be carried out in consultation with the central authority on housing and utilities, which should certainly strengthen monitoring of the processes. On the basis of the stated, distinguished colleagues, I ask that the bill be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u117	Yes, are there any questions? None. Yes, please have a seat. Bill and colleagues Vitenko is, 3448-1. It's almost identical to that. I think the Houseman's Committee will tell us what position these two are in. Because in Vitenko, the only difference is that Vasiliev has six years of this change and Vitenko has a permanent change. Please, Vasil Vasilovich, what's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u118	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, our colleagues Vasiliev and Vitenko presented their bills at the committee meeting. But it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill that Alexander Andriyovich had just read should be supported. The extension of the tariff for urban electricity companies at the level of the population tariff for another three years will allow businesses to work without accumulation of electricity debts. In view of the fact that local electricity transport is social and transports about fifty percent of passengers who are employed by the benefits, the State is not fully compensated for the loss of insurance companies, since in Ukraine there is a lack of allowance and subsidy costs that are estimated to be close enough. The Committee believes that in the next three years, the government will develop and implement new systems of payment systems in cities to compensate for real compensation. Or an address-aid mechanism will be put in place for citizens who have the right to do so. In any case, it's obvious that without the introduction of clear and transparent pay mechanisms, it's impossible to continue to talk about moving local electricity companies to a non-beatable level of work. On the other hand, the government is already working on new pricing and tariffs for electricity without cross-subsidisation. The bill of colleague Vitenko, of which Adam Ivanovich has just been told, proposes to introduce a permanent electricity tariff for these enterprises at the level of the population tariff, which will clearly destroy all efforts to bring order in the field. In view of the above, I ask you to support the decision of our committee and to adopt Bill 3,448 of the people's deputy Vasiliev as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u119	Yes, are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, does anyone want to come out of factions? Yes, there are no wanters? Then I put the vote in order of submission. On adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 3448 on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on City Electrical Transport on Urban Electrical Transport Tariffs. Please vote. [[14:00:30]] For 247 Copy that. Yes, we have a situation. “Prevention and countering the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means.” [[washing]] Registration number 2847 Jiga Mikola Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, invited. Your view is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime, which provides for further improvement of domestic legislation aimed at the removal of criminals, proceeds obtained by crime, their means of obtaining them and the fight against the financing of terrorism. I have repeatedly stressed in this room the possibility of adopting such changes and the appropriateness of supporting them by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The bill was developed by the State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine, in line with the Ukrainian Ministry of Education and the National Bank of Ukraine, namely those institutions that directly applied the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime.” The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on European Integration supports the adoption of the bill. As a result of studying the practice of applying the provisions of valid legislative acts on these issues, the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law are proposed. The bill takes into account the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the international agreements, the recommendations of a group to develop financial measures to combat money-laundering, the directives of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money-laundering and terrorist financing. Following the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a bill based on the right of legal entities to propose and amend proposals. The National Deputies of Ukraine, members of the Committee, are listed only some that come out of the comments made to him by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The State Committee on Financial Monitoring of Ukraine based on the experience and practice of activities in this area has provided a committee with an explanation of all the comments and suggestions made by the Chief Executive. These clarifications were quite convincing for the committee members, so the committee agreed. The Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration's comments were mainly about issues that might arise when applying the proposed draft, and the constitutional bill and other laws were not challenged. For example, one of the main management's comments on this issue is: “Concrete the concept of ‘transmission of funds’, since the proposed project defines ‘operation by account’. Such transactions include counting, decommissioning.” The position of HoldingFinmonitoring is as follows: “According to the project’s terms “transfer of funds” and “account operations” is primarily due to the need to establish some distinctions in their interpretation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u121	But we can vote, except I don't know what to vote for. Now, now, Mikola Vasilovich. Who saw the bill that we now have to vote on? The headman doesn't have it. Did any of the deputies see him? I didn't see. It's been distributed for a long time, but I need a table for the second reading. It was handed out a long time ago in the second session, because it's 2847. But we do not view it as the first reading, but we must accept it as the law. Please, Mikola Vasilovich, continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich and distinguished national MPs, I believe that this law must be adopted today as a law because it is essential for our country to join the World Trade Organization. If this law does not exist, it is highly doubtful that Ukraine will fall there. This is both a political and a legal aspect of the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u123	Yes, of course. Let's do it this way, dear colleagues. Sometimes we come to interesting things, but to vote what's not, I won't allow it, I'm sorry. There is no correlation table in the bill. We've got the Secretariat working fine. It's bad for the person who was supposed to submit it. So on Tuesday, prepare a comparative table, and we will consider this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u124	Where? Show me where she is. She's gone. Where is she? It's in. The draft law of the Cabinet of Ministers, introduced on December 28, 2006. We accepted it on our first reading. But there is no comparative table and preparation for the second reading of this law. Tuesday. Well, what do you say to vote, please? Do you see what you're voting for? See, that's good. I am voting on the adoption of the second reading of Law 2847. [[From the hall. We vote they're all accounted for.]] [[14:07:02]] For the
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-15-m0.u125	‘For’ – 3. I am very grateful to you, dear colleagues, for showing you that we are the Supreme Council. And let's talk to us, to the Supreme Council as deputies and colleagues working together and preparing a table, it doesn't make it very difficult. On Tuesday, I ask the committee to prepare this table comparatively, a bill for second reading. Yes, dear colleagues, we are working with you today, as never before on Friday, quite striking, but that is not all. I don't think we're going to be doing the "Various" today, but I'm going to read you a few more statements. Yes. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of the President's decree on the permanent cessation of the Supreme Council's powers of April 2, 2007, which considered it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation under political pressure, it is interesting to state my exit from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fifth vocation. Lopushana Andriy Jaroslavovich “April 18th. Supreme Council. In support of the Presidential Decree “On the Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council” of 2 April 2007, which considers it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council, I declare my withdrawal from the MP faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call. Kulczynski. Apparatus, national deputy Sigala, member of the MP’s “Block Timoshenko. ” In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Blok Timoshenko”, on which I was elected as a national deputy, my authority as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” And another statement, although there are two of them, is that one came to the Supreme Council to be taken out through the Supreme Council. And another is the Apparatus of People's Deputy Kuril Vitali Semenović, a member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Fifth Council, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of Block Timoshenko. In connection with the withdrawal from the constituency faction of the constituency, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” These are statements that came in the last period. In this regard, I would like both you and the electorate to know an interesting situation. The MPs have laid down and I don't want to work, but they want to rest at the expense of the Supreme Council and at the expense of those who pay taxes. Here's who wrote the petitions for travel in the sanatoriums of the Supreme Council. Some of them I will read: Mountaineer Eugene Alexiyovich, Humenjuk Oleg Ivanovich, Koval Viacheslav Stanislavovich, ordered the Lower Orlando, you know, this is the most prestigious. Zinovy Vasilovich, Zinovy Vasilovich. This is Haszuk Petrovich, Zubov Valentin Sergiyovich, not only ordered it, but already received it. Let him return the trip or pay the full cost. Kožemjakin Andriy Anatoliyovich is a well - known fighter against the privileges of MPs, Ljasko Oleg Valeriyovich, Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich, Shaga Evgen Petrovich, School of Andriy Vasilovich, Yavorovsky Vladimir Aleksandrovich, is not tired of claiming that he is fighting for human rights. Varyvsky Andry Mihajlovich, Constantinov, Zdunowski Vitaly Olegovich, etc. I mean, they write one, they do. They say the other, and they do the exact opposite. Dear colleagues! There is a request that we draft a bill on urban electric transport, if there is no notice, there really is not a great vote as a whole as a law. [[3448]] Is there no objection? Let's do it on Tuesday. Oh, come on, put the cards in, please, we've got three more minutes. You don't? Then on Tuesday, we will consider this law with you. Dear colleagues! Everything but the “Variance” has been with you today and more than different. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. I remind you that Monday is the Conciliation Council meeting, Tuesday is the plenary session of the Supreme Council. Ten o'clock. Good luck.
