ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please prepare for registration. Turn on the "Race" system. Let's register. [[16:04:42]] There were 407 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the evening session of the Supreme Council declared open. As you and I voted at the morning session, the issue of the election and dismissal of judges, registration number 3614 -- the Supreme Council Decision on the election of judges -- is now under consideration. Please take the seat of the committee. It's Christmas Eve.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u2	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished ones! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered at its meeting on June 1, this year, the appointment of the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the heads of the higher specialized courts for the selection of judges on an open-ended basis, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling 3614 of June 1, this year. Dear National Deputies! You are well aware of the procedure in which the judges vote is organized. Judges are in a guest bed. The committee recommends that judges be appointed on an indefinite basis: The Kyiv Court of Appeal is Masliy Vladimir Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u3	I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the procedure: they read the names, if anyone has a note, you raise your hand, we'll remove it from the general list, and then we'll vote separately. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u4	The Kyiv Court of Appeal, Masliy Vladimir Ivanovich; Kyiv's Court of Appeal – the Harnik of Ludmila Leonidivna, Paskina Svetlana Anatoliyevna, Smyrnov Larissa Georgieva; the local right-wing district court of Kiev – Bronovicko Oksana Valentinovna, Lisovska Olen Volodymyrovna; the local Dniprovsky District Court of Kyiv – Czech Natalija Anatoliyevna; the local Solomonian District Court of Kiev, Trubnik’s Andrija Volodymirovich. What's his last name? Trubnikov Vladimir Vladimirovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u5	Sorry, I'm a little distracted. Who's the point? In Czech?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u6	In Thessalomian.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u7	Trubnik's Andrija Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u8	Okay, okay. That's right, that's wrong. But, please, let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u9	The local Shevchenkov district court of Kyiv – Pavlenko Oksana Petrovna; the local Odessa District Administrative Court, Hlustin Jury Mihajlovich; The local farm court of the Odessa region - Athan's Tetjana Alexandrovna, Zovov's Larisa Eugenyevna; The local court of the Kharkiv region – Dolenczuk Dmitry Alexanderovich, Inte Tetjan Vyvoldovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, we do not have much of the comments and questions about the candidates presented except for the appointment of the judge of the local Thessaloniki District Court of Kiev, Trubnikova Andrija Volodymirovic. Then, with the exception of Trubnik, we vote in the order number 3614 on the selection of judges on an indefinite basis. Please vote. [[16:08:25]] For 296 It's been decided. [[Applause]] I invite Andrija Volodymyrovich Trubnik, please come to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u11	The factions? Please, by the factions. Come on, Trubnik, to the phone. Excuse me, to the microphone. Region Party – 179, “Block Timoshenko” – 35, “Our Ukraine” – 23, Socialists – 26, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 12. Who had a note? What about Las Vegas? Microphone Easy. Why, aren't you the master of your card? Give him a chance from the rostrum to tell him. Special thanks to Parliamentarianism.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have another question for Andrija Volodymyrovich. You are recommended for election as Judge of Solomon’s Court of Justice. This is the very court that, as we know, has recently repealed the President's decrees, renewed the position of Attorney General Piscoon, revoked the President's orders regarding the internal forces. Please tell me, Andrew Volodymyrovich, what is this unique court that, in violation of all the procedural legislation provided to familiarize itself with the material of the case, of the charges, makes such unlawful decisions? Who does that, don't you? And if your neighbors do, tell them that unless it's done by law, they'll have the President cancel it in one night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, calm down. Dear colleagues, calm down. My colleague Lazko is a member of the regulatory committee, and he's very often accusing the chairman of breaking the rules, and I'm surprised he didn't legally accuse me of giving him the floor without having the right to do so, because he's not registered in the session room. That's what he's talking about. I don't think the Troopniks have considered these decisions, and that's why the question isn't with him, and he's not the head of the court. I am voting for the election of the judge of the district court of Kiev, the district court of Thessaloniki, and I am Drupnikova Andrija Volodymirovic. Please vote. [[16:11:18]] For 281 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, come on. I know. Let us welcome the judges we have chosen and wish them to appear here in the session hall for only one reason, from appointment to senior positions. The draft Order 3614-1 on the release of judges is under consideration, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, distinguished ones! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its meeting on May 30, this year, the application of the High Council of Justice for the release from office of judges of appeals and local courts in connection with the submission of applications for resignation. In their statements, the judges indicated that they had written them voluntarily. The Justice Committee supported the above - mentioned application of the High Council of Justice and passed a corresponding draft decree under registration number 3614-1 of June 1, this year. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be released from office of such judges: the Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region of Zalimé Gennady Alexandrovitch in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Kondratiev Alexander Vasilovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Court of Appeal of the Plain Region of Dionysius Mikola Pavlovich in connection with the application for resignation; the Sevastopolski Court of Appeal of Economic Court of Chevchenko Natalija Mikolayevno in connection with the application for resignation; the local Ternian City Court of Dnipropetrov, Nartova Anatolia Dmitrovitcha in connection with the application for resignation of the state of health, which continued the duties of the local judiciary?? District Court of Zaporozhye region of Hadji Viktor Grigorovich in connection with the application for resignation; local Malovskiski??????? The district court of the Kirovograd district of Rudenko Ivan Fedorovich in connection with the application for resignation. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Yes, please, Gunner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u16	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. Dear reporter, in principle, in all the judges, it's pretty clear that people of such a solid age don't have any special questions. There is a question before Judge Kondratiev Alexandre Vasilovich of the Donetsk Court of Appeal, 1951, Judge, Head of the Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region. What are some of the reasons why, or why, the committee has not yet considered why a person of retirement age is making such an application in the prime of his life?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u17	In line with the application made to the High Council of Justice for discharge. That's the first one. And second of all. Our committee checks whether the application has been made voluntarily and whether the application meets the requirements of the law. All these requirements have been met, and all the rest is a personal matter for the judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u18	No, respectable colleagues, everyone has the right to ask questions and it makes sense. I think we should be glad that the miner is concerned about the judges of the Donetsk region. That's very good. That's very good. Yes. What other questions are there, clarifications? You don't? Then I'm voting on the number-by-number order, the motions for the adoption of Order 3614-1 on the release of the judges proposed in this order. Please vote. [[16:15:39]] For 266 Thank you. It's been decided. Yes. Helen Anatolyevna Netecka from the Rules Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u19	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! On instructions from the Chairman of the Efremov Aleksandr Sergeevich Regulatory Committee, as members of the Committee, we worked together with the staff of the staff to familiarize ourselves with the statements made by the people's deputies on the withdrawal from the MPs. Some inaccuracies have been identified as a result of this work. Correspondence of the handwriting and signatures on applications is not consistent with the oath. But once again, I stress that we are not an expert on handwriting. I therefore propose that the faction leaders be asked to clarify these inaccuracies. Next. Three persons were on a mission to France from 15 to 21 April. They are dated to the 18th. I mean, they were abroad, and they wrote the 18th. In some statements, the deputies refer to the President's decree of 2 April, which no longer exists. Some applications do not contain the names of the claimants, only the number of the certificate. And there are feedbacks from their statements. So these are forty-five inaccuracies. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u20	Now, wait. This is information. No questions asked. Who's in favour of asking questions about information, please vote. Who wants to ask a question because it's an exception to the rules, vote. [[16:17:57]] For-73 Unfortunately, the question had to be asked. Please, Kirilenko, one minute. Smile to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u21	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Honorable Colleagues and Honorable Voters! You and I understand that the coalition is panickingly afraid that we will be in charge within the framework of articles 81, 82 of the Constitution. But I would like to warn everyone, including members of the coalition, of taking on the functions of investigators. There is no public statement by the deputies of the faction “Our Ukraine” or BUT about disassociating or withdrawing the signature under the application. If you have other information, please make these names public. We don't have that kind of data. Let's be honest and follow the procedure you've adopted for us. In addition, I'm reporting that we're collecting statements that we've been asked by the chairman of the regulatory committee. And by the end of the day, we're going to need more than 150 applications. But what I'm trying to say is that you forced us to write a second application on the same subject so that we wouldn't let the Supreme Council get in the way. But it will be incomplete.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u22	I think Vjacheslav Anatoliyovich, that's good, because they're going to correct the inaccuracies that are there. So it's good that they'll be written. Please, Smythech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u23	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, let's be honest if we've made a decision that we agree that the elections will be early, let's be honest. Article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine speaks of the following, the first paragraph of the application. I'll tell you that, personally as a national MP, having the right to do so, he went to the Human Resources Department and read the text of the statement. According to the text, no MP today filed a personal application. What's the application? Wait, wait. Say it. All the deputies who filed the application were here in question as to the correctness of the wording under the Rules and Law. Applications were made. Deliberately, knowing that, according to the sixth part of the second 81 article of the Constitution and parts of the last article, the following article says that if a member of the Supreme Council resigns from the faction, then action is taken on the basis of what is going on at the assembly, the assembly decides to exclude the deputy on the basis of law. Knowing that there is no such law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u24	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u25	Let me finish. The faction "Our Ukraine" and "BUT" deliberately involve us in this process, knowing that a court of law will make a decision in their favor regarding the renewal of MPs. We don't need to be teased! Dear citizens, honourable citizens of Ukraine, if you would like to exercise authority, please write now on the basis of the first part of the second article of the Constitution, and there is no problem. I will prepare a ruling and the Supreme Council will vote on this decision today to deprive you of your parliamentary mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues, this is an interesting question, this is a new question for the history of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, let's put it off for now. Is Daniel ready to make an announcement? Daniel, are you ready to make an announcement? Please, Daniel. The procedure's fine, she'll talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u27	Dear colleagues, I would like to read out the application for the creation of an interfractional parliamentary association of Free Democrats. “We, the Ukrainian National Deputies, in view of the need to protect the values of freedom and democracy in Ukraine, the formation of civil society, the promotion of European standards of freedom and democracy, as well as the fact that in the Supreme Council, democratic opposition to the European model should function, we claim the creation of an inter-fractional parliamentary association of Free Democrats.” We are equally critical of destructive and illegal actions, both by the ruling coalition and by the opposition. We are principled supporters of parliamentary democracy, and therefore we stand firm against any attempt to destroy it. We believe that all crises in the life of the democratic and legal state must be resolved solely on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine.” Dear friends, and the last thing I'd like to say is this. As long as the National MP is not a member of either one Viti or another Viti Parliamentarianism will not exist in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u28	Could you announce the list? Could you announce the entire list? If it is not difficult, you may have a name that is part of the factional union of deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u29	Sadly, dear friends do not teach us anything. You know, this is the first time I've been out of this rostrum in a year, and I've been disrespecting you. I didn't give anyone the right to say anything about me there, dear friends. I can say that by my opposition behavior, starting in the year 96, I did not deserve the compliments that my associates have given me. I said that I'm not going to get out of BET or opposition, but opposition should be opposition, not some pocket tool to solve some of my special issues. [[Applause]] It's about whoever's involved in this interfractional thing. [[Applause]] You don't have to clap, dear friends, because you don't understand. When you clap, or if you clap, or if you don't understand why he's doing this because I think you need to speak out. As long as there's not a party badge in every place, there'll be a state flag, we'll have nothing to do with you. After all, do you have to decide, is it a Ukrainian MP or a party MP? And this is the main question that we have today. Regarding the people who signed the application and who are part of this parliamentary association: Danilov, Kureny, Vidrin, Pupkov, Stasov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u30	Yes, there is another interesting information. Dear colleagues, we continue to consider the issue of the order of the day. We have a further one, because we have never agreed to vote or not to vote in general on the People's Deputies' Elections Act in second reading, so let's move on as we explain the situation. Draft law No. 3607 – amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of People's Deputies. [[on late termination of authorizations]] My colleague Matvienkov, when he reported on the previous bill, said that he was asking us not to consider the project. And he had a separate proposal, a separate proposal for a bill that didn't support the session room, so we're not looking at the bill. Yes, draft decrees on the termination of the terms of office of the Central Electoral Commission and the appointment of members. No President's application, we're not ready to consider it yet. I propose to include in the agenda a draft law amending the Ukrainian law on privatization of state property. Registration number 3605. Dear colleagues, you find the card first, then. Once again, consultations are continuing, consultations are continuing. [[B in m in s a l in]] Once an agreement is found that there is no objection that we should vote in the second reading of the bills, we will surely put them to the vote as soon as such. But we need to be informed by faction leaders that they are ready to address these issues. Let them consult, let them consult. Yes, who's in favour of including this issue in the agenda, 3605, please vote. [[16:27:13]] For 244 It's on. Please report to the Bogchuk Bill Vasil Stepanovich. Get ready for Platinum. Please, Vasil Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, as soon as we're ready, we'll vote with you, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u31	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, has recently seen an increase in the number of lawsuits against farm societies included in the privatisation program for 2007. As far as stopping or suspending their privatisation is concerned. The grounds for violating a large number of court cases are the claims of prosecutors who are mostly designed to stop, or to halt the privatization process of such objects, to arrest them, to property enterprises, to ban any action by the State on this or any other enterprise. Such lawsuits destabilize the business, have a negative impact on the business reform process, which in turn affects the financial results of privatization, the filling of the State budget of Ukraine, the financial and economic activity of the enterprise, the involvement of effective investors in the privatisation process, and the impact on the investment climate in the state. Today we can give examples of this: this is a six-year legal draw from the VAT “Lugansktéplouple”, which has not shown that when it is calculated to sell it for 1.2 billion dollars, it has only been sold for 300 million dollars and another 300 million will be invested in production. This leads to reflection. The same technologies were used during the privatization of the Lviv device. Earlier, you remember well the privatization of “Criminals and so forth. How many are there on the same rakes? Today, in a similar scenario, events are unfolding with the Open Shareholder Society, and tomorrow, perhaps with other privatization sites. In which country is it accepted that, on the day of the sale, the court decides not to take any action against a public object on the approved list of privatizations? Who will compensate for the huge losses caused by the state’s lack of funds to the State Budget and who will compensate for the costs incurred by the bidders? And how absurd it is in this case that these damages compensate an enterprise that, for example, the Hmelnicko District Society, the All-Ukrainian Disability Organization, is registered in the village of Carpovci in the hops area to which the State grants the benefits and it is included in the same system, and which has also caused great damage. You know what we're going to do and what we've been through. That is why, by adopting this Ukrainian law, we will ensure timely and effective measures to prevent violations of artificial and expressly ordered decisions to suspend or halt the privatisation process, which will lead to the collapse of the privatisation plans, the filling of the income part of the Ukrainian State budget. And what I want to remind you is that for 2007, we planned a government budget of over 10 billion dollars. And these are the funds that have to go to different social programs, to protect our veterans and our pensioners socially. So by asking you to support this bill as a basis and as a whole. It will ensure the protection of the interests of the State, the rights of shareholders and effective and transparent privatization. It will help to improve the effectiveness of the interaction between the authorities and the Master Court, in choosing the best ways to resolve disputes related to the privatization process. And as a result, it will contribute to improving the overall socio-economic situation in the country as a whole. For the transcript, I would also like to read the technical regulations in the bill. In particular, the word “costs” and “consign”, I propose to replace the words “guarantee payments” with the words “consignments”. With regard to the project, I would like to say that the project obliges the party that claims to provide for a lawsuit by burying the act of state property or corporate rights of the State, at the same time as the filing of the relevant concern, to provide a document for the privatisation body with 100 per cent of the initial cost of the privatisation object, which is the subject of judicial review. In the absence of a cost-accounting document, the bill requires that the courts do not deal with appropriate lawsuits. The project provides for a recalculation into the National Budget of Ukraine of funds, pledges, in case of partial or total rejection by the court, of the applicant’s compliance with the call for proposals. In particular, in the event of partial refusal by the court, the privatisation body lists 10 per cent of the mortgage in the State budget; in the case of total refusal, 50 per cent of the mortgage is included in the State budget. I propose to adopt this law as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u32	Thank you. Are there any questions? Sign up if you have one. Yes, Easy found the card, please ask.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u33	Oleg Laszko "Club of Yulia Timoshenko". Adam Ivanovich, I have a question, not to report, but to you. Please tell me why you're not here today to consider on the last day of the Fifth Council's work the drafts that will allow us to hold elections, honest, transparent ones that you care so much about, why you don't put these bills on the table, but we're looking at some lobbying bills that please someone else. Or at least consider the Timoshenko bill on the alienation of municipal property exclusively on competitive grounds. Why Parliament is constantly reviewing draft laws that satisfy the interests of others, rather than looking at what is said to concern the whole country. That's for the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u34	I think you've been away from the hall for a long time and you've learned to work in session mode. You're looking at the agenda for today's session, and we're clearly following what we have. The representatives of your noble faction have also proposed that the Elections Act in the second reading cannot be voted on. We voted it, we went after all the questions that are defined in the agenda, so I'm not doing anything that isn't written down today in what we need to consider. Please speak of lobbyism.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u35	I would like to add that there was no private interest in the bill's authors, which is, I want to say first of all about myself. We stand first of all, the interests of the state, the interests of the state's budget. We also advocate the interests of shareholders' rights and effective and transparent privatization. We have repeatedly said that raids are coming from this rostrum. That the court supports one or the other. In order to make this whole privatization process more transparent, we proposed this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u36	Yes, please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u37	In general, I had a question more from the legal point of view of article 30 of the proposed changes. But in view of the constant circulation of these nonsensees about the lobbyist nature of our vocation, I would ask you, Vasil Stepanovich, to describe more specifically and in detail how your bill will allow you to protect the material rights of shareholders. The fact is, in raids today, they would have been impossible had it not been for the judicial branch of power to be actively involved, when it is through the court that property is taken away, severely violating the law, property rights of our shareholders. So clearly, the protection of public interests is understood here, it's a protection against an unscrupulous shareholder attack. Please tell us in what way a good shareholder will be protected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u38	First of all, we have set a deadline here, a ten - day deadline for applying for the privatisation of an object. Because of this, if anyone has a claim that he is willing to make outside demands, he should do so in ten days. Today, it is common in our practice that external requirements are claimed on the same day that privatization takes place. On the same day, the courts meet the external requirements. On the same day, property arrests are made. On the same day, arrests are placed on the bill, arrests are made on corporate rights and so on. And today we have set aside the ten - day deadline for the application, and we have also established that if the plaintiff would like to apply, he should provide this and his own, giving 100 percent of the initial cost of the object by setting up a mortgage. Then we can see that he's really going through it. And then, without bail, he arrests.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u39	Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the last fresh example of what they say. He was shown at the "Shitman" contest, I don't know what the amount is, but you can see it's solid. The court takes the decision of the Hmelnicki district that a disabled association in the Hmelnicki district also claims to privatize the facility. And since the disabled have not yet been able to raise a billion dollars to buy the package, stop privatization. It's me, so to speak, that I'm literally a fresh example, and I'm not going to tell you who's behind this, because it's not proven. Hence, it may be necessary to adopt similar laws. Please, platinum committee head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u40	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow MPs! In the Committee on Economic Policy, many appeals have been made, many requests for clarifications regarding privatization. We know with you that last year, the privatization plan was not implemented or budgeted for what was expected and which were part of the budget. This year, you and I have made a responsible decision in this room where 10.5 billion dollars from privatization should go to the state budget during 2007. They are also set aside for expenses. What we see during the five-month period of work. I'm not going to give any examples, because there's a lot of them, and you know them all very well. And the committee agreed to support the proposal of the drafters of this bill as an attempt to resolve these issues so that the privatisation process in the state would go on a state level, with state support. So I propose to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u41	Thank you, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Please sit down. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? No, it's not. Yes. Nobody else? Please, I see Valérie. None. Please, Suškevitch microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u42	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I just want to make a point. I've been particularly curious about the disability business, and I want to let you know that this enterprise has never been supported by the state, so there are no benefits, and this is a very unknown and incomprehensible enterprise. Just so you know, and it's said not to discredit those enterprises of social organizations of people with disabilities who work, help people with disabilities, hire them, and so forth. An absolutely unknown enterprise that we can't even comment on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u43	Thank you. Indeed, it is more likely that no one knows the business, but the court’s approval called it a similar enterprise. Yeah, more wanters, I can see there's no talking. So I'm making a proposal that takes into account what the reporter said, and I think that there is a serious clarification, that is, it really improves the law, that is to say, that it will enact a law amending the Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property on the Guarantee Payment of the Hostage in the event of an applicant being brought before a court about the suspension or termination of the privatization of objects or packages of shares. Registration number 3605. Please vote. [[16:43:16]] For 242 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to consider a bill that we do not have on the schedule of meetings, but I ask you to support us now in our second reading of Bill 3590, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda of yesterday's project. [[16:44:02]] For 312 A project that we voted in the first reading yesterday. Who is ready to report from the committee? Makeenka, please. Right now we're gonna hear the head, then we're gonna ask him a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u44	Do you have a verdict?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u45	I don't know if you've given up your ruling, so tell me what you've done in preparation for your second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the government, distinguished national deputies! The committee today discussed the issue of the second reading of the amendment bill to the 2007 State Budget Act, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers at registration number 3590. First of all, we propose to support the proposal of the Budget Committee, which was presented to the Committee on 30 May regarding the consideration of the bill. In particular, these proposals relate to an increase in the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by 15 million dollars. The Ministry of Emergency Affairs -- 60 million dollars for the Ministry of Intelligence -- 31 million dollars. It is also necessary to allocate 2.5 million dollars to the Supreme Council for the payment of the family’s insurance payments to the deceased national deputy Bibi Vasil Timfiyovich. This was noted in my May 31st report. In general, it is proposed to increase the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget additionally provided for in the Government Bill by 108 million 500 000 dollars for an increase in the corresponding amount of tax on the added value of goods imported into Ukraine. On the basis of these suggestions, Articles 1, 34, 38 and 1 and 3 of the Law should be amended accordingly. The committee is also invited to complete chapter 7 of the Final Provisions of the Law by paragraph four of the following content: “To establish that expenditure under the budget programme for the conduct of the successive elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies is incurred in the event of the appointment of the extraordinary election of the National Deputies not earlier than 29 September 2007”. The committee also takes into account the amendment made by Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, who was supported when the bill was adopted. I mean, chapter two of the bill reads as follows: “This law takes effect from the date of its publication, in addition to the provisions relating to the financing of the holding of extraordinary elections of Ukrainian national deputies, which take effect at the same time as the start of the electoral process to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the decision taken in accordance with part two of article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, subject to the legal confirmation of the invalidity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but not earlier than 29 July 2007.” Thus, we recommend that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt a bill under registration number 3590 as a whole, taking into account the above-mentioned proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u47	Yes, are there any questions? Sign up. Sign up for questions. Yes, there are many questions. Give me 10 minutes. Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u48	Please tell me, according to the budget supplements, you have focused on the fact that the election money will only be allocated if it is not held before 29 September. The remaining elections, if they can be held, will they be illegal or not need to be financed? That's the first question. The second question is: three million grevens are allocated to the reconstruction of the Chatter Palace of Donets. From what exact conditions or the most necessary stadium do we have a sports palace in Ukraine? And two million grevens are allocated for insurance payments to a deceased MP. We understand that. But is it not possible for the Supreme Council to make this money out of the redistributed and saved money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u49	Thank you. As far as I'm concerned. As far as your last question is concerned, the late National Deputy Biba Vasil Timothyovich. I ask for ethical reasons, you know, it can happen to everyone, everyone, and it's for the Supreme Council not to have a lawsuit, it has to be done, it's always done, it's just a life situation. With regard to your questions, three million stadiums are being allocated to the Shaktar. I can add that there are two million subsidies to the White Church, nine million going to the Blackwater Zone and going to raise wages — such proposals came from our fellow national deputies. And in order to, let's say, move with you in some direction, that's the result of a lot of political agreements. As for ".but not before 29 July," I think there are discussions at this point, negotiations on this issue. If we are to make progress, we need to consider it. That's the advice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, calm down! It feels like Lugansk doesn't like Donetsk, or "Our Ukraine" doesn't want a stadium there. Stoyan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u51	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear reporter, would you please tell us about these changes that will be in the 2007 budget, or the projected changes in the increase in social benefits, and what if they are? And the second point, although the previous ones have already been asked, I want to make it clear, if we're making this decision, and that's perfectly legitimate, I'm talking about allocating funds to so-called, or future consecutive elections, then if we're voting now and I think we need to make this a record, that means that if there's going to be, and there's going to be, and there's going to be, any day, any time, that doesn't mean that we're going to vote for funding? The Order, for example, went to July, or August, and the money went out. Is it clear then that we are giving this money into a clear date that is now being agreed upon and that the coalition is, in principle, inclined on September 30th, provided that we see 151 statements not fictitious, but the actual statements of our opponents?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u52	The budget committee in its proposals is clearly attached to the political arrangements that took place on September 30. And according to the Constitution, the elections are held 60 days from the date of the signing of the Order, the beating, on July 29 and September 30. As for the social benefits of your question, I have, in fact, been talking in my brief report today about the payments we're making here, but the previous report I've reported in detail. Unfortunately, these materials are in the Ministry of Finance to tell you figures, and we'll give you an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u53	Please, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u54	Please give the word to Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u55	Alexander Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u56	Thank you, Mr. Stepan. Dear reporter, I would like to support a colleague from the BUT faction who stressed. That there is no legislative basis for spending on elections. She correctly pointed out that there is no legislation. It's a decision. Why do we allocate money to the election? Where did you get the 30s, the 15ths? It's 100 percent right here, just like the whole BUT faction. Second, would you please tell me when the decision you report has been made? I'm a member of the Budget Committee, and somewhere you and I haven't solved these issues. And one more thing. I've been working all night, and today my assistants are working to supplement this law, and you're leaving me with rights, and now you're asking this question when we still have this time under the Rules. And lastly, 340 million DUS used in 2004, now almost 800 million. Why are we adding them?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u57	Your first question is where did September 30th come from, and I'll tell you: according to the political arrangements of the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, this date was sounded. And you and I, the entire Supreme Council of the Budget Committee, are quietly pushing the bill on that date. You know that very well. With regard to your suggestions, they have unfortunately not yet reached the committee. I think you can do that from the Supreme Council's rostrum, and in the closing word, we can take that into account with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u58	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u59	Please pass the word to Peter Prashenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u60	Powder, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u61	Reverend Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I have a few questions for you. Question one: how do you estimate the projected macroeconomic indicators that were provided for the 2007 budget project that allow the income to fluctuate into tens of billions of dollars? Is there a forecast, or is it necessary, and do you not think that in the next year’s budget resolution we have given attention so that similar examples are not repeated? Second position: the left-hand side of the yield. An increase in the income part of the budget, 365 million, if I'm not mistaken, is made on the basis of loans issued by the President, who insisted that they should be severely restricted under conditions of economic growth. And lastly, how correct is the formulation “on the basis of the legal basis before the elections”. Don't you think it's a formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u62	I will begin with the last, reverend Peter Alexiovich. As regards “legally correct”. The Supreme Council's lawyers, the Scientific and Experimental Authority, have called for this document. In their view, this is legally correct. As far as your budget proposals are concerned. The Budget Committee worked under the conditions in which it worked. Your proposals as heads of the Committee of Finance and Banks have not come. And today, if you want to shut down the process that started, you say so. If you want to make specific suggestions, make them in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u63	Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u64	Please pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u65	Simonenko, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u66	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Vladimir Vladimirović, respected, I don't understand how you did it without the Committee's decision, without discussing all the amendments made, you went to the rostrum to report. The coalition does not honor you, so to speak, that you are reporting this draft budget illegally. And he's on second reading. And in the second reading mode, we were filling out, a faction of communists, serious proposals that are relevant to the fact that the election campaign should not be carried out by voter pocket, but rather a plane that is actually sold to the President for an illegal purchase of 350 million bracelets. What's with all the money? Or 55 million have been set aside for foreign travel and travel of the President. If we have to support the village today, we have drought, food security will not be possible. And we need to deal with this whole thing. Do we not have the right, people's deputies, to seriously prepare this draft law for second reading? I think you need to get off the rostrum right now and stop this nonsense.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u67	Thank you, Your Honor, Peter Mikolaiovich. It's hard not to agree with you on many issues -- 350 million dollars, 55 million dollars. As far as I'm concerned. The committee met at 14 o’clock for 30 minutes, and there was no quorum. We called it a break. [[B in m in s a l in]] Here's the protocol, 17 signatures after the break.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u68	Adam Ivanovich! I ask you to give the floor to Alla Alexandrovne as amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u69	Please, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u70	I ask you to pass the word to Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u71	Alexandrovsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u72	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! At 14. There were several, seven people on the phone, members of the budget committee, including representatives from the Yulia Timoshenko Block and Our Ukraine, and there were no more deputies. We were invited to the conference room, we parted, and there was no quorum. There was no meeting of the Committee. We're here all the time in the Supreme Council, when we need to be picked up, we all have cell phones, we're picked up, we're not on the committee. Therefore, Vladimir Vladimirović, I conclude that there were no meetings of the budget committee. Once again, my amendments were made to me yesterday, officially registered in the office of our Committee on Budgets, not reviewed, and second reading. If we're in second reading mode, I'm the committee secretary, I didn't sign the protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u74	To put an end to this question! To put an end to this question!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u75	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u76	Adam Ivanovich! I request that this issue be stopped in the Parliamentary Chamber. I, the Secretary of the Committee, did not sign the protocol, there is no protocol and I will not sign any document because there was no committee meeting. Stop falsifying this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u77	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Don't shout. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, please. You can say something about this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u78	I have protocol in my hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u79	I'm addressing the representatives of our Ukraine, if you don't want to discuss the issue, I can announce a recess. And now I'm going to announce it, you're going to scream a little bit more. It's gonna be a break. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u80	Jehovah’s Witnesses, 5 / 1 07, number 28. 17 signatures from the 32nd.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u81	Please have a seat. Anyone who wants to participate in the discussion, sign up from factions, from factions. Personally, who wants to be in individual order? We'll take 21 minutes. Please, Bertash, the faction of the Party of the Regions. Please, Chechette's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the faction of the Party of the Regions supports the opinion of the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs – Maceinko Vladimir Vladimir Vladimirovich. And he asks, taking into account his proposals, to put a bill to amend the State Budget for adoption in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u83	Borszewski, Communist faction. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u84	Respectable people's MPs, respected colleagues and colleagues, including our anti-crisis and the coalition of people's unity, I did not expect such cynicism. I am Secretary of the Budget Committee. At 2 p.m., I rose to the third floor of this building to attend the meeting of our Committee on Budgets. Because yesterday I filed a written and it was registered on our committee with my proposals, which I heard yesterday in the hall. In particular, this meant that 55 million were allocated there for the purposes of the DUSI, the Secretary of the President and so on, I suggested that we use it differently. Once again, at 2 p.m., seven committee members attended on the third floor. It was suggested that we return to the Hall, we all parted ways, and there was no consideration of these issues. We're all back in the hall, and I've been here ever since. The bells didn't ring. My cell phone's on all the time. So I conclude that the meetings of the budgetary committee were not and in fact no amendments and proposals were considered. Representatives. Girnyk, representatives of our Ukraine and the Yulia Timoshenko Block at 2 p.m., also made a comment that the regulation was given 14 days to make proposals, amendments to draft laws, and they would also like to amend their amendments during that time. That was the content, when we were all present, of the seven deputies on the third floor of this building. There were no other meetings of our committee. So why don't you explain to me who wants to falsify the decision of the budget committee, who wants to tear 350 million apart and send what needs to the unknown? There is no legal basis for the Supreme Council to allocate money to the elections today. This violates the agreement between the Prime Minister, the President and the President of the Supreme Council, because they said that we were correcting the laws, composed of 150 deputies of authority, the President created a decree and legal basis for early elections. And at that point we only have the right to spend 350 or how many million with you. Why are arrangements now being broken, why are they trying to make a decision today in this room and in the end, who is behind all this? I demand that Adam Ivanovich remove this matter. There is no legal basis for considering this issue in the Hall. I insist on this as the Secretary of the Budget Committee. I did not sign the minutes of the meeting. There was no meeting of the Committee and therefore there was no legal basis for consideration of the matter in the Chamber, i.e. there was no consideration in the second reading of the draft law. I insist.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u85	Baranowski, please. Prepare Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u86	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and present! I also want to confirm the words of Alexandrovsky that my rights are also violated because I worked yesterday and we are still working today to make appropriate amendments to the law. I want to improve it, and I'm being denied that right now and I'm asking why I worked and now I'm being ignored. The other one. I want to say that there's some part of the faction of the region where I think Mr. MacKeenko has decided to drop the opposition, so let's put it mildly, because this law here is nothing, so he doesn't solve the election problem as it is written here, let's work it out as it is. And that's why it's a pitch, we socialists have never done anything, I'm telling you frankly, as I think I'm telling you the truth. Following questions. I'd like to pay attention to the faction of the Regions, you're a fairly principled faction, when your colleague took the camera journalist, you've taken it for quite a long time and basically evaluated it. I'm asking you to consider McKeenko's behavior on the faction, to give him in principle an assessment of why he falsified the decision of the Budget Committee, which was practically not there, and here he put it. And we hope that your actions will be as principled as they were in the previous, previous. And to the end. I still think that today you can't vote on the second reading, you have to give the MPs the opportunity to make their proposals and Mr. Chechtchev, I'm asking you here, you're supporting, I understand that in a conspiracy with MacKeenko, if you support a decision that wasn't made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u87	Grigorovich to Zhebrowski. Please, Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The “Our Ukraine” faction will vote on a bill amending the Budget Act. I think whoever's not talking, but, friends, as you voted in favour of the budget in the first reading and in general without discussion, there were not only the deputy, the secretary of the committee, but the first deputy head of the committee stressed that there was a remark, a denial, you didn't take that into account, you probably have two truths. But I think there are political arrangements, there are decisions on this matter, and there's absolutely right when we put this to a vote, and the charges to an address, I think, are invalid and incorrect. I urge everyone to vote in favour of the proposal proposed by the head of the Committee of MacKeenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u89	Kirilchuk. I've announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u90	Eugene Kirilchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I'm also a member of the Budget Committee. And the basis is yesterday's vote. Yesterday was voted in the first reading and practically, if there were not all the members of the budget committee today, I know that I should probably have just said, Vladimir Vladimirovich, that the others had been spoken to in the working order. And they agreed with those comments. And they voted. No one's ever stopped you or seen you or stopped you! You Learn to Conduct Yourself! Learn, I've never interrupted you. But. But there is one small observation. A little note. On our first reading today, we accepted that the election was held for ninety days, not sixty days. As a result, Alexander Alexandrovich Moroza’s amendment appears to need to be settled with the decision that we are about to make today. And virtually every member of the budget committee agreed to the comments, the little changes that had been made. Now about fifty - five million, with regard to state affairs, the administration of matters. I explain that yesterday I asked the Cabinet of Ministers for the accumulated debts of past years and property. And the applicants who have fled abroad today are asking the question that instead of these debts the courts will take away Ukrainian property, they need to support and pay off those debts. So that this property will remain in Ukraine. And that's why I think it's the right thing to do when we vote today. And the faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko supports this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u91	Gregory Smythech, please. Get ready for Kuzmanka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, here at MacKeenka, chairman of the committee, there are not very clear statements. I don't share them personally. Let's figure out what the boron of today's consideration of the issue is. First of all, I want to say that because of the opposition, which is blackmailing us every day, that if we don't make a decision within 12 hours, in two hours, in one day, in one day, in the night or in the morning, this violation of the second reading of the bill is taking place with regard to amending the budget. So I would ask all the national MPs, the first part of the opposition, or we would normally accept these changes to the budget within the framework of the current legislation, or we would not blame either side. Although I personally do, I personally do not share the changes that are being made to increase the cost of an article. I share the road, I share the medical thing, I share another article, but I don't share, including what Baranowski said about the additional funding of the State Administration and the U.S. President's Office. Why did the question arise today for 50 million? And why do we never have to ask that we have to allocate the 57 million, for example, to buy an extra gamma knife? Because you remember that we received a budget last year, and that was a separate issue. Let's take two gamma-lower costs. Why one? Why one? Why do we allocate to the Government? The government's management of matters, in my opinion, is being made available to the President, to ensure his activity. First, these funds are allocated in order to fulfill commitments and arrangements and so forth. So I'm going to take this position with respect to these 50 million left over, and I'm going to take these costs off, and I'm going to set them up to buy the gamma-lower. Unfortunately, I don't have a budget with me, I can't exactly say the code of this expense, but I suggest that it be reflected in the transcript and voted on separately. So, honourable Members, my proposal is this: considering what is a violation, and you and I should not go in for a violation, we should postpone voting on this issue to the extreme on the next day of our work. And allowing those MPs who have their own comments to the budget or have their own amendments to make an opportunity. The hall will then decide whether to support or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u93	Kuzmenko Sergei, please. He is followed by Gerasimük.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u94	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, honourable chairman! I'd like to ask you a few questions. First question. Please tell me, what are the choices we're making from the budget? I know only one date of election, which, from the point of view of law today, exists, is the election date appointed by the President's decree. There is no other election date from the point of view of law, not political agreements. So now we're running, stupidly funding the presidential election? That's the first question. The other one. Please tell me, there has ever been a time when we can fund the thefts that were committed during the past management of the State. In fact, we are now offered to pay from the budget for what has been stolen. I don't understand why this is happening or why the budget has to pay for it. Let those who have stolen be paid. Next. It seems to me that, well, I don't personally remember that in my parliamentary practice, when we don't just have a comparative table, we don't have the text of what we're talking about. When we have not been given the right to make amendments to the second reading even under a reduced procedure. When no amendment was discussed by the committee – not even the amendment of Alexandrovsky or the amendment of Baraniovski – he did not even discuss it. We are invited to discuss this directly in the hall. I don't think that's right. And the last. I'd like to ask the chairman. Adam Ivanovich, you know the Supreme Council Rules better than me and better than most of this room. It depends very much on the presiding officer in this case. From my point of view, you have no right to vote today with violations of the Second Reading Rules of the Budget Change Act. Don't believe this, sit still. I very much ask you, Adam Ivanovich, to abide by the Rules and rape the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u95	We'll do it ourselves. Gerasimjuk gives Grigorovich. Behind her is Knjazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u96	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Dear chairman, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. We certainly support the actions and the elections that have been made in the joint agreement of May 27, where the signatures of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council stand. I think they totally understood the signatures and understood what they were talking about. When there is good will, there is certainly good procedure. Think about the 2007 budget story, when, in order to overcome the President's veto and pay the payments that have gone up since the second quarter to our citizens, Parliament found an opportunity to hold a budget committee meeting very quickly in one day, to consider the draft regulation, which is why today we have an increase in salaries and pensions. So when there is goodwill, there is good procedure. When there is no good will, the procedure may continue until 2011. But we're consistent. The “Our Ukraine” faction is consistent; the BUTU faction is consistent. The opposition filed a motion yesterday. We took a series of changes to the budget in the first reading yesterday, and I want to stress that it's not just about the elections. It's about raising the wages for the medics, it's about raising the salaries for the regular militias that are looking forward to it. In view of this, I would like to point out that today the Ukrainian society is looking quite carefully at what is happening in Parliament, and it will believe and support those political forces that are consistent and capable of keeping the word. I urge you to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u97	Knazevitch. Behind him is Bondarchuk Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u98	Dear colleagues! Communists, socialists, if those accusations that have just occurred are your honest position, not your own pharisaism, step out of the coalition and go to the polls, if at, let's accept those constructive proposals that are being made together on behalf of the budget committee. There's a lot of talk about what seems to have been corrected by law today, you see, the article of the Constitution and increased the number of days to hold the elections. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a subject of constitutional regulation. No one can correct this kind of action by any law. And that's why I did the right budget committee when I saw this funding coming from July 29th, when the elections start, not September 30th, as someone suggests, because in a dog's voice, nobody needs this money. It's pepper. There's a lot of talk here about DUSU. Some have noted that there has been an increase in expenditure on DUS, but they forget to see that 770 million has been increased and for the Supreme Council, for you and me, in the first place. And they forget to say that almost 100 million were spent on broadcasts when here, in fact, the Supreme Council had no constitutional right to meet in this room. And the last. I'm reconfirming our position. We have shown absolute support for the bill that has been tabled, because we believe that we cannot continue to do so now, so we call for an end to the discussion and for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u99	Dear colleagues, lawyers should not use unverified information, not 100 million for April or for two months, only the 2007 State Budget allocated slightly more than 2 million dollars to the Supreme Council. So please don't use unverified information. Bondarczuk, please follow him, Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u100	Dear colleagues! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. When speaking on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, he also suggested not to push this process, but to act in accordance with the Rules, because we agreed to increase funding and allocate funds to the State budget for the return of the valueless savings by 320 million. The money, and the money that we're talking about today is 365 million, we could now send for these goals or instead a plane that buys or provides for the allocation of funds. So what we talked about is that we can go back to this issue again and again, and after the election date is finally over, when the decision of the Supreme Council is taken and so on, then we can make some changes to the budget and allocate these funds. There is no reason for us to put the chariot ahead of the horse. And for lawyer Knazević, I'm going to say that 110 grand is spent on broadcasting, broadcasting in April-months. The money from that fund is two million with the surplus that has been allocated for these purposes for the entire current year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u101	Yes, please, Alexandrovska, Tkachenko, Melnik to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! What's the room for today? It's about finding the last funds and sending them to no use -- for the future elections that someone's been drawn to -- or for Yushchenka to do nothing, she doesn't know what to do or whether Julia wants to be Prime Minister. I'm making another suggestion: let's come to a consensus, give up the election, but for that, let's make a deal: Parliament's leadership resigns. The Cabinet of Ministers is resigning. Five leaders are seated. I, uh, let's make a deal. The president's resigning. We're with you, you and I have a common language. Five faction leaders sit at the negotiating table.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u103	I know a lot about you. Five leaders sit at the negotiating table and you and I decide the fate of Ukraine. Today's Parliamentary-President State. You and I in Parliament will find consensus by deciding the issue of change in the Constitution, we choose the President here, we choose the leadership of the Parliament: four deputies and the head of the Supreme Council. We elect a new prime minister and five deputies from each faction, two to one. I don't think we're gonna have to spend any money on that. That's what you're talking about today. We do not need to rape the Ukrainian people. It's not going to come on September 209, because Ukraine predicts a 20-22 million grain harvest, that's 50 percent before it's needed. A hungry person does not think for the future. We need to remember, and if we have children and grandchildren, let us consider what we are doing. So, dear friends, I'm in practice, I've been in this Parliament and I've been in Soviet power, and in today's, well, I don't remember looking at the law, whether first or second reading and people's documents were not in people's hands, there would be no tables. This question has not been considered. They have not been identified and are being raped today because there is someone who the President has arranged with the Prime Minister. And who authorized the prime minister to arrange for the fate of Parliament? I think there are factions' heads, and they have to make deals. Or we could all get together and make a deal in this room. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u104	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Thank you. A miller, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u105	Peter Melnik, Party of the Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Please take into account the expenditure of the National University of the Ukrainian National Tax Service for 2007. and other construction and purchases of 8 million for the construction of sports buildings and artificial ice. Why am I suggesting this? Because I don't mind if it's in Lviv, Frankivsk, Donetsk, in other regions of Ukraine, but it's unfair and unobjective if Kiev doesn't have a single playground with artificial ice to train our future hockey players. This is the first sentence in a second reading. Although I want to tell you as the deputy head of the budget committee, I also don't like the practice of his meeting. But I don't think we should go up to Vladimir McKeenka's villa, because, believe me, there's an appropriate influence, and I also understand what consensus is and what political agreement is. If each member of the faction, we are 186 Party of Regions, will have an opinion, and it will be different from the Prime Minister's or faction manager's opinion, it will never be. I think now, of course, we have to make a decision, and 60 days before the election, of course, we have to fund the election, but maybe take a break, maybe just a little bit more time, and look at it, and somewhere, let's take into account the wishes that national MPs have, they have a full right to do that. That's my offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u106	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Two factions take a break to reconcile positions on the vote. It's a faction of communists and socialists. That's why there's an 18-hour break.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u107	Who will come out of the faction to take a break? But before that, I would like to make up my mind, because 18 hours later, I have five minutes. We need to consult you about the continuation of the sitting. I'd like to support the offer. I know. That's true. But let's make an exception like this. I'm putting to the vote a motion for a continuation of work, because we were hoping that we would be able to do it sooner, please. We need to consider literally three normative acts that we have already adopted and all. I ask you to support the proposal to continue the meeting. I'll bet you a vote. [[18:08:02]] For 339 Offer accepted. 339 votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u108	That's what I'm talking about. Two factions took a break, and I'd like to make a statement. Peter Mikolaiovich, you can go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u109	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction, Simonenko. Together with the socialists, we took advantage of the regulatory norm and asked for a break in order to agree on some issues relevant to the situation and it related to the financing of the electoral campaign and budget changes. We reaffirm once again that our colleague, the Chairman of the Committee, had no right to go to the rostrum and report on changes to the budget, as this was not agreed upon, no meeting of the Committee had not been taken into account, all wishes had not been taken into account and all proposals had not been prepared for second reading in accordance with the Rules. This further exacerbates the situation, as there is an enormous cost of electoral financing, financing the agro-industry complex and financing the illegal costs incurred by the additional Secretariat of the President. In this situation, we have viewed this as an attempt today to blackmail and pressure us, the people's deputies, when Ukraine's preparations for the elections are being discussed. I urge once again to consider and vote immediately on those draft electoral laws that we have considered and voted on, and only then consider changes to the budget. We have no other way of doing this, because all the rest will only result in one party taking advantage of, first of all, the fact that the budget has been approved or adopted, the budget change, this will allow for the financing of the choice and will continue to hold elections on a non-existent basis under the old law. It will thus be denied to Parliament to resolve the issue that has been brought before us. I also wish to call upon all of you, distinguished colleagues, to warn you that this will inevitably lead to a widening of Ukraine's divisions. I am categorically addressing all of you, I warn you from such actions, when one part of Ukraine will protest against another part, when the political forces, using this opportunity today by manipulating Ukraine through the President's decrees, will create preconditions for civil opposition and possible consequences. The Communist faction therefore warns that we will not vote again if the Budget Change Act is considered. We warn, and we approach our colleagues in the regions, this can have the most serious consequences in the activities of the Communist factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u110	My colleague Smythech is asking for the word, for the same reason, isn't it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u111	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. At least five times I'm entitled to that. Alexander Alexanderovich, the whole point is that the law that we are currently considering is fundamentally affecting further action by the opposition. It points out once again to all deputies that, today, opposition forces, the national deputies of the BUT factions and our Ukraine have not given their powers in the manner they declare. That's the first question. The second question. They've done very, very well, you know, how these thimbles, they've taken one step -- they haven't done the other. They're, on the basis of those statements that they made, given that we don't have a law, a law that regulates order, a order to form powers as national deputies in accordance with part six of article eighty-first, so I think that if we accept today's budget changes in the part of the financing of the non-recurrent elections, we'll make a mistake. This is my deep conviction. Because if they wanted to submit their credentials, they would have written their statements, according to part one of the first eighties of the first article, and there was no reason to discuss them today. And I suggested, I suggested yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, that let's, if there's any doubt, put this vote in a bag. Sadly, that was not my opinion. So I'd like us not to blame each other here, so that we don't suspect each other here, let's do it the following way. Dear opposition, we agree to go to the polls. We, we, we support the leader's decision, we support it and tomorrow's follow-up action. But please do not make us hostages in your situation. Because you want to do something wrong. After all the actions you've been waving about, I'm sure you don't have consistent actions, and you don't have a mind of your own. So I suggested that if you have doubts, let's vote in private, by secret ballot, let's vote on your power of attorney. You don't want to do that. So if we can't bring this issue up and tie it up with the budget to fund the early elections, I think we're like a coalition that hasn't done anything illegal today, it might become hostage to your destructive forces, to your actions in the future. And this will lead to unforeseen events in our Ukraine. That's why the Supreme Council can't, can't just take your word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u112	I'm asking for your attention. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize at the outset, because I have been excused from the meeting, from the holding of the sitting. I thought he was supposed to be acting on procedure. He should speak on the subject under discussion. And he touched on a very different question. That's the first one. Secondly, it can express its thinking, but it can be true in assessing the behavior of colleagues, because someone understands, let's say, actions like that. It's not worth just saying, I'm not going to comment any further, but you have to be restrained from speaking. It's not good anywhere. Here's the situation. I realized that it was not a simple situation to vote for the budget. But it is needed when the election law is passed. So if you didn't insist, let's maybe we should adopt the election law first, and then we'll consider it. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. Kirilenko. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u113	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. We would like to conclude the consideration of changes to the State Budget Act by deciding the issues that Janukovic's government has insisted on, and they are reflected in the budget and the issues on which the opposition to the financing of the elections has insisted. I think we can't interrupt the consideration of one question and instead start looking at another. Moreover, the Rules forbid it. Thus, we could peacefully conclude the consideration of all the issues covered by the package of political compromise signed by President Yushchenko, Prime Minister Yanukovic, and Head of the Supreme Council. With regard to the statements that many have so often mentioned, we can assure you that we are doing things as publicly as possible. Applications registered at the Supreme Council's Office and already have the determination you've made to be at the Secretary of the Supreme Council. Today, we received from the head of the regulatory committee a statement that we should write a second statement, but this time in the form of a notice of withdrawal from our MP factions. We do so by the end of the day, more than 150 other applications on the same subject, but no longer under the name of a statement, and reports of an exit from the MP’s faction will be transmitted to the presiding officer at the meeting, and appropriate meetings will be held. So we ask you, dear colleagues, not to invent what is not really there. No withdrawals of signatures, no dissuasion of statements from our colleagues, nor from the faction “Our Ukraine” nor from the faction of BUT, because we are making a conscious political decision, and we are also making it because it is one of the points of the joint declaration on the resolution of the political crisis that has been signed, including the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we ask you to put to the vote a question about the State Budget Act and a public, open vote to determine who, according to their beliefs, and some may oppose their own convictions, but vote in favour of overcoming the political crisis in Ukraine and achieving the great political compromise, and who still wants to destabilize, fights because in this regard its political capital and in this its political tradition, and political habit. Please vote on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u114	Please, come on. Would you like to sign up? Please sign up. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's a motive. Don't be nervous, please, everything will be fine. Eugene Ivanovich. [[B in m in s a l in]] Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u115	Simonenko, please pass on the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u116	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The logic behind the consideration of draft laws is that the First Supreme Council should amend the Electoral Act. We have prepared these changes. There are two options for this project: we vote, we approve by majority, we give this law to the President for signature and we open the legislative framework for the adoption of changes in the budget already. At the same time, co-workers from BUT and our Ukraine are laying down their powers and providing the President with a basis for issuing a decree, although I would like to invite the Central Electoral Commission to look closely at those tails that remain, i.e. those that have not been deleted, how to proceed, because CER cannot violate the laws and there would have been the following powers to appoint. Therefore, only after the adoption of the Electoral Act will it be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u117	A miner, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u118	Eugene Gorenik, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you of yesterday's situation, when both the Communist factions and the other factions said, "Show me your statements." If you show your statements, we'll vote for the budget and other legislative acts. Before that, there were other requirements, and they all continued to destroy the agreements reached between the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today there is a statement, and in time there will be a written submission under the name of the Supreme Council. But I'm sure some of those who don't want to stabilize the situation of Ukraine at all will be looking for new reasons. I urge you not to look for reasons not to make a case, but to vote in favour of the proposed draft budget that meets all the requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u119	Right. Eugene Alexiyovich, you mean everyone here wants to settle the situation. I'm sure of it. Tim, you see, Tim does. Rich guy. And I'm not commenting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u120	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, I did not want to talk about the creation of 151 MPs, but I will start with what my predecessor finished. As far as folding is concerned, this is our first case in practice. But publicly it must be done irreprehensibly and publicly. That's the first thing we want to do if we want the experiment to be clean. Legally, it must be done without further questions. As far as our next question is concerned, we are actually in the process of considering the budget. But in my opinion, the situation requires us to move forward and move away from the rule of law now, when we can give in to the rules and vote in favour of coming back now and considering the electoral law, and then, after the decision has been made, we are already considering the budget. Any decision by Parliament is legitimate if there are 226 votes. Please put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u121	Volga, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u122	Basil Volga, Ukrainian Socialist Party. Dear friends, well, as we know, haste is good in two cases, everyone knows where. I suggest we take our time, especially now with this kind of decision. And I suggest you, Alexander Alexanderovich, take a decision now and give an order to the Central Electoral Commission. We know that for the 45 applications that are now being filed, there is no problem that the CEVC will immediately start preparing for replacements for those who are now emerging from the respective factions and in exchange for the lists below. And then keep working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u123	I do not comment, I have to answer, I have no right, and Parliament has no right to give such an order to the CEVC. CTC works for, based on the law, and there's a procedure for when and what to do. So the breach, that's before, has to go on for a long time. The convention is yet to be held, to be determined and so forth. This, let's not get involved in this. Now he's going to explain everything because he took the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u124	Oleg Valeriovich Ljashko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u125	Valeriyovich, I'm sorry, you haven't been here in a while, so have I.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u126	I would like to remind a fellow socialist that, literally two days ago, the Supreme Council adopted a decision that, according to which the Head confirms, waves, according to which the MP continues to retain all authority until there is an appropriate decision by the assembly of the political party by which he sat down in this room. So take your time to give instructions to the C.V.C. And I'd like to remind those who don't want to support the budget, that, apart from cats for elections in this budget, there are also funds for ministries and departments, for support to agriculture, for raising salaries for law enforcement workers. So you're sabotaging improvements in the social situation in the country, those who call on you not to support the budget. And with regard to the proposal to stop considering the matter and to start looking at something else. Well, it doesn't allow that rule. So let's do it if we want compromises.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u127	I'm asking for your attention. Oleg Valeriyovich, first of all, I'm sorry that I mistitled you as a parent, but it's probably from the excitement. And you said wrongly, The head is not wavering, but it is nodding its head. I see. [[B in m in s a l in]] Next. Please. In this discussion, there was only one proposal to be determined by voting. The rules allow us to make changes to the procedure. And so the proposal was made in this way, we're going to now vote on the election law, we're going to bring it to the President, he's going to sign it, and we're going to immediately vote on the budget. [[B in m in s a l in]] I'm betting on voting this proposal as ad hoc -- changing the procedure. Who's behind this, please make up your mind. [[18:26:40]] For 289 Thank you. [[Applause]] Therefore, the issue of the Second reading Electoral Law is under consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u128	Dear colleagues, are you ready to tell us from the committee that you have been able to make corrections to the second reading? Not ready. Yes. If there is no such thing as an apology, the honourable colleagues, who are more loyal than that, excuse me. I'm making a proposal for adoption as a whole as a law. [[B in m in s a l in]] Correction? None. There are no amendments. Yeah, sign up from factions one by one, now let's exchange thoughts. Please, Zybenko. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u129	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our constituencies. The point is that we have now taken a decision and have now returned to the consideration of draft laws on amendments to the Electoral Act. This is a fundamental issue that needs to be resolved. What are our different approaches? We, the coalition, insist on making elections legal so that they exclude the possibility of using technologies to falsify elections. To that end, our differences are precisely that the coalition insists on using the elements of the voter register, using the ability of the elderly to vote, and we respectfully respond to their will, against the use of the electronic system, against the use of the same resilient talents, for 50 percent of the vote, that is, we do everything to protect our electorate, to unite Ukraine, to create preconditions for unity and Ukraine, and to the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u130	Bubba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u131	I ask you to pass the word to Sergio Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u132	Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u133	Matvienkov, Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, I have already spoken with a report on this bill, saying that this law has been worked on by a large group of our colleagues, and this is the law, the fruit of collective work, where we have weighed everything we had, all the negatives, all the positives that were in the elections. And today, when we are considering this bill, we must understand one truth: the coalition has agreed to hold elections, that is the concession that the coalition has made. And the opposition must understand in these circumstances that the electoral law must be drafted in such a way that we are confident that there will be no forgeries, there will be no floors, there will be no things that will then give rise to doubts that the elections have been conducted in an honest, open and transparent manner. Which may not be settled in this law, I cannot understand one thing; today I was told about the pensioners, about the category that this could be home forging. Recall the last elections that have taken place in this category of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u134	Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u135	Please pass the word to Joseph of Vine as a member of the Working Group.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u136	I'm handing Joseph over to Winski as a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u137	As I understand it, Adam Ivanovich, and the agreement on certain concessions under this bill are not accepted and we have to vote on the option voted in the first reading. I'd like you to make that clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u138	You're done. Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, as soon as the whole country saw a press conference with the leadership of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister, where they told international diplomats about the implementation of the agreements, they talked about the statements we had made, about making us. entry from the faction and demonstrated the civilized European performance of agreements in our country. Today, what is happening in this room now shows the opposite. Someone was afraid that they were going through the procedure. The procedure is just submerged, because first reading and second reading, for example, I want to make an amendment right now, which will totally make us out of falsification, otherwise I can't make it out of the voice in this room. This is where my colleague Matvienkov spoke of democracy. Look at article 84, it was edited that according to claims and medical advice that a person can't move, now it's just a statement. We have a traumatic epidemic in the country: 20 million will write that they have broken their arms, legs, or heads.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u140	Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u141	Dear colleagues! If we were really thinking about people here right now, about our voters, about the people of Ukraine, and not about our ambitions, we would decide that today we have raised wages and pensions, and we would add to them the 370 million more that we want to give to the elections. We'd give people away, and then we'd ask people if they needed our choices with you. Sadly, though, we are not so wise, so we will not make such a decision. So we have to make, at least, a decision that would ensure that as many people as possible make their will when the elections are held. So we have to do everything we can to get as many people involved in the elections as possible, and that is why we have to vote in favour of the project proposed by Mr. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u142	Yes, respectable colleagues, discussions, or communication are over. There is a proposal to vote in the second reading, but without the amendment of colleague Matvienkov, which was that a national MP who voluntarily stepped out of the faction had been expelled from the National Deputies, had no right to wander in the new lineup. This amendment is not taken into account. No change from my colleague, Matthew 3606-1, second reading. Please vote. [[18:34:42]] For 252 The law is passed. The factions. In general, it is accepted. Yes, 183 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 7, Our Ukraine – none, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 12. Yeah, let's get it signed now. Two factions are asked to announce a recess for 30 minutes. Dear colleagues, the BUT factions and our Ukraine. There's a break in 19 hours for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u143	So I'm going to the factions that have applied, do they have any need to make a statement? Kirilenko Viacheslav? It doesn't, does it? No, no, Lyushko has granted his requests for today. Dear colleagues, we have voted with you as a whole on the Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies”, on amendments to the Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies of Ukraine”. Now, literally in a few minutes, this bill will be signed by the President. But in order for everything to be signed there, they say we have to vote one more sentence, now I'm going to tell you what. The second part of article 84 should be supplemented by the following sentences: “The form and requirements of such a statement shall be established by the Central Electoral Commission.” It's about the form of the statement that the electorate wants to make to vote at home. Then, if there's no objection, I'm putting this amendment to the law. “The form and requirements of such a declaration shall be established by the Central Electoral Commission” is to supplement the second part of article 84. Vote. Vote. “Our Ukraine”, support. [[19:19:00]] For 330. This amendment has been accepted. In general, this amendment has been adopted. Then, with such an amendment, let us once again vote on the law as a whole. We're voting again, 3606-1. [[19:19:31]] For 254 According to factions: 184 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko - 9, Our Ukraine – none, Socialists - 29, Communists - 21, non-fractional - 11. With that question, I guess we've already figured it out. Now, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, we have today, if I'm not mistaken, now I'm going to find, in the agenda, wait, wait, wait, there'll be everything you want, Vyezivsky. I'm used to seeing you here, closer, I'm used to seeing you closer. You and I were left with questions related to the state budget. But you and I have voted that after the law is signed, we will go back to voting on this issue. So we have to wait for a while. We will need to take decisions on the termination of the terms of office of the Central Electoral Commission and on the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission. This will require the official submission of the President. It's on approach. And we have one more question that we can now consider if it's your will. And by the way, the Minister of Internal Affairs asked us to support him in this matter at least morally in this case. This is a draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on road safety. Registration number 3171. Who's in charge of including him? With motive? Wait. If you have a car, please log in with the procedure, and write down the factions for reasons. Only those with cars. Yes, please, Ivan Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u144	Our faction, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, will vote in favour of including this issue and for making a decision. And that's why I call on both coalition colleagues and other concerned national MPs to support the inclusion of this issue and to make the right decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u145	Thank you. Kilincarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u146	Adam Ivanovich, please pass the word Kravchenko to Nikolai Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u147	Cowchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u148	Dear colleagues, I am the President of the All-Ukrainian Union for Drivers' Rights. The eighth time he tries to get away, I have deep respect for Tushko, and now it's quiet using his illness, and he's been pushed up and taken into account, 10 million drivers. Ten million. Listen, we're going to the election. If we pass this law now, it'll be court-martialed and cursed, look. I'm addressing you, let's shoot it at all. It needs to be accepted as a road traffic code, which deals with road construction, road repairs, road management and so on and so forth. This law wants to solve these problems one-sidedly, just to select rights, to punish them and so forth, and so forth. That's not gonna work. That's why I'm talking to all of you. Every political force must be responsible in this regard. There's no way we're going to let him deal with it today, you don't have to do that. That doesn't mean I'm against Tsushko as a person. But to him. The problem is, I said that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u149	Tell me what the problem is, just so briefly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u150	Legislation on this issue should be adopted in a comprehensive manner. It will not solve the problem of tightening up only on the road to bribes, only the rights to pick up on the road, i.e. to restore the rights of those GAIs that we removed by Parliament in 2002, although I am in favour of tightening up. But the financing of roads has not been resolved, road repair issues have not been resolved, and a number of issues have not been resolved that are currently hindering the road itself. That is why we are in favour. The Code on Road Traffic has been here for the fourth year, in the secretariat of Parliament, and is not for consideration, although it is already outdated. So let's postpone. We do not need to consider it now, but we will consider it already or a new composition of Parliament, unless elections are held, old but only within the framework of the Code of Road Traffic, i.e. integrated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u151	Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u152	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. It's a rare case, but I must say that I am completely in solidarity with my colleague Kravchenk, who represents the Communist faction. First. Adam Ivanovich, I'm sure we don't have the right to go to other bills right now, we have to do everything that belongs to our common obligations. Now, about this bill. Trust me, we're going to be a completely feudal country if we go back and give the auto inspectors a chance to take the fines themselves. Look, we've been cursed for a long time. Nobody needs this, we're turning the auto inspector into a cashier who's supposed to be on his way to the cashier who's charging his pockets. I'm totally in solidarity with Kravchenk. We need to take a comprehensive approach to this bill. I'm like a big-time driver driving around all the time, and I'm just trying to make this really hard on our roads. But this bill is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u153	We haven't put it in the agenda yet. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u154	Dear colleagues, the traffic rules are written not only by blood but by the lives of our people. We must include this bill in the order of the day. What are you afraid of? Listen to this bill, listen to the demands, not the inventions of someone who heard about this bill, but who didn't read it himself. Look at our newspapers, listen to the TV, every day as a front. Says sawnformbureau: 10 died, 20 died. Colleagues, and among us are people, our former MPs, who are no longer among us, died in car accidents. What's the matter? The roads remained the same, the cars were increasing, the speeds grew, and I firmly deny the total accusation of the hajis. DAI takes bribes. If a person has a small intestine, do not give, do not break, and if money is demanded of you, judge with them, but these bills must be considered here and listened to. This is about making demands more stringent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u155	Officer Volodymyr, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u156	Vladimir Stretović, Christian-Democratic Union, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, the history of this bill is quite long, as two bills were considered by the committee in due course: the Cabinet of Ministers bill, the law of the People's Deputies of Mendoza. And as a result, at the committee meeting, it was agreed that these bills should be harmonized, produced, and submitted for consideration. The committee has not considered this question at this time and has not taken a decision on this matter since there have been proposals from many interested authorities, research institutes, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and this harmonized project has not yet been considered. So on the matter of procedure, Adam Ivanovich, please take it off, please, it cannot be considered, because it smells like this lobbyist nature and cannot be considered today. And in the process of normal activity, we will prepare it and really help GAI, DAI, to put order on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u157	Yes, dear colleagues, the proposals for inclusion in the agenda have been discussed. Indeed, fellow believers, each one of you, understands what is being done on the road. But they've already done the procedure. Your factions have been, they've been. Well, if it's very important, please, Viennese microphone. I told Vyzyvski the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u158	Vladimir Viezowski, "Our Ukraine". I would like to express my concern at the conduct of the Supreme Council Secretariat, which forces the national MPs who have already written the statements, and in the following report that those statements are announced, to go one more time and sign a document. Perhaps it would be better to accept the norm that notarized my signature at once and that I did not run 10 times and signed that I refused to work on that disgraceful Supreme Council of the Fifth Call. I ask the chairman to address this issue and give instructions, not to force the next, 10 times to run the national deputies to sign about what they have already done and to testify to their signatures publicly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u159	Don’t worry, the more we write, the less we make mistakes. It's a practice, that's a good thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u160	make fun of the national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u161	People's deputies are people like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u162	I don't. Give me a hint of what.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u163	Ladies, let's give you an indication that this is your signature, but let them see if it's your signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u164	How many times do I have??
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u165	Dear colleagues, you're still not hearing what you're hearing. I can't hear you either, because I know you won't say anything right now. Yes, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, you are treated with respect, everything will be fine. We talked about it, we talked about inclusion. Once again, before the vote, please let us take full responsibility for this matter. Unfortunately, there is no order anywhere in our country, starting with the highest authorities of the state, ending up on the roads. The decision that it's a decommissioned state auto-inspection is not eliminated, the lack of legislative weights of influence actually leads to the fact that we have as many people dead on the road in one year as we have in the war in Afghanistan in 10 years of Soviet Army soldiers. Every year we lose so much on the roads. And of course, one of you who is abroad, and judging by the fresh faces of some, I can see that very few of you could have gotten that kind of dose of sun, he knows and sees what order there is and how there really, less people die. So I would very much like to, let's put it into the agenda and look at this question. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3171, draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on road safety. Please vote. [[19:32:58]] For-38 More than ever, the session room is overly polished, unanimityful, so that there is still no order. The factions? We can do factions. The regionals are 6, Block Timoshenko and Our Ukraine are solid, socialists are 28, communists are 1, non-fractional is 3. So what else do we need to consider? We'll consider the budget. Today, we will definitely consider the budget. We have here, honourable colleagues, draft decree number 3615 on the attempt to assign the Council of Judges of Ukraine authority over the appointment of the courts for administrative posts and the dismissal of those posts. With motive? It is easy to give out of motive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u166	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I believe that to consider the ruling that Adam Ivanovich has just handed down, as well as the next 3616 – Order of the Supreme Council “On the permanent cessation of the powers of Ukraine’s national deputies in relation to their applications for withdrawal from the MP’s factions”. [[You just listen to the name!]] Read the Constitution, advise the author who makes the decision. So is the draft ruling on the Council of Judges. So how does the Parliament take anti-constitutional decisions on the appointment of judges to administrative positions, you can see that. And when the Council of Judges of Ukraine conforms to the Constitution of Ukraine, the order for the appointment of judges for administrative positions, you see, they are not allowed. What are double standards and double philosophy in the parliamentary majority? Absolutely, in my opinion, unacceptable things don't have to be pushed against the court system by similar orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u167	Absolutely, I don't need to. But it is not necessary for the judicial system to assume powers that are not conferred on it by the Constitution. It's to each other. Yes. Please, I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3615. Please vote. [[19:35:51]] For 246 The question is included. Who will report? Koleshnenko, please, the author of the bill, Vadim Vasilovich. Please. Go ahead, report the application, the determination is all you think is necessary. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u168	Dear colleagues, distinguished Adam Ivanovich, are honourable deputies. A statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the attempt to assign the Council of Judges of Ukraine authority over the appointment of judges for administrative posts and the dismissal of judges. On May 31, this year, the Ukrainian Council of Judges adopted a decision authorising itself to decide the question of the appointment of judges to administrative positions in the courts of general jurisdiction and their dismissal. On May 31 and June 1, this year, the Council of Judges of Ukraine appointed more than 100 judges of the General Court to take office. The procedure for the appointment of judges to administrative posts in the courts of general jurisdiction and their dismissal from these posts are regulated by the Ukrainian Court of Justice Act in article 20 of the powers of the Council of Judges of Ukraine to decide the question of the appointment of judges for administration in these courts and the dismissal from office is not provided for. The decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16 May this year on the constitutional application of the Supreme Council of Justice on the official interpretation of the law of part five of article 20 of the Law on the Court of Justice concerning the appointment of the head of the court, the deputy head of the court by the President of Ukraine recommended: The Supreme Council of Ukraine is immediately in the legislative order to settle the issue of the appointment of the judge as the head of the court, the deputy head of the court and the discharge of that office. To implement the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on 30 May of this year, established a provisional order for the appointment of judges to and discharge from the posts, according to which the mandate for the appointment of judges for the administration and the release of judges from these posts is given to the Supreme Council of Justice. The Constitution of Ukraine states that judicial self - government acts to address the internal affairs of the courts. As an organ of judicial self - government, the Ukrainian Council of Judges under the Ukrainian Constitution is not authorized to decide on the question of the appointment of judges and the dismissal of judges. The mandate of the Council of Judges of Ukraine is to make recommendations on the appointment and dismissal of judges and cannot be interpreted as having the authority to decide these matters. A particular danger is the composition of the organs that unlawfully assigned themselves the authority to appoint and release the leaders of the courts. The Council of Judges of Ukraine is made up of three quarters of the judges and their deputies, who, by adopting the decision of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, gave themselves the authority to appoint and release themselves to violate democratic principles by means of a judicial system, thereby depriving the people of Ukraine of any guarantee of control over the legality of the administration of the courts of Ukraine. The Council of Judges, which on May 31st conferred authority on the formation of the administration of the courts, is in fact controlled by the head of the Supreme Court and represents the interests of one political power by which the head of the Supreme Court was delegated to that office. The usurpation by the Council of Judges of Ukraine makes the entire system of courts of Ukraine a hostage and a servant of political struggle and political interests. The actions and decisions taken by the Ukrainian judges are a gross violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, which violates the constitutional system. Draft decree on the attempt by the Ukrainian Council of Judges to assign and relieve judges of their posts. The Supreme Council decides: to approve the statement I have just read from the Supreme Council of Ukraine concerning the attempt to assign the Council of Judges of Ukraine authority over the appointment of judges for administration and the release from these posts to the Ukrainian people, the authorities and officials of Ukraine, the international community. The other one. To view the appointment of judges for administrative posts in the courts of general jurisdiction and the dismissal of such posts as not valid, approval is a decision of the Council of Judges of Ukraine of 31 May 2007 and all decisions of the Council of Judges of Ukraine concerning the appointment of judges for administration in the courts of general jurisdiction and the dismissal of such posts are adopted in accordance with this order. Third. To recognize the absence from the Council of Judges of Ukraine, which is provided for by valid legislation, of the power to appoint judges to the administrations of the courts of general jurisdiction or to dismiss them, to determine the order for the appointment of judges to administrative offices in the courts of general jurisdiction and for the dismissal of such posts. Four. To establish that the term of office of the judges, the deputy heads of the courts, whose terms of office as of May 16, 2007 was extended until August 1, 2007. Recommend to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine immediately to give a legal assessment of the fact that the Council of Judges of Ukraine has delegated authority over the appointment and dismissal of judges. Six. The Supreme Council of Justice will ensure that the third decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 16 May 2007 is implemented in the case of the Constitutional application of the Supreme Council of Justice on the official interpretation of the provision of section 5 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary of Ukraine and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 30 May 2007 of the current provisional order for the appointment of judges for administrative posts and discharges. Honorary colleagues, as the author of the bill, propose that the draft decree be supplemented by paragraph 7 of the following content: “To appeal to the judges appointed to the administrations in contravention of the position of law in law by the Council of Judges of Ukraine to refrain from assigning authority to the heads and deputies of the heads of the courts of general jurisdiction. This supplement is in writing I transmit.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u169	Yes. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes. Let's take six minutes. Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u170	Please pass the word to Volza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u171	Mr. Wadim! Basil Volga, Ukrainian Socialist Party. Say, please, really, what you're reporting right now and what we're looking at is for Ukrainian citizens, and for many here in the hall it's, well, a shock, it's legal nihilism, but it's impossible to explain otherwise. We already have one of those artists who periodically assigns one or the other powers, then subordinates one or the other, subjugates the other, debauchery, the soldier plays it, in one word. So tell me, please, in what way did this happen, how did this become possible, or was the situation previously analyzed? Why did this happen? Who allowed it? Who is this, and who is to be held accountable? As far as I can tell, even legal and criminal responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u172	Thank you for asking. In our ruling, we recommend that the Attorney General's Office deal with this issue, for in our statement we have already found out and determined that this is the usurpation of power. The Constitution and the Court of Justice Act do not provide for such powers. And most of all, the heads and their deputies will be appointed. This, well, no state in Europe could even imagine. Indeed, it is the usurpation of power. And the main thing is, unfortunately, as I personally believe, this extension of legal nihilism will lead to the collapse of state institutions, state governments, state institutions and state institutions. It's just so scary that this could happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u173	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u174	Dear reporter, well, it's not the usurpation of power. Because that's your point of view. And this is a clear execution of the Constitutional Court ruling that you refer to since May 16th. Because if you read it very well, there is no mention of the possibility of transferring such powers to the High Council of Justice. This is your position. And you expressed it at the time of the adoption on May 30 of the appropriate decision, which, by the way, is the subject of an appeal. And I hope that the court will give her a legal evaluation in the near future. And the same fate awaits that determination. Because from the point of view of the Constitution, it's allogeneic. Because of that, I have questions. Please refer to the authorizations in accordance with article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, with which the Higher Council of Justice has the authority to appoint judges and judges for administrative positions. With regard to the Constitutional Court’s decision, it says that it is an integral part of this decision that such authorization is passed on to the judicial authorities. I want to call you this organ. This is the Council of Judges of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u175	There's nothing in the Constitutional Court's decision that you're referring to. This is the first time. Secondly, it's clear to everyone that people can't assign themselves to administrative positions. Third. I would like to remind you that we are forced to take a temporary position in connection with the fact that the Law on Sudokustry, which was originally proposed to us by Mr. President, has been rescinded. But we can't leave the state and the judiciary branch without leadership in the administration. That is why we stated in our decree that this is a temporary assignment. And that's what's important. The Supreme Council of Justice in this sense does not have such opportunities as heads and deputy heads of the courts. You do realize that when I appoint myself, I will decide for myself the question for the political power that appoints me. We want to develop these concepts for the sake of the law. And that's the main, legislative, legislative support for democracy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u176	Sass.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u177	Thank you. Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear reporter, you can conclude from your report that there is no limit to absurdity. And so I have nothing left to remind you of the rules of the Constitution: Article 6 of the Constitution, according to which the state authority is divided into legislative, executive and judicial authorities in Ukraine; 19 that the authorities of the State act within and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. And I'd like to ask you this. What law stipulates that the rulings of the Supreme Council are mandatory for the execution of public authorities, I mean, apart from the Cabinet of Ministers according to 113 articles? And why is your information a judicial branch of power, the prosecutor's office should be guided by these orders? Where is it written? What normative act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u178	All public authorities must either be forced to act in accordance with existing legislation or be obliged to act in their work. This is the first time. It's different. Based on your logic, we must now leave the courts without administrative authority. So in the May 30th resolution, and today, we say once again that this order is temporary. And you understand that very well. But you support another order that will be subject to one of the political powers that you represent. That's what we're up against. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u179	Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u180	Dear author, Vladimir Yavorowski, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. That document you proposed for me is an absolute legal act, which is provincial and if you want to be adventurous. In speaking, I said that I am not a proponent of what it is that the President should appoint to administrative positions in the judges' courts. We know what happened at Kuchma when, in fact, Medvedchuk was in charge of everything. I am absolutely against having the Justice Council today, where you have an absolute majority. I want people to hear why this is an adventure. You don't make a bill, you make a decree. You would have to take the relevant note and turn the entire court system upside down. What do we do, do you report it to yourself or not? Let's work on the law where people choose judges, people don't get it wrong, and then let the judges choose judges from their own environment for administrative positions. We will not vote in favour of this adventure, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u181	Thank you for asking. I support you in that the President does not really have the right to appoint judges to the executive office. This is the first time. It's different. I agree with you that no political power has the right to usurp this issue. In this sense, the High Council of Justice is a collective body, and it is not subject to any political power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u182	Thank you, sit down, please. And I wholeheartedly support the request of my colleague Yavorowski, who, indeed, judges should be chosen by the people. [[Applause]] The people need to be chosen, then there may be a bit of justice in the courts. Please, are there willing to share in the discussion? Besides, are they still desirous? Is it? Sign up for the factions, please. Who else is individual? Give me 10 minutes, not for Easy to get here, 12 minutes. Please, Matthew. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u183	Matthew Valeria, faction of Party of Regions. I don't want to say right now that we have a usurpation of power because the President has appointed, if you see, the Attorney-General, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence, and appointed judges, although that is not the point in the Constitution. This ruling, which was proposed by me and supported by the Supreme Council, was temporary because we had a legal collapse. At this stage, we have 360 judges who have to take positions or heads or their deputies. What is happening to us at this stage? We have, as you can see, the Council of Judges is appealing to my ruling at this stage, deciding that they themselves may appoint judges or judges to administrative positions. At the same time, article 130 of the Constitution, paragraph 2, states that it is judicial self-government, that they must deal with internal affairs. At the same time, the head of the court still deals with procedural matters, such as the dismissal of judges and their appointment to the case. I therefore believe that I remain in my position and insist that the Supreme Council of Justice is the only non-politized body at this stage. Let us go back to the Charter of the European Parliament, to the recommendations of the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, that the appointment of judges should be made directly by an unpolitized body that has nothing to do with the legislative, executive or administrative authorities. This body is the only body at this stage — the Supreme Council of Justice, which has representatives from the Public Prosecutor's Office, from the highest legal authorities, from the judges, from the Supreme Council and from others. Therefore, I believe that this ruling must be supported. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the fact that it is temporary before the existing legislation is brought into line. And now we need to get out of this legal collapse that's happening in the country. That's why I'm addressing you again, that's an coercive measure, and I'm asking you to support this order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u184	Thank you. Yavorowski Wolodymir. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u185	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear legislators of Ukraine, I would just like to remind you that a few days ago you and I were actually standing over the gap. We were smart enough to get away from her. We walked in, I mean, "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko," and "Our Ukraine," we went into this hall and came back to have, having heads on our shoulders, and having a conscience at heart, to agree on some things, to clear up those barricades that had been removed all the minefields that were before us, and having accepted normally what we agreed to go to the elections. You see what's happening today, and I really want the people who listen to us to understand us. We wanted to do that, and we want to do it today, but look what's going on in the hall. In fact, none of our very smart, very calm, very calm offer is accepted. We, you voted on the bill that 50 percent of people should go to the polls, but no one thought that there was no responsibility in the Criminal Code that people would be campaigning for no one to go to the polls. You're on your own. Everything we do, it's made with fatal errors, it's done in haste, it's done unprofessionally, emotionally, I don't want all the bills to be generalized, and so you can go around every one. We can't take a budget to finally get these pathetic coins to be added to people and to allocate money to the election. Now we're taking an adventurous absolute document. I want people to know who are listening. Yesterday, Medvedchuk was reinstated at the Justice Council. You can imagine this monster who's now back there and who's going to make it. You know that, I'm not inventing anything and I'm responsible for my words. Plus Kiwalov there is, what, you know his biography and you know his work at CBC. What have we turned into today's Justice Council? What is the Justice Council, where most have “regionals”? And today they vote, we can't stop it, people are good, about it. to give all things, all the appointments of judges to the Council of Justice. People, you won't find anywhere in any court of law, the truth after that, everything will work for one single political power, get back!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u186	Etukhov, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u187	I give the word to Chechchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u188	Check microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u189	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear friends, we have been with you for a month and more as we have witnessed the President's Secretariat printing decrees, dozens and hundreds. The President had blindly signed them in violation of the Constitution on the appointment of judges. When the Constitutional Court made it clear that the President had exceeded his powers, this was not his constitutional function — the appointment of judges — that was immediately overtaken by the Council of Judges of Ukraine. It is no secret, however, that the Council of Judges of Ukraine is also controlled indirectly with the Banking Secretariat of the President. I mean. Again, in the last few days, several dozen, even hundreds of judges, have been appointed. Why is this done? Everyone understands: in order to make the maximum “objective” in the coffeehouses, the maximum “honest” in the coffeehouses, the maximum “transparent” in the coffeehouses of the election. It is done to ensure that the judiciary plays a clear role in the field of one political force, namely BUTT and Our Ukraine. It's a mess, that's understandable. Therefore, it is absolutely right to rule that the possibility of creating a judicial pool is prevented, if that is so expressed, which will play in the field of one team and subjugate. What is the purity of the election? Therefore, in my view, it is quite right in the decree that in the Supreme Council of Justice, I will not say who personally goes in there, there are authoritative people, respected people, scientists, legal practitioners, until you involve us in the early elections. We would probably have passed the law. That's how the law is sometimes passed. You've dragged us into the early elections, gentlemen of the opposition. So let's at least take a normal ruling now, let's say, I repeat, the President's Secretariat from the creation of managed wallets, which can distort the elections accurately, so that it doesn't happen after that that people will vote for one another and the authorities will vote for the other. And people will say, "How did it happen?" And through the courts, a fully-elected picture will be put on top of the head. I therefore call on everyone to vote in favour of this law and indeed. The Supreme Council of Justice will allow this right now for normal judges, objective judges, I repeat, if the appointment is to go through the Supreme Council of Justice, it will at least enter, those judges will be appointed who will not challenge the political forces, but who will work for the State and at least ensure the transparency and integrity of the elections. The fact that the critical mass of judges, who will play for certain political forces, already exists, has been appointed by hundreds. Thank you. I call on all members of the people to support this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u190	Yes, please, Baby. Please come to the rostrum, perhaps for the last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u191	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The citizens of Ukraine, the voters need to understand what the controversy is about. We are considering a draft decision by a member of the Party of the Regions who proposes that it be illegal for the Council of Judges to appoint and return these appointments, the right of appointment to the High Council of Justice. Recently, it seems that yesterday or the day before yesterday, the High Council of Justice was filled in, according to Mikhailo Vasilovich, an authoritative lawyer, Viktor Volodymyrovich Medvedchuk. I think that Ukrainian citizens still remember what this authoritative lawyer did. In addition to the authoritative lawyer Medvedchuk at the High Council of Justice, he is no less authoritative, the former head of the Caver Court, Mr. Kiwalov's creation, the equally authoritative lawyer Renat Kuzmin, the attorney general's deputy general, the equally authoritative lawyer, the ex-genuine Piscon and other authoritative lawyers. So, actually, everything that's going on here is talking about not being allowed to usurp power, in fact, the Party of Regions wants to usurp power in the judicial branch of power itself. Through the High Council of Justice, they want to influence the appointment of judges to administrative positions, and then, if there is an early election or not, they want to deal with electoral cases or, for example, raid cases such as Lugansk's courts, especially the Donetsk region, suffering from raid decisions on companies in Kiev, in enterprises in other areas. This is especially the sin of judges in the Donetsk and Luhansk region. That is why the Yulia Block of Timoshenko will not vote in favour of this decree. In particular, paragraph 3 “Decree the absence of judges from the Council of Judges to appoint judges”. And show me where the High Council of Justice is authorized to appoint judges for administrative positions or to release them. There are no such powers. Or, for example, the fourth paragraph suggests that the term of office of judges whose terms of office ended on May 16 be extended until August 1, 2007. Where does the Supreme Council have such authority to continue the term of office of the judges? There are no such powers. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, as the supreme legislative body, should act in the order and manner provided for by law and the Constitution. And that's not what you're supposed to do, so don't take on any wrong powers. Of course, it's in vain to prove something here, because it's like a pea against a wall, when they've made this decision, they're going to vote on it. But I think a perfectly adequate response is going to be when you press charges against the court, to find it illegal not to allow the coalition to usurp even the court's power. This is the kind of urgency: the economy is put under, and now the courts want to take it. Fear God, People Good! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u192	Yes, you were almost restrained in the rostrum. Yes, Zabolotick, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u193	I would also like to speak in support of the proposed decision, and all my arguments have already been made by Mikhail Vasilovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u194	Okay, thanks. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I am putting to the vote the Order “On the attempt to assign the Council of Judges of Ukraine authority over the appointment of judges to and discharge from administrative posts”, adding paragraph 7 of this content, I will read again: “To refer to judges appointed to administrative positions in contravention of the current legislation by the Council of Judges of Ukraine, to refrain from assigning authority to the heads and alternate heads of the courts of general jurisdiction.” I'll bet on it as a whole. Vote. [[20:03:35]] For 249 It's been decided. Yes, dear fellows, we have to break up on another occasion. So once again the algorithm of our next action. We are now awaiting the signature of the Electoral Act, the amendment to the election of the national deputies. Then we gather, we vote on the amendments to the 2007 State Budget Act, we vote on two Central Election Commission rulings, and maybe we'll finish the job today. I mean, it's not a job, it's an evening meeting. Thus, a break is announced for a period of time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u195	Yes. Please take your seats. Invite the people to the sessional, oh, I'm sorry, the national deputies to the session room. No, they're human, they're human, they're human, but they can come in too. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. According to our plans in the voting process, we have you, I don't know if the faction leaders, the factions heads have informed you, but each one of them is personal. He saw with his own eyes the Law “On Change of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies” signed by the President of Ukraine. I mean, the President made those promises that the law would be signed. So you and I have reason to believe that the issue of the adoption in the second reading of the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 is being implemented, taking into account what the Head of the Committee of Profiles has been saying here, taking into account how we formulated the position of the End. Since we have discussed all these issues more precisely and not once, so, with your permission, I am putting to a vote, I am putting to a vote the registration number 3590 - on the adoption of the second reading and the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007 - taking into account the proposals made by the Professional Committee and, in particular, on the procedure for the introduction of this law into force. Please vote. [[21:58:12]] For 380 The law is passed. And that's how you could see it. Well, by factions. 174 – Party of Regions, Block of Timoshenko – 106, “Our Ukraine” – 64, Socialists – 3, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 12. Thus, we have two more issues that are not yet implemented. You've been given the appropriate draft regulations. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration today of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision 3617 on the permanent termination of the terms of office of the Central Electoral Commission. Please vote. [[21:59:28]] For 410 Please, the representative of President Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u196	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Let me introduce you to the content of the President's presentation, which consists of the following content. With a view to implementing urgent measures aimed at resolving the political crisis by holding successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the first part, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 31 prima. The Ukrainian Act on the Central Election Commission introduces an application for an early termination of the full membership of the Central Electoral Commission. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u197	Dear colleagues, are there questions for the rapporteur? None. It's all clear. Okay. Thank you. Sit down, Roman Mikhailovich. I'll bet. Aren't we going to discuss it? Nobody insists? Then I put to the vote a decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the term of office of the Central Electoral Commission be suspended at number 3617. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 31-1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, despite the reasoned submission of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: Abort the term of office of the entire Central Electoral Commission. In this regard, release from office of members of this commission: Davidovich, Donchenka, Dubovik, Zavalevsky, Kachura, Mager, Ahendowski, Pisarenko, Rajkowski, Stavniczuk, Usenko, Black, Chupachina, Sheludzka The other one. It is noted that the guarantees provided for in article 30, part three, of the Ukrainian State Service Act, are extended to members of the Central Electoral Commission released in accordance with paragraph one of these decrees. Third. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Please vote. [[22:02:26]] For 409 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's thank the members of the Central Electoral Commission. [[Applause]] First of all, both the head of the Central Electoral Commission and the deputy head, Davidovitch Jaroslav Vasilovich, and the deputy head of the Central Electoral Commission, Stavniychuk Marina Ivanovni, and others, who have carried out these duties for as long as they could. [[Applause]] [[Applause]] We did well, no doubt, but they probably did not make it to the new list. We need to get into the agenda and consider the decision – the 3618 Decision on Appointment to the Central Election Commission. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[22:03:53]] For 415 The question is included. Please, the representative of President Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u198	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! According to paragraph 21, part of the first article of the 85th Constitution of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine submits the appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission: Astachov Tamara Valerievna, Danilevski Yuri Mikolaiovich, Donchenka Yuri Grigorovich, Židenka Igor Grigorovich, Lukash Tetjana Leonidivna, Meger Andrija Josephovich, Ohindovsky Mikhail Volodymyrovich, Pisarenko Anatolia Arkadijovich, Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich, Usenko-Black Jana Ivanovni, Chupachina Alexandra Mikolaiovich, Šapovala Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Sweden Yulia Viktorovni, Shelestova Alexandra Mikolaiovich and Šeludka Valerija Evgenovich. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u199	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. There's a question, yes. Yeah, come on, six, 10 minutes, Chukmasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u200	Dear Roman Mihajlovich, I had to be with my colleagues at the Constitutional Court's meeting and, as it became clear, Vladimir Mihajlovich Shapoval then said it was his swan song. What's it gonna be today, his presence on the electoral commission, what's this song going to be?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u201	I think you yourself understand that Vladimir Mikolaiovich is not robbing a member of the Central Electoral Commission to sing operas at the CBC.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u202	Bulba, don't take the Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u203	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Well, sing operas, of course, in the C.V.C.C. You don't need to, but you need experts. So I'm asking you with a question: why is there no new information in the new list of Stavnichuk Marina Ivanovna, whom I'm sure everyone knows and respects for her professionalism, for her principles? And such people should be on the Central Election Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u204	I would like to ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to take account of the situation that, in accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine and in accordance with the powers of the President of Ukraine, which are set out in article 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, and also in accordance with article 31 of the Ukrainian Law on the Central Election Commission, the President of Ukraine is obliged to force his application for the submission of the permanent termination of the powers of the CWC. Rather, such motivation is not found in the law and the Constitution of Ukraine regarding the appointment of members of the CLTC. However, for my part, I can say that the President of Ukraine, according to his credentials and also because of the fact that the appointment of new members of the CEVC takes the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of course, has taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u205	Let me finish. I'm giving Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u206	Of course, I took into account the proposals made by MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. If the MPs, instead, believe that the candidates proposed by the President of Ukraine, in which the President of Ukraine has no doubt, are unworthy, of course they can demonstrate their position on this matter by the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u207	Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u208	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, I have such a question. Actually, I'm almost going to repeat my colleague Chukmasov. In the Constitutional Court, as President's representative, we had to cross the spaghetti or something, figuratively, with Volodymyr Mikolaiovich Shapolov. And he seemed to me very involved in a certain political sense, let's say he was overly specific about the Constitution. I know he's a professor, a doctor of law, but in this case, it's not about his education, it's about his profession, it's about his involvement. Do you not think that in the iposa of the head of the Central Electoral Commission, he can show this kind of prejudice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u209	Dear John Sidorovich, I think you understand very well that according to the credentials that I have received from my trustee, namely, the President of Ukraine, I am not authorized to express my personal opinion. But I am convinced that the President of Ukraine, as well as the factions that have submitted all the nominations for members of the Central Electoral Commission, enjoy high authority in both this sessional room and, by the way, in the entire Ukrainian society. But, of course, you may disagree with this generally accepted thought, and you can testify to your position by clicking on the red button that stands before you accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u210	It's already called agitation. Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u211	Dear Roman Mikhailovich, in the decision on the release of members of the previous convoy, we have recorded and, I think, we have made a very correct, special point on social guarantees to former members of the CBC. However, it is desirable that all members of the CLTC, God forbid, get sick, run for hospitals as it was, and some of them are offered again. Roman Mikhailovich, it may be appropriate to include an additional point aimed at supporting the physical condition of the esteemed future members of the CBC, let's say, additional nutrition and something like that. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u212	Dear Mr. Rephat, I think the President of Ukraine will not object if the government in the Prime Minister's person proposes appropriate budget changes in order to strengthen the food regime of the Central Electoral Commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u213	And I think it's very easy to do that with the economy of those funds that we're not going to give to the people's deputies who are going to stop being people's deputies, including Chubarov. Please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u214	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich! Adam Ivanovich, thank you. Fast, socialist faction. I want to talk to my colleagues that we've been exchanging wise thoughts, everyone has said what they wanted. I think the situation in this question is well known, how not to spin, we have to vote equally. Let's vote and finish this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u215	A miner, please. Is it? Yeah. A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u216	Dear Roman Mihajlovich, I want to support the idea of my colleague Refat Chubarov and, in addition to eating more, may provide some additional medical services in the budget, special ambulances, resuscitation facilities and so on for some members. And I also want to say about engagement. Well, I'd like to know how involved Tetjana Leonidina Lukash was on the second round of presidential elections, well, the other members of the CBC, the CTC, who were released then for falsifying the second round of presidential elections.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u217	You're gonna have to have a rosary line, please. Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u218	Adam Ivanovich, Adam Ivanovich, I'm drawing your attention. I didn't name any last name. But I can call it if you insist, and they're sitting there, and they were offered by your faction, the faction of the Communists. And I'd like you never to comment on a statement by the deputies, if you don't like it, if you don't like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u219	And you know, the one I don't like, I really don't touch. So this is what it's all about. That's the first one. The other one. Nobody's sitting down yet. They're here. Yes, dear colleagues, we should consult. Did the committee consider the question? Ready? Right. We have a rule in our regulations that members of the Central, future members of the Central Electoral Commission, the candidates for this post should answer the questions of the people's deputies. So I'm addressing you, which one of you candidates has a question? None. Honey, do you have any questions? Okay. The other one. Then we'll vote the ruling on the list? No objections? If only you'd been so good. I put to the vote a decree number 3618 on the appointment of members of the Central Election Commission. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 21, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Appoint members of the Central Electoral Commission. I, my esteemed colleagues, will read and beg, perhaps let the candidates present themselves through the way of getting up. Astachov Tamara Valeriyivna, Danilevski Yuri Mikolaiovich, Donchenka Yuri Grigorovich, Jewish Igor Grigorovich. Yeah, he's in the session room, he's our colleague. He may be there, but he's still a deputy. Lukas Tetjana Leonidivna, Mager Andrija Josephovich, Hendovský Mikhail Volodymyrovich, Pisarenko Anatolia Arkadyovich, Rajkovský Bronislav Stanslavovich, Usenko-Cherna Jana Ivanovna, Chupachina Alexander Mihajlovich, Shapoval Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Sweden Julius Viktorovna, Shelestova Aleksandra Mikolaiovich and Sheludz Valerija Evgenovich. I'm making a ruling on the ruling as a whole. Take it off the vote. Bulby's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u220	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Bubble Stephen, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, I looked at everyone and one person and I want to propose, let's vote not on the list, but separately so that they understand the cost of our treatment and then consider it. After all, well, it seems to me that the brains to adopt laws, to elect national MPs are not fit, and the more to vote for the Central Election Commission, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u221	Okay. Dear colleagues, there will be no list. Since there is a denial, I will not violate the Rules, for part three of article 205 states: “The appointment of members of the Central Electoral Commission shall be by open ballot on each candidate separately. A member of the Central Electoral Commission is considered to be a candidate for a post supported by the majority of the votes of the national deputies from the constitutional composition. Dear colleagues, we'll figure it out. Who, in order to appoint Astach Tamara Valeriyovna, please vote. [[22:18:47]] For 413 A decision has been made. [[Applause]] Danilevsky Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[22:19:09]] For 423 A decision has been made. Donchenka Yuri Grigorovich. Please vote. [[22:19:29]] For the 420. A decision has been made. Jew Igor Grigorovich. This is a colleague from the BUT faction. And they're asking if it's yours? I say we have to vote. [[22:19:50]] For 416 Lukas Tetjana Leonidina. Please vote. [[22:20:11]] For 416 A decision has been made. We are voting on the Major Andrew Josephovich. [[22:20:33]] For 389 A decision has been made. Hendowski Mikhail Volodymyrovich. Please vote. [[22:20:54]] For 422 A decision has been made. Pisarenka Anatolia Arkadyovich. Vote. [[22:21:15]] For 424 A decision has been made. Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich. Please vote. [[22:21:36]] For 422 A decision has been made. Osenko-Black Jeanne Ivanovna. Please vote. [[22:21:56]] For 386 Decision taken. Chupachina Alexander Mikhailovich. Please vote. [[22:22:17]] For 424 A decision has been made. Shapovalova Volodymira Mikolaiovich. Please vote. Vote. [[22:22:40]] For 337 A decision has been made. The Sweden of Julius Victoriana. Please vote. [[22:23:03]] For 409 A decision has been made. The Shelest Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please vote. [[22:23:24]] For the 420. A decision has been made. Sheridan Valery Eugenovich. Please vote. [[22:23:45]] For 425 Well, we voted separately. Let's do it in general, because here's the point that this decision takes effect from the day it's adopted. I'm betting on a total vote of 3618 for the appointment of Central Elections. Vote. [[22:24:24]] For 424 It's been decided. Don't be hasty. Don't be hasty. A member of the commission shall serve before taking office at the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then we'll welcome them. Do you have the texts of the oath? Yes. Then I'm on your permission. Please, Astahova Tamara Valerievna. No, they're all going to read because everyone wants to be a member of the CLTC. Get ready for Danielewski. On the rostrum, please. Be patient, there are not many questions left. Please read.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u222	I, Astahova Tamara Valeriyevna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u223	Yes, thank you. Let's say hello. [[Applause]] Yuri Mikolaiovich Danielevski, please. Prepare Donchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u224	I, Danilevsky Yuri Mikolaiovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u225	Yes, welcome Yuri Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] Yes, thank you. Give me a statement. Your oath. Please, Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u226	I, Donchenko Yuri Grigorovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-party position to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u227	Welcome, Yuri Georgievich. [[Applause]] Jew Igor Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u228	I, Židenko Igor Grigorovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-party position, to be honest and objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u229	Welcome, Igor Grigorovich. Aunt Leonidina Lukash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u230	I, Lukas Tetjana Leonidivna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-party position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u231	Welcome, Aunt Leonidina. [[Applause]] Yes, I am invited to take the oath of Mager Andri Josipovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u232	I, Magera Andriy Josephovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine of a non-party position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving issues that fall within the powers of the commissions, to ensure the implementation of the protection of Ukrainian electoral rights and the right to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u233	Andrew Josephovich, welcome. [[Applause]] I invite you to take the oath of Ahindowski Mikhail Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u234	I, Ohindowski Mikhailo Volodymyrovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving issues that belong to the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u235	Welcome, Michael Volodymyrovich. Pisarenko Anatoly Arkadyovich is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u236	I, Pisarenko Anatoly Arkadyovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission, to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum. Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u237	Yes, welcome. [[Applause]] I invite you to take the oath of Rajkovsky Bronislav Stanislavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u238	I, Rajkovsky Borislav Stanislavovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my powers in the Central Electoral Commission, to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and unbiased in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u239	Welcome, Bronislav Stanislavovich. [[Applause]] We invite you to take the oath of Jeanne Ivanovna Usenko-Black.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u240	I, Usenko-Corna Jana Ivanovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u241	Welcome. I invite you to take the oath of Alexander Mikhailovich Chupahina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u242	I, Chupahin Alexander Mihajlovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in matters that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u243	Welcome, Alexander Mikhailovich. [[Applause]] I invite you to take the oath of Shapoval Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. Dear colleagues! Honorable colleagues! We're not in the stadium, we're in the walls of Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u244	I, Shapoval Vladimir Mikolaiovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the authority of the commission, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u245	Hello, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. I invite you to take the oath of Sweden to Julia Victoria. Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, you will have to sign an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u246	I, the Sweden Yulia Viktorovna, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my powers in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation, protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u247	Welcome, Julia Victoria. [[Applause]] I invite you to take the oath of Shelesto Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u248	I, Shelest Alexander Mikolaiovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my authority in the Central Electoral Commission to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u249	Welcome, Alexander Mikolaiovich. [[Applause]] He is invited to take the oath of Shaludzko Valeriy Evgenovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u250	I, Shaludzko Valeriy Evgenovich, swear to the Ukrainian people in exercising my powers in the Central Electoral Commission, to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, to be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues that fall within the commission's authority, to ensure the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and to participate in the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u251	Thank you. Congratulations. [[Applause]] So, dear colleagues, we now have every reason to welcome the members of the Central Electoral Commission, which we have today for the next seven years, I hope, they have been appointed by the members of this distinguished body. [[Applause]] Welcome. And I would very much like you to return to this room only seven years from now to be reassigned. So that the next election doesn't have what it takes. That's the first one. And the second. I would very much like to ask you right now, I'm addressing the members of the Central Electoral Commission, please go up to the third floor, hold the first organizational session, pick your leaders. [[Old People Know Where It Is]] The motive will be later. Congratulations again. Please go to work. For what, I don't understand, Baranowski? Voting? Write down who wants the factions in a minute. Please. We'll close. Yes. Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u252	I want to give the word to Winski, or he's standing there and he won't say a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u253	The Spanish word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u254	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You know, it was Alexander Frost's morning address on our application for credentials, and as it turned out, he needed another application to make sure that we were determined in our intentions. I submit to the Head of the statement, or more faithfully, which confirms once again that the National Deputies of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” are coming out of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. And please read it, these statements.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u255	Yes, Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u256	Once, I remember, it was such a story. In 1996, when the text of the Constitution was negotiated here on the third floor, one day Vana Popescu did not come from our faction and decided to send me. I've been sitting there for, like, 10 minutes. There was a meeting of the Immortal, one lamp of reason, and he was assisted by the lampstand Igor Yukhnovsky. I listened to them for 10 minutes, discussed the chapter on local self-government. And I realized that if I stayed at this meeting, then the historians would write that Ukraine had been destroyed because the chapter on local self-government was written by Boldyrev. I got up quietly and walked away from there. And now, distinguished colleagues, we continue to see this spectacle about how people who think it might be right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u257	Kirilenko. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u258	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, as the president of the Regulatory Committee, members of the "Our Ukraine" faction, the national deputies who wrote a statement of withdrawal from the "Our Ukraine" faction, made a written report to the chairman of the plenary on their exit from the "Our Ukraine" MP. These are the messages, I'll show you. They're equal to 60.5 people on a mission, and another message comes in. The amount given by BUIT allows us to talk about that other statements are enough to stop the authorization of the Supreme Council under article 82. I'm handing over Adam Ivanovich, and I demand, in accordance with paragraph 3 of the decree you passed, at the earliest post-registration session of the High Council plenary meeting of the meeting, that the text of the personal written statements of the Ukrainian People's Deputy be made public.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u259	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u260	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly, the Socialist faction. I would like to say hello after these statements to the Kinah Group, which, in accordance with article 82, will become part of the Supreme Council. And then the Supreme Council will be made up of 300 people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-01-m1.u261	Dear colleagues, they exchanged their thoughts. Exchanged thoughts. No one's gone out yet, no one's going anywhere yet. So on this note, allow the evening session to be closed. I announce Monday at 11 p.m., there will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Tuesday at 10 a.m., plenary meetings. Good luck.
