ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u1	Good morning, honourable deputies, other participants in meetings, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! I'm asking you to prepare the deputies for registration. There's a roll-up. [[10:02:57]] 260 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. We planned to consider proposals for budget changes in the morning, and the government was asked in response to this need, but the discussion with the Prime Minister in the morning confirmed that the Cabinet of Ministers would consider these clarifications further tomorrow. And so there's a need to look at the project itself on Monday after the Cabinet of Ministers makes the right decision. So I'd like to vote first of all for the 10 a.m. plenary meeting on Monday, like a change in the calendar plan or a clarification of the calendar plan, and second of all, we'll release the Cabinet of Ministers, keep working, prepare this document. No objections? Then I put to the vote a motion for a plenary session on Monday at 10 a.m. [[10:04:18]] For 246 Decision taken. Let's take this chance. Let's welcome Edward Leonidovich Matthews with his birthday. We wish him success, good, creativity. In accordance with the Rules, requests are being made today. I'm doing it. Sergey Chukmasov refers to the Prime Minister for failure by officials to carry out the Prime Minister's mandate of March 19th, which led to the lack of funds to the State budget. Mikoli Danilina to the Minister of Defence on the legality of the implementation of the movable and immovable property of the state-owned enterprise of the Ministry of Defence “Central Military Sanatorium “Yaltinski”. Deputies to the Minister of Health on the need to finance the Borznian Central District Hospital in Chernigiv. [[Komar, Chečetov, Mankovsky]] Teams of deputies to the Minister of Education and Science on the need to provide computer classes in 2007 for the schools in the region of Chernigiv. [[Komar, Mankovsky, Chechetov]] John Bondarczuk to the Minister of Transport and Liaison regarding the inadmissibility of closing the railway station of the Lipovets region of the Winnitsky region. Jury Miroshnicka to the head of the Montenegrin District Council on the plan for the construction of a cement plant in the Novgorod-Sver region. Sergia Chukmasova to Deputy Prime Minister Klavov and Head of the National Commission for the Settlement of the Liaison of the Beast on the violation by the National Commission for the Regulation of the Liaison of Ukraine through the failure to provide information on its activities. And to these authors, Chukmasov's request to violate the National Commission's communication regulation of article 32, paragraph 12, of the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act. We do, we send these questions to the addressees, and we hope that the response to them will be appropriate. In line with the Supreme Council ruling that was adopted in early April, you have the opportunity to exchange ideas on different types of issues. Therefore, if anyone would like to make a statement on this subject, please write it down. By factions at first, factions -- five minutes, now MPs, yes. Please, Korsakov, Korsakov of the Party of Regions, please. Then introduce yourself for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u2	Verni Dubov, “Region” faction. Dear friends, there have been and are many things in life and politics that I do not understand. There have been events that I don't understand. But what is happening today, what definitions can explain the absurdity of all that is happening? In an effort to explain in particular, we can get into the discussion of the deaf with the blind. Clearly, one of the stated presidential shudders, directed over the ocean in the irregular operation of the tip-offs from the Banking Office, is methodically and consistently preparing the country for civil war. I'm only talking about my personal perception. Anyone who has more or less learned to understand rhetoric from Banking knows that when they talk about blood drops over and over again, that's exactly what this is about. I, an active participant in the Crimean events of the 93s, 97s, when the issues of Ukraine's inter-national relations and territorial integrity were most serious, when certain policies encouraged people by the words “Sevastopol was and is Russian”, it is very offensive. After all, even in those years of severe trials, even in the town of Sevastopol, with guns loaded on all sides, where everything could have erupted because of a single household phrase, “let us smoke”, and the dialogue is typically continuing, we have managed to contain the situation. Politicians proved to be wiser radicals who pushed people to achieve the goal at all costs. And, by the way, it will be the right thing to say in this situation today, thank you very much to the rest of Boza Boris Yeltsin, in time to the man who said his word on the inadmissibility of border crossings, and to the presidents of Kravczuk and Kuchma, who have shown patience and tact on their part. True, the slogan “The family will not forget you”, although it will not remember for its people the local politicians who were worthy and courageous in defending Ukraine's interests, of course, and in this case it worked. What words could be found today, and who could listen and listen to the President of Ukraine, apart from the Zackeyan leaders, if they silenced Ukraine for its death? Because if, as it is said, everyone is not walking on his own, what do you do to save the state? Elections? Yes, probably an election, but not a Parliament or maybe not a Parliament. Then we must choose a head of State to be guided by the interests of all the people who chose him. And now, I am sure, the will of the people who voted in favour of the wrong presidential policy is greatly distorted by the President. And if he doubts that, let him really check the elections. “The sovereign is always right.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u3	Thank you. The word has Antipov in place of Uncle Tímoshenko’s Yulia Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u4	Good afternoon, dear friends! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters! I, Antipov Oleg Nikolaević, Ukrainian national deputy, member of the party Batkivščina since 1999, deputy from the BUT faction on list 32, chaired the Regional Regional Organisation of the All-Ukrainian Association of Batkivščina. I was a member of the party's bureau, a member of the party's political council. And I want to tell you that neither the President nor the leader of the BIT have created the conditions in which the country, the parliamentary-presidential Republic, and we are with you. These conditions have created a people who believe in the generosity of their appeals and promises. Therefore, we actively participated in the “Resurrection, Ukraine!” action. And I, together with the people, and my fellow party members, participated in the "Rise, Ukraine!" campaign. We were standing at the walls of Lukyanovo Prison. We, Victor Andreevich, took thousands of people out for you because we trusted you. We have always believed in you and believed in you for a better life, for the prosperity of the country, and we have always been with the people. We trusted you with the people, Mr. President and Mrs. Timoshenko. We believed you were worthy leaders. That you are able to guide us to a strong and happy Ukraine. But more than two years of leadership have shown us your insolence as managers. In addition, I would like to ask the President why, when we needed the Opposition Act, you and your Secretariat were against this law. You don't need opposition, you need absolute power. You, your team and Yulia Vladimirovna Timoshenko planned this crisis, both political and economic, and planned an energy crisis. Why then, six months ago, there were slogans on the big boards that will win Spring. They knew about it, they were planning the situation, and I have no doubt about it. I want to speak to you in public, Julia Vladimirovna. You tell people we're traitors, you say we're bought by our opponents. Nope. The traitors are you. You have betrayed the ideals of the Mayan, and you have been bought, not by us, but by you and your new environment, which you have changed to the true idea of people. It is you and your supporters that have come from the high ban of Turovska. It is you who are willing to put on the altar such a beautiful country for what Uncle Soros offers you because of the ocean and Mr. Berezowski. You're not the one who's running full-blown political councils like you used to, and you're doing all three. You're the one who turned the party into a totalitarian system where the troika is sentencing the parties, like it was in 37 years. It is you who are willing to spend the last of the people's money together with Mr. President from the reserve fund to hold elections to meet your political ambitions. It is with your own hands that you destroy the political elite of the All-Ukrainian Party of the Fatherland, destroying its ideological base. You created this from a party structure in which money is decided by everyone. Confirmation of that is a massive withdrawal from the party. Only last year did 52,000 people leave the party. You're always bluffing. I want to tell you one thing, Julia Vladimirovna, I've always been taught to be a commander. The leader is an example for his subordinates. You're bluffing by writing a statement. I propose from this rostrum, let the electorate hear us, the news of the Ukrainian people, come to our next plenary meeting, speak from this rostrum and put your statement on Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz' table. Then this will be an example. And the mandate, and then it will be decided what the Supreme Council will do to you. You're bluffing, holding party rallies. You held the seventh and eighth congress, where there were no representatives of justice, the Central Electoral Commission. You appoint the leaders of the regional organizations of the protagonists who are willing to carry out any of your teams and sell their mother to resolve their useful issues. You're unattainable when you were prime minister and unattainable to the parties now. You say you're a new power, and we trusted you. The scariest, most terrible, dear friends, and let the whole country hear you say with a quiet voice on the faction, one phrase: “We must destabilise the country”. This will be confirmed by MPs who will not be afraid of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. [[Applause]] You'd think we'd have to destabilize the country. I understood you a long time ago. You're doing better than that. It's worse for you than it could be. Better for you. You're spreading rumors that we've been sold for millions. Julia Vladimirovna, I am rich for a long time. I'm richer than you are, I'm richer than the President, because I live in such a beautiful country, a country that surrounds me, such a beautiful people. I'm proud that my father liberated Ukraine. I'm proud that I have a western Ukrainian wife. Do you understand what this is all about? That's my fortune. And most importantly, the butler deputies and our Ukrainians, who are not in the hall, go back to their jobs. You didn't swear to the President, you didn't swear to Timoshenko, you swore to the Ukrainian people. Return to your seats, create a healthy competitive opposition and for your work, comrades. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u5	From the Communist faction, Cibenko has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u6	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear voters! In connection with these extraordinary rebel events in Ukraine, the whole country has the opportunity to see the price, the weight of the Presidential word. I am talking about the Presidential guarantees, not only for the domestic use of Ukraine, but also data from the Council of Europe on the inability of a forceful scenario of events in Ukraine. As we have learned from reliable sources, it is a strong scenario for the future in Ukraine that is being implemented today. The point is that the Washington Department of Human Resources has given good to its implementation, that is, I am stressing once again the forceful scenario for the consolidation of democracy in Ukraine. It is the task of taking over the House of the Supreme Council of Ukraine during the holidays and weekends and not allowing the national deputies of Ukraine to take over their jobs. In doing so, it is permitted not to worry about the rights of Ukrainian national deputies, in other words, to do whatever you please will be justified. I think that now, as it were, everything is in place, including the events of yesterday. That is to say, it becomes clear why another Attorney General was needed, or at least an anecdotic situation, in which two Attorneys - Generals are present in Ukraine. In view of the stated actions of the guarantor of the Constitution in paws, I can repeat again what I said yesterday after the issuance of two famous decrees by the President of Ukraine. After these events. After the issuance of these decrees by the President, Pinochet, Franco, Mussolini, all together, he is also alone, resting. So once again, in Ukraine, there's been a coup d'état for the purpose of establishing a dictatorship, and it's being carried out by the President of Ukraine, Victor Andrievich Yushchenko. This may not be seen only by a blind or completely prejudiced person today. In view of this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not simply have the right but is obliged. First. To begin the impeachment procedure of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine immediately. Second, Contact the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, other European institutions with information on real developments in Ukraine. This needs to be done, at least so that when Ukraine starts shooting some of the zealous Euro-Parliamentaries, there is no argument like that that we don't even know that it's so serious in Ukraine. [[And I have no doubt about it.]] Third. Cancel all deployments of Ukrainian national deputies and decide that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should work on a regular basis on holidays. Once again, I would like to point out to the Ukrainian citizens that the price of the issue is not what they meant, it is not about preserving Parliament and not even preserving parliamentaryism. It's about preserving the unity of the state, it's about not accepting a new orange rebellion. Dear colleagues, you and I are destined to protect the Constitution from its, as it were, guarantee and true democracy from, as it were, the arms of democracy offered today by the President of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, it is up to you today that Ukraine has a further destiny, and it is with you today that the whole of Ukraine, the working people of Ukraine, our constituents, are looking forward to protecting the working people of Ukraine and Ukraine as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u7	The Volga has socialists, followed by Kravchenko. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Two aspects that I'd like to stop today from speaking to the faction. Aspect first. I suggest we stop talking about President Viktor Yushchenk's impeachment. Except that you and I are not going to be able to implement this procedure because we don't have the necessary number of votes, except for everything else, we are now, you just think about what depth we're putting in the hands of Mrs. Julia Volodymirous Timoshenko. Today, she is blackmailing the President only because she knows additional sources of funding for his family. And now we're going to add to this blackmail, and we're going to add the possibility that she's going to bring her Cossacks here, and they're going to vote for Victor Andryovich Yushchenk's impeachment. I don't know what kind of action the President might still be up to, I don't know. That's the first point. And yes, it is unrealistic, and it is dangerous for the further development of the situation. The other one. You know, personally to me as a national MP, and right now to the faction members are coming, just a bunch of letters are coming in, where the citizens of the country, the phone calls are calling us with serious concern. This serious concern has been caused by a series of actions recently committed by the President. I'm going to remind you of just a few of them that can be considered as, at least, very strange. We will recall the President's address to the Ukrainian people that he made from the television screen on "5 channels". The president confused the date of the early elections several times. The President of the country calls the Supreme Court of Ukraine a farce. Well, who else can afford to do that? A visit to Europe by Viktor Andriyovich, he was affected by a number of such very serious, resonant things. Viktor Andriyovich, speaking to the MEPs in front of the European politician, makes a statement even though it is a starting point. What he considers to be a starting point is the decision of the Constitutional Court. Europe is calming down. Ukraine is calming down. Victor Andryovich comes here and does everything 100 percent the other way around, making it impossible for the court to decide. What's happening now with the courts and with the U.K. Attorney General's Office is not a matter of any kind. The point of these letters, the references to me personally by Ukrainian citizens, is that people are very seriously concerned about the state of the President’s health. I want to point out that I'm saying pretty serious things. I will quote, with your permission, the 110th article of the Constitution, a free legislator, writing this rule, accepting this standard, has paid special attention to the state of the President's health, because it is very dangerous if a person cannot adequately accept reality in relation to his state of health, to give such a person presidential powers. Article 110 of the Constitution. “The failure of the President of Ukraine to carry out his mandate for the state of health should be established at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and confirmed by a decision taken by a majority of its constitutional composition on the basis of a written submission to the Supreme Court of Ukraine for the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and a medical conclusion.” At this stage it happened in the country that the only legitimate body that is currently working is the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is able to govern Ukraine. Now, in the end, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers are demonstrating a very orderly and systematic work that allows day and day to improve the lives of our citizens. We are now, in accordance with this article of the 110th Constitution, we can, and I propose to consider this possibility, to create a temporary commission of inquiry for the study of the beginning of materials, so we need to look at the status of the President, at the materials that are now, his personal card, and finally I doubt that the person who used almost a glass of dioxin, and the confirmation of the medics is primarily affecting the central nervous system that this person is able to remain adequate. On the basis of all of this, I propose that we now discuss this and put to the vote the creation of an interim commission of inquiry that is to be called upon and an international expert medical group is to be set up. Ask Viktor Andriyovich to undergo a medical examination of his health. After that, go through the entire procedure provided for in the 110th article of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u9	Catherine Samuelk has the word for Kravchenk. Then Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u10	Samylik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear fellow countrymen, the earth is burning beneath the feet of the President. Knowing that Decree No. 1 is a powerful example of legal constitutional nihilism, the President is issuing Decree No. 2 on divorce now. the disbanded Supreme Council of Ukraine. Whether he knows it's the last nail in the political, I emphasize, political homeland of the guarantor of the Constitution. Julia Timoshenko’s compatriot will kill the last nail in the political household. Your actions, Victor Andriyovich, are seen by the people as not contempt for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but for the great wise people of Ukraine. The EU's representatives, Paris, Yushchenko and Timoshenko are not European politicians, and they will never, ever be, leave out illusions, they are pro-American politicians who are promoting American interests in Ukraine and Russia's borders. It is they in Ukraine today who are destroying parliamentaryism. They're in the state today destroying democracy because their understanding is the American understanding of democracy, it's blood in Iraq, it's Afghanistan, it's the Yugoslav version. We don't want that. It is a disgrace to the people with its heart, who have declared herself an agent of the advancement of American interests in the territory of our country with you. Mr. President, the people of Ukraine deserve a different fate, a happy fate, stop because you are knowingly sharing Ukraine, cremating it into pieces, giving peace to the people. My colleagues and I have made a proposal for the beginning of the President's impeachment. [[Kravchenko, Baburin, Karakai, Kovtunko, Polishtuk]] Our arguments: the sovereignty of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, the national interests of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine are in danger, are virtually treasonous to the national interests of the Ukrainian people. These are all the main arguments for the President's impeachment. And by the way, that is what the people of Ukraine require of us. Dear listeners! We are on the eve of May 1st, the festival of work and spring, and I invite you all to go out to the square and in Kiev and in the district centers and say: “No! The coup d’état, ” we say: “No! State traitors and treason” and say: “Yes! Ukraine is democratic, sovereign and prosperous.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u11	Thank you. Alexander's word is, after him, after her, Mendus instead of Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, voters! On many occasions we need to hear our political opponents try to prove the democraticity and legality of early elections, including extraordinary ones, and refer to European experience. To the will of the people and to history at all. Ukrainian scientists in the field of social science are also drawing our attention and attention to historical facts that we cannot ignore by analyzing today's actions by orange extremists. With regard to the experience of other countries, we should remember that very often extraordinary elections were used, not as a democratic mechanism, but as a mechanism to bring about the power of the most stringent dictatorships. By the way, this is also true of the Nazi dictatorship in Germany. I remind you, NSDAP is a beautiful name for a national-socialist German working party. It seems that both the party's kisses were for workers and for democracy, but in fact, the NSDAP went to power through a series of regular and extraordinary elections to the Reichstag held in the 28th, 1930, 1932, 1933. In addition to the common German, there were elections in the landtag where the party also used the tactics of social demagogies, demagogies against oligarchs, Yudo-Moscow threats, sales political parties, legal formalities. [[Municipal authorities]] Today's extraordinary unconstitutional elections are not people's treatment, it's people's manipulation of the opinion, it's the reliance on fascist lumpane, it's the expansion of the political system, it's the creation of an enabling prerequisite for the success of demagogs and extremists. The social demagogy of a party of one leader, including the BUT, has its historical pattern and political analogy not only to the NSDAP, but also to the fascist movement in Italy, the typological fascist populist regime of Perron in Argentina and, unfortunately, a number of other examples in history. This conclusion is backed up not only by political theory, but also, unfortunately, by the extensive factual material from today's history of Ukraine. We must reveal the truth to the people with you, and we must open the eyes of the people for the true purpose and consequence of these elected companies. We must say that we are resolutely responsible: no orange provokers, no return of Ukraine to the heat of orange aggression. Hands away from a single, indivisible Ukraine! This is our position, this is the position of true Democrats and we will protect it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u13	The word is Mendus, followed by Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u14	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. President Yushchenko has issued an order to suspend parliamentary powers in a timely manner, and I suspect it may not be the last, since he is as foolish as he was the previous one. It's ridiculous, because the President, as one of the institutions of power next to another -- parliament, government, the judiciary -- can only act under the basic law, which means that only within the limits of the powers given. Everything else is either irresponsibility, or official crime. Is Victor Andryovich aware of this axiom? I think so. Otherwise, with such perseverance, his representatives would not have sought to stop the introduction of the President's first decree before the Constitutional Court, so they would not have avoided international mediation. It is understandable that Yushchenko is a democracy, Yushchenko is a proponent of European choice. These stereotypes are breaking through the seams. What democracy, if all dreams lie in one thing: returning to the authoritarian model of power. And the favorite theme is an imperative mandate that's long ago around the world, and first in Europe it's seen as anachronism. And what is involved in manipulating the Supreme Court's rulings on Governor Jovtak's case, the release by decrees of the President of the Judges, the appointment of officials to the NRA, who cannot be there under any conditions under the law. Such zigzags are the direct result of the presence in the surroundings of Viktor Andryovich's martyrdom group, which the notion of “the rule of law”, “constitution”, can only be understood by the concept of “the rule of law”, based on its difficult business biography. Under such conditions, the Supreme Council and the government must continue to abide by the letter of the law and realize that it is they who are responsible for economic performance, budgeting, social programs and so on. The budget committee and the government's financial and economic bloc, under such conditions, need to re-examine the results of the first quarter work and find ways to further raise minimum wages and pensions. This will be the most effective response to political adventure and the irresponsibility of those political forces who are well aware that in a stable country with positive economic dynamics, there is nothing to show them. Well, the Eastern proverb has long revealed the truth: “The dog barks, and the caravan goes its own way.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u15	Thank you. Pomarenko, behind him, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u16	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished radios and TV sets! I would like to repeat once again what I said back in August last year, that with the establishment of an anti-crisis coalition today called “the coalition of national unity”, the President organized an orange sabotage through the paralysis of power and the failure of all that our coalition is implementing. And President II's decree, it is no longer an ambitious desert, it is a manic desire to remain in power and to preserve those who serve his interests. The President went to the final stage of his manic programme today, a forceful solution to the problem. My colleague, Tsybenko, has already said that it is practically a task on weekends not to allow people's deputies to enter parliament. The next step is to remove the Cabinet of Ministers by allegedly failing to finance the elections. And third. This is a falsification of the elections when, by replacing the Cabinet of Ministers, they naturally seek to falsify the elections by placing their “ambitious” politicians. In doing so, they aim to separate Ukraine into two parts, not to be held in one part, not to be held in another part, and thus, in fact, to usurp power in full. What do we suggest? I am addressing all citizens of Ukraine today. On 1 May, we must hold events that will talk about the political solidarity of the coalition in our struggle for democracy in Ukraine. I propose that these days, I urgently arrange for signatures to be collected throughout Ukraine on the basis of the President's mistrust in connection with the full usurpation of the power he has begun today. I propose to organize regional majors throughout Ukraine, on which the collection of signatures will ensure and express its attitude towards the current usurpation of power. I also suggest this because respected colleagues that such actions taken by the orange team and orange madness have led to a sharp decline in investment today, a sharp increase in inflationary processes, a further rise in prices and tariffs, a fall in wages, a blow to Ukraine's economic independence. Therefore, respectable voters, know that it is the orange team that is today seeking to set a deadline, as they are today, that is to say, they are taking possible various political actions to create, in a climate of instability today, preconditions for the final destruction of economic space and, in fact, the transfer of economic space to the Americans, as they seek. The Communist faction therefore expresses its strong position – to continue to act, defending national interests and democracy in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u17	Stoyan, please. Stoyan will pass it on to Baranovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u18	Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. On April 12th of this year, I announced in the plenary that the disadvantages that are taking place in the U.S.G. under the leadership of General Bedrekowski were being announced. Regrettably, after the facts I have cited, Mr. Bedrekovsky not only made no conclusions but, on the contrary, expanded his, in a mild sense, activities that do not fit the legal framework. Even more insolent were the persecutions of police officers who did not want to carry out the criminal orders of General Bedrekovsky. To this day, I have been approached by a mass of militia personnel, veterans of the militia of the Zitomir region, with tons of documents that testify to the illegal activity of the general, expressed in the illegal distribution of apartments to his relatives, the smuggling of goods, the sale of office, and so forth. So today I want to contact Interior Minister Vasil Petrovich Tsushka as soon as possible to send a competent commission of the Ministry to the Zitomir Ministry and verify all the facts that are at the disposal of the Ministry. For an objective study, the fact commission would ask you, Sir Vassil Petrovich, at the time of the commission’s work, to keep away from the duties of Chief of the Bedrekovsky UMS so that the commission could consider all matters as objectively as possible. I would like to confirm once again that the members of the Zitomirsk police, the veteran militia organization of Zitomirsk, believe you, Sir Vasil Petrovich, that you sincerely want to bring order to the militia, and in their appeals they ask you to send the commission as soon as possible. And they're expecting your help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u19	Thank you. We're out of time, we're out of time, we're out of time, we're out of time, we're out of time for statements. It's about the last performance. Alexander Petrovich, you go to Vasil Petrovich and talk to him about the point of this question, because people complain from the place and the reason, perhaps in another. There, personal relationships often come to the fore. And I think we need to be very careful about these questions. And there's a proper order for that. The minister may find out these details with your own involvement. Other questions. That the President's decree is unconstitutional, everyone knows, and first of all it's the President. I think we have to act in such a way as to help him enter the constitutional field, and society enter into constitutional relations. Because you can use manipulations, political arrangements, or by referring to the people's will through street action, or by doing a lot of stupid things, and then looking at how from where society and the structure of power can be, to return to the Constitution, to the necessity of law-based relations in the state. So I would like us to be careful about this and talk without haste, there, and 111 articles of the Constitution, and 110 articles of the Constitution. I am asking Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov to consider these proposals at his committee meeting, which are expressed here by the deputies, and you, before expressing your determination to deal with such a question in such a sequence, nevertheless, find out all the possibilities at the committee meeting so that all the pros and cons can be analyzed, the effect that can be from how much justice will be confirmed, how much closer we will be to the rules of the Constitution, is important. I would like to report that more than 200 deputies signed a 24-number motion to the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of the President's Order, since the 26th, sorry, signed more, some 200 deputies and the Constitutional Court has every reason to consider this document. I want to point out that the Constitutional Court will now have less work to do, because in fact, the Second Order repeats 98% of the decree first. And it also has nothing to do with the 90th article of the Constitution, with the President's right to dissolve parliament, for reasons of his dissolution. And again, I'm throwing a polling bridge here, because some media outlets are pushing the idea that the President wants to put order in the state so that justice can prevail, and he and some women and men on the street are talking about what needs to be done, and these poor deputies are holding onto their seats and they can't accept what they have to do. I'm calling your attention again, and I'd like to ask that at the meetings, on the holiday days, you communicate properly with the citizens, and no one is afraid of the age-old election. The point is that elections should be based on the law, based on the Constitution. And if they're built on a lie, that's what they're going to be. Therefore, we need to be very careful that there is a legal basis, an awareness of the need for elections. You've seen, in 2004, and in 2006, the election was about society, and this was based on, in fact, not the primary factors that were involved in the divorce, and their positions were different about language, about the church, about sovereignty, about NATO, about other things. By conducting and setting a precedent for elections on a non-constitutional basis, we have the danger of going to elections again and again over and over again. It will end tragically to Ukraine, we cannot allow it, we have no right to allow it. So I'm addressing all of you so that the whole point of what's going on in the state is clearly explained to the citizens. I will not comment on the discharge or appointment of the Attorney General, the actions of the courts, etc. It was an initiative to create a temporary commission of inquiry. I think that we are obliged to find out the point of the matter in order for citizens to be evaluated on this subject, and this assessment has been objective. The appearance of a 26-number decree underlines only understanding, the awareness that the President, in particular, has prepared this decree, as has already been said here, “a torture group”. It is said that all of them understand perfectly that the decree is unconstitutional. And the court, no matter how much anyone treats him, but apparently he couldn't get over himself and call it constitutional. In fact, a few minutes before the Constitutional Court came to its conclusion, a decree appeared immediately. By procedure, the Constitutional Court then terminates the conduct of the case. But the fact that these were coordinated actions and the fact that they reaffirmed the unconstitutionality of the decree, I don't think anyone is in doubt. In other words, the coalition and the government are now responsible for the socio-economic system in the state, for order, for maintaining positive economic trends. Let us be responsible for ensuring such an upheaval, such a development of the state. And all the political issues, including the legal and political issues, will be made on the basis of the Constitution. Then we won't have a chance to make a mistake. I'd like to take this opinion to the Ukrainian people, and we've acted accordingly, not too radically, calling for some things that might destabilize the situation. And in two words, I just wanted to say that I had a frank conversation with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe yesterday for two hours. Europe today is concerned about the situation in Ukraine and also hopes that in a democratic way, on the basis of the Constitution, we resolve all issues. There was a meeting with the deputy director of the largest faction in the European Parliament, Hannes Freedom, and he also supports such a, he holds that opinion. I think all of this obliges us to act with restraint, discretion, constructively, to seek consolidation, to seek ways to consolidate society and to remove this conflict, created by artificial means, but based on the Constitution and its position. We have the first question: Registration Number 3498, draft decree establishing a Temporary Investigation Commission to investigate the conditions of dismissal and the appointment of judges of individual courts of general jurisdiction and heads, the Attorney General of Ukraine. Reports by Boldirev Yuri Aleksandrovich. That's what it says in the proposals. And the report by Efraemov Aleksandra Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u20	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. I think you've all read this project, and it doesn't make any sense to move it. I just want to say that if we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u21	A little louder. Don't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u22	My throat hurts, I can't do anything. If we take this decision, we will try to reintroduce the process. The purpose and purpose of this action will be to have the Special Investigation Commission find out why there may indeed be some other reason other than the actions of the so-called Zacarpathian group. Perhaps there are indeed some reasons in our legislation that allow us to go beyond the constitutional framework and take illegal steps. I think that, in any case, this adoption, the establishment of this commission of inquiry, will help us to somehow overcome the current crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u23	Is there a question for Yuri Alexiovich? Please, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich. I'm asking a colleague there on the gallery, don't hold a discussion louder than a reporter on the stand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u24	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Yuri Aleksandrovich, what is needed today to form such a commission, is no doubt. I'd like to add a fresh fact. So in the Chernobyl area in the Novoselice region, the centres of the “Our Ukraine” party are among those who went through the Novoseltski Rajsud for violations, decide on the mistrust of the head of the court, and send the President with conclusions to release the judge. So here are some of the cases I've been talking about, about Novoseltica and which are still relevant in all of Ukraine, I think this committee might be able to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u25	I completely agree with you. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u26	Any more questions? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u27	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, honourable national deputies, committee at the meeting on April 27th, reviewed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the conditions of dismissal and the appointment of judges of individual courts of general jurisdiction and their heads, the Attorney-General of Ukraine, submitted by the national deputies of Boldiriev and Ephraim, to the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee determined that the draft regulation was drafted in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council's rules and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider and support the draft regulation. Please make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u28	Is there a question for Alexander Sergiyovich? No questions asked. Then I ask you to take your seat. Someone wants to say something, right? There's no need. Then I put the whole draft regulation to the vote. Registration number 3498. Here comes the vote. [[10:54:36]] For 257 Decision taken. Question under consideration, registration number 2447. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on civil protection and technological security control. Mr. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u29	The distinguished Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Industrial Policy, Regulatory Policy and Enterprise at its meeting on 11 April 2007, reviewed and agreed to a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Effective Control in the Field of Civil Protection and Technological Security. Registration number 2447. The purpose of this bill is to ensure the proper state of technological security, potentially dangerous objects. The bill received five comments from the Ukrainian national deputies. Two of the comments were taken into account, and we accepted these comments at the committee meeting. Three amendments were rejected, after these three amendments, I might as well give a reasonable answer, but, Alexander Alexandrovich, if the authors of these amendments insist. Because the first amendment that came from Zac Alexander Viktorovich is a new article in article 9 on licensing certain types of farming will create a monopoly for the Ministry of Emergency Situations in this field. We believe, and the committee believes that this will, on the contrary, strengthen the State oversight of the Ministry of Emergency Situations in the Field of Civil Protection and Technological Security and its responsibility for these actions. And that's why the committee rejected this amendment. Second edition of Anatoly Ivanovich's Seminoga. So to include manufacturing and hardware licenses -- that was an offer -- to add. The law covers licensing: design, assembly, maintenance, and this system. And we think that's enough. And the observation of the fifth National Deputy of the Kingdom is to create a new body for licensing business entities with the provision of services for design, technology, and systems. emergency situations. We think the creation of such an organ is useless because it's an additional structure and it's useless. In view of all these amendments, we believe that the committee would consider the bill to be adopted in a second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u30	I'm explaining to the MPs the question in the second mode of second reading. If the authors of the comments and suggestions and additions have their own reasoning on their stand, please make a statement. None. Then I have the right to impose the whole law taking into account the committee's proposal for a vote as registration number 2447 “On amending certain laws on ensuring effective control in the area of civil protection and technological security”. Please go to the vote, identify yourself. [[10:58:25]] For 255 Decision taken. A draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is under consideration. [[on the exercise of a licensed commercial activity in the absence of a defined licensing body]] Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov will report. Registration number of this document 2589.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u31	Respected People's Deputies, the Industrial and Regulatory Policy Committee has considered a bill on licensing certain economic activities, registration number 2589, submitted by the People's Deputy. The purpose of the bill is to regulate business issues that are subject to licensing in the absence of licensing mechanisms for these activities. The Working Group on the Drafting of the Bill has considered and taken into account two comments made by the People's MP, Lapina. The drafters do not object to such drafting, nor do they object. The members of the Committee agreed with the rights introduced and propose the adoption of a bill amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities, registration number 2589 on second reading and, in general, as the Act. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, here's a note only by the Liapinya MP, who is absent from the meeting for unknown reasons, but they're counted. So I think she wouldn't deny it. There were no other comments. There is therefore every reason, in accordance with the second reading procedure, to put the draft Law 2589 to a vote as the Law. I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:00:38]] For 258. Decision taken. Registration No. 2803, second reading, examines the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production, production and use of precious metals and precious stones and control of operations with them. According to Sergey Anatolyovich Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u33	Respected colleagues, the Industrial and Regulatory Policy Committee, entrepreneurship, prepared for second reading a bill amending the Law on Governmental Control, Production and Use of Precious Metals, Precious Stones and Control of Operations. Registration No. 2803 introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted on first reading by the Supreme Council on 20 March 2007. The main objective of this bill is to introduce certain articles of the Ukrainian Law on the State Regulations for the Extraction, Production and Use of Precious Metals and Precious Stones and to monitor their operations in accordance with existing legislation and to comply with the requirements of Ukraine's accession to the Certification Scheme for Diamonds adopted by the Kimberley Process countries. The Working Group on the Finalization of the Bill examined the comments of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the need to clarify the date of signature of the international instrument on the approval of the certification scheme. Taking into account the statement made by the specialists of the Ukrainian Centre on the inadmissibility of such clarification in connection with the systematic change in the requirements of the certification scheme, the members of the Committee approved the text of the draft bill as presented for second reading. There has been little amendment to this bill, so we propose that the bill be adopted on second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u34	In fact, there were indications of refinement, most likely, it's of such an editorial and linguistic nature. I ask you to support the committee's position and vote as law, draft law, registration No. 2803. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:03:09]] For 247 The law is passed. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on mandatory public social insurance, including second reading, is under consideration. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u35	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! First of all, as the former head of the Federation of Ukrainian Trade Unions, as today's head of the National Deputies Association, I would like to welcome all of you with the coming beautiful celebration of spring, the Holy International Solidarity of Workers, let the April spring be on your hearts, your souls, let peace and harmony be in our society! I think on this day of solidarity we should all say: “No! To the disgraceful decrees of the President.” And I'm afraid there will be no third Presidential decree to abolish May 1st, because there was once an attempt in this room to abolish May 1st. And then, as the head of the Federation, he said, “May I cannot cancel, because the Day of Solidarity.” said, “Let's cancel the second of May”, I say, “That is no longer the second of May, because this is my birthday.” Yeah, we're gonna celebrate. I submit proposals, my fellow believers, more loyally, not my offerings, but my offerings to some of the laws of Ukraine on the issue of compulsory government social insurance. The point is that these funds should report to the government and publish these reports in the media, that is, establish these reports by law. And it's made into some laws. All proposals made by fellow members of national parliaments are taken into account. Therefore, there is good reason to vote on this law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u36	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich. I repeat, there are eight amendments, they are taken into account, because they specify the positions of the law and its standards, if there are no comments from the authors or if someone is taking any more of these amendments, they might say. No such remarks. So I have every reason to put the law to the vote. [[Registration number 2511]] Please support him as the law. Please. [[11:05:39]] For 248 Honourable MPs, chairman of the Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachechev Health Committee, ask that the matter be reconsidered, Bill 2192 removed from consideration, with reasons and arguments. Well, let's not have a discussion, let's trust the head of the committee on this. Well, it's not about the support of Aunt Dmitry, it's about another reason. So I'm asking you to support this proposal and take it off the table. [[11:06:53]] For 246 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements is under consideration. No, "To make changes and recognitions such that they have become invalid, some Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Civil Code" with the proposals of the President of Ukraine dated 17.03. 2007. [[Registration number 0905]] Sokil Andriy Alexiyovich. Please. The cook of Igor, because this isn't the cookbook. Please report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u37	Honorable Presidium, Your Honor! The Committee on Legal Policy considered the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Act "On Amendments and Recognition of Those That Have Fallen Inviolable, Some Legislative Acts of Ukraine in connection with the Adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine" at its meeting on April 18, this year. The President proposes the deletion of article 13 of the Ukrainian Act "On Amendments and Recognitions in That They Have Fallen Valid, Some Legislative Acts of Ukraine Due to the Adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine". His point is that legislative changes are intended to exempt banks from the obligation to send to the State Tax Office reports on the opening or closing of the taxpayer’s and the congregations’ accounts, compulsory payments by a legal person, including those opened through his separate unit or self - employed individual. As a result of such a change, the President feels that the authorities of the State Tax Service will not have full and reliable information on the accounts of the taxpayer and the congregations. This will make it impossible for the authorities of the State Tax Service to carry out their duties to monitor compliance with tax legislation with the rightness of calculation, the fullness and timeliness of payment to budgets, state trust funds, taxes and congregations, as well as untaxed revenues, which will create favourable conditions for abuse in paying taxes and in congregations. Moreover, in his view, the lack of information in tax authorities on taxpayers' and congregations' accounts would make it more difficult, in some cases, to fail to comply with the relevant court decisions, which did not meet the constitutional principles on the obligation to enforce them. [[Part 5 of article 124, paragraph 9 of article 129 of the Basic Law of Ukraine]] During the discussion of a proposal by the President of Ukraine on the Committee, it was noted that it was well founded, since the implementation of the legislative changes envisaged by the Law on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that some legislative acts of Ukraine were lost in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code, would make it impossible for the authorities of the State Tax Service to carry out the tasks imposed on them and would contribute to tax evasion. The committee noted that the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supported the President of Ukraine's proposal to legislate. The committee also received a letter of support from the government tax administration of Ukraine dated March 23, this year at number 06-1/3-1367. In view of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the proposal by the President of Ukraine and adopt the Act on Amendments and Recognition in such a way that certain legislative acts of Ukraine have been lost in connection with the adoption of the Civil Code of Ukraine, taking into account the proposal of the President of Ukraine. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered the President's proposal -- essentially a veto to this bill, which was about deleting the 13th article of the bill. And the Committee and the Tax Service supports the President's proposal, believing that this would be a more accurate reflection of the substance of the law and taking into account the fact that the Ukrainian Civil Code has already been adopted, where these points are settled. In this regard, I would like us to support the proposal of the President and the committee in this case and vote on this project in the light of those changes. [[Registration number 0905]] I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[11:11:43]] For 257 Decision taken. On the order of the day following the consideration of the questions raised at today's meeting, the “Variance” over the hour. Please write down who wants to speak. Kilincarov, followed by Koleschenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u39	Respectable people's deputies, distinguished radios! You know, I was, frankly, not surprised by the President's second decree on the dissolution of Parliament, because I was deeply convinced that this person would never act within the Constitution, because a person who came to power in an unconstitutional way could not act within the Constitution. Today we are in a rather difficult situation. But I am sure that we must do our utmost to uphold the rule of law and law in that country, for without it there is no point in going to the elections or in further reforming our State and the political system. Our election campaign may end in an endless process of elections, and I am sure that if we win this election with you, no one will admit it! It's obvious to me. Our position should therefore be strong enough, predictable and responsible. We must work with you, first and foremost, on the independence of the State, on the integrity of our State, and third, on improving the well-being of our citizens. Improving the well-being of our citizens is the only criterion for assessing the effectiveness of our authority. I fully and fully support the idea of initiating an impeachment procedure. And the question is not whether we have enough votes to carry out this procedure. It is a matter of political responsibility, a political assessment of the actions of the President. I therefore call on the people's deputies to support the initiation of the impeachment procedure. This will be our response to the unconstitutional actions that are taking place in our country today. And the last. You know, being in the region, people are just shocked by these actions of power. And what people are standing in the square today is a small number of people who have been able to come to the square today. I think that if the President will continue to act in the same unconstitutional direction, there will be strikes and marches on Kiev and much more in our arsenal. I don't want the script to go that way. I therefore call on both the President and the Anti-crisis Coalition to seek a way out of this situation, a coalition of national unity, to find a way out of this situation. Responsible policies cannot act against the interests of their own State. We are invited to the elections today, but unfortunately, I must note that the elections in our country do not unite but separate Ukrainian society, and we must also know and think about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u40	Thank you. Vadim Koleschenko, please. Get ready for Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u41	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected citizens, citizens of our Ukraine! We are in front of a big holiday on May 9th. And perhaps not everyone knows that the “George Tape” action has been under way for the third year. Our individual deputies carry this tape, place it in the workplace, our citizens, Ukrainian citizens, the city of heroes: Sevastopol, the town-hero Kerch, the city-hero Kiev, the city-hero Odessa supported this action this year. This year's action is called: “I remember, I'm proud, my grandfather's feat is my feat.” I think that if Ukrainians are able to do so, they will put them in the workplace. In their cars, in the city, they're going to put this action, they're going to place this tape, so I'm going to answer to our President for his wish to create a museum of Soviet occupation. They will thus respond to its scourge towards two thirds of the population of Ukraine, which in one way or another relate to our past, which have built our Power, protected and shed blood for it. A very dangerous event is happening today in the Baltic, where liberator soldiers are called marauders and try to carry out this monument to the liberator warrior outside the city. I think if we continue to encourage the President and his comrades to destroy our heroic past, to destroy our ideals, to destroy the ideals of patriotism, we will not only lose our past, we will not have a future. I think that the deputies present here must understand the Ukrainians. Which leads us to what they call nationalism, which turns into fascism. Unless we want Ukraine to be destroyed. If we do not want Ukraine to be divided into individual princes, if we do not want to become a third-rate country, we must unite today, unite in front of a big, big holiday – 9 May. On that day, there is always a huge parade in Sevastopol, and people are not brought there. From 8 a.m., the whole city stands and welcomes the few defenders of the homeland that remain. But people, these Sevastopols are now ready to protect Parliament, ready to defend the Constitution. If Yushchenko hopes to break the will of the people of Ukraine by force, he is mistaken. The hero city of Sevastopol, Ukrainian citizens, the patriots of Ukraine will stop both his tanks and his desire to be a king. We stand for our feat, we stand for our Ukraine, we stand for the future of our country, as opposed to those who want to crush it. Dear friends, with the coming 9th of May, we are all happy, and most of all, remember, the medallion is the Order of Military Glory.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u42	Thank you. But by May 9, we'll still be working, you'll have the opportunity to welcome our fellow citizens again. Please, Stoyan Alexander. Bondarchuku prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u43	Dear colleagues! The theme of my speech is “Break as a tool for the politics of the President of Ukraine”. Do you know how much I listen to the President all the time, I think, or when he's telling the truth and when he's lying? And when children lie, it's bad, and when children lie, it's bad twice. More recently, the president spoke to the students at school, talked about morality, about decency, about good politics. Was the President telling the truth or not? Let us remember his words and his truth. The first days when the President became president, he said: “I will leave this Kuchmew Palace and move here, closer to the Supreme Council.” He said he didn't move. Speaking from the Supreme Council’s rostrum, he said: “In two weeks I will be the name of Gonganza’s assassins, and I will not be ashamed to look into the eyes of Gongadze’s mother and children.” He said, and lied because it's been many years. Victor Fedorovich is passing for a while. Victor Yushchenko says again that he's going to be doing democracy, that he's really doing nothing for a small Ukrainian. And he said, literally, for days, that he would never allow the decree of April 2, 2006, that this decree would be carried out by all, it was the right decree, and suddenly, April 26, he would cancel his own decree. Again, did he tell the truth, or did he lie for the sake of politics? So when can we trust him? And last time, you know, I was impressed: literally yesterday, on the day of the Chernobyl tragedy, when there was an edict as a political tragedy, I heard a statement by the President, who said, "You have to get all the radioactive elements out of Chernobyl there, remove the sarcophagus, sow the grass." I would like to add: “Put the streets there and appoint Yushchenka as a pasturemaker.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u44	You're tough, though. Bondarchuk, please. After him, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, respected radio and television audiences! Those who advised the President to repeat the decree on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council evidently believed that this would instill panic and confusion in the ranks of the MP coalition of national unity and among our adherents. They've been calculated. That won't happen. On the contrary, we are more determined than ever, and we will demonstrate this unity in the first of May. We are given moral support by thousands of protestors against the unconstitutional decree that came to Kiev from all parts of Ukraine. Thank them so much for that. Our goals are simple and understandable. We stand for the protection of the Constitution, the rule of law and the law. For those who listen to us or watch us, once again, we do not cling to the chairs as they try to provide many unbiased media. We don't mind elections, including early elections. We have repeatedly stated that we will execute any verdict of the Constitutional Court. But we are against the illegal elections, the elections that are trying to impose an unconstitutional way on Ukraine. In his last address to the Ukrainian people, the President mentioned the Constitution and constitutionality nine times. But it is known that no matter how many times the word “halva ” is repeated, this will not make the mouth sweeter. So in a decree that materializes the President's intentions, respect for the Constitution, unfortunately, it doesn't smell. And although there's a reference to eight articles of the Basic Law, but it's done so emphatically, everything is so caught up in the ears that you're giving such a miracle of legal ignorance to the head of state, to the staff of the Secretary of the President, who are tasked with justifying the dissolution of Parliament, and who is trying to carry out this task without ceremonies with the Basic Law, trampling it. Regrettably, the head of State was shyly bypassed by article 104 of the Basic Law, which spelled out the text of an oath that he twice had, by the way, set a precedent in this room. And there are those words. “I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to uphold the authority of Ukraine in the world.” If the new decree is a manifestation of a great democracy, of the integrity of the Constitution and of a step towards raising the authority of Ukraine in the world, it is obvious that there is a situation here that says that only one elder is going in the leg, and the whole mouth is not in the leg. It is clear that counsellors will step aside in the event of something, and the jury of the Herostra will reach the President. But why is the Ukrainian people here? The Supreme Council, as the only legislative body of the state, will work and work. One way out of this is to negotiate and find compromises, is to make a mutually acceptable decision, dictate and blackmail in relation to the lawfully elected parliament. The coup d'état won't pass.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Matthew Valentine. Who? Madmarenko Georgie, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u47	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the President’s actions, which he has been demonstrating lately in connection with the issuance of a new decree on the holding of elections, we risk turning Ukraine into a permanent one. (a) Implementation of the in the country of permanent elections. I'm saying this because if the next election results are inconvenient for the Bank, it's possible to dissolve such a Supreme Council in the same way that they're trying to do it now, and so we can't create such a precedent that we don't have that chance for the future. The moon on the Independence Course, in the Supreme Council, the Central Electoral Commission stands our supporters, supporters of the Constitution. They came from below and from Darnica, they came from Cherkas, Kirovgrad, Ternopola, Lviv, Lugansk, and other cities not to protect Yanukovic or Simonenka, Moroz, Martinyuk, Ponomarenko or other national deputies. They have come to protect the Constitution, the basic law of the state that they are trampling on, which they want to trample. I repeat, by issuing an anti-constitutional decree, that the President violated the Constitution in a grave way. He will play with his beloved friends who are not satisfied that they have been removed from power, from the trough where they have enjoyed “snoozing ” in recent times, leading the once flourishing Ukraine to the brink of poverty and decay. Today, as I walked through the ranks of the shareholders, I noticed the slogan “Jushchenko, why Ukraine?” People understand that these salesmen from the President's neighborhood, his "loving friends," have received instructions from Washington, D.C., willing to sell our country for cash to be in power. And the authorities need to continue to draw Ukraine to NATO, despite the fact that a referendum was launched by the communists in 17 regions of the country, confirmed that up to 90 percent of the citizens, understanding the purpose of this aggressive bloc in the case of Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan did not support it. We are confident that at the first-rate rally, at the celebrations of the ninth victory on 9 May, there will be our slogans, not their slogans, their slogan “We need Ukraine if it is ours”. Our slogan “For Ukraine an independent, strong, prosperous country of social justice”. We're sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u48	Thank you. Eutuhova gives the word Gorbenko, please. And if you have a wish, you can speak for six minutes, because you are also written down. Prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u49	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues and distinguished voters, I have been contacted by friends, acquaintances, employees of enterprises, ordinary people, members of the Party of Regions, and they are all concerned today that they cannot understand what is happening in this country, where there was order and stability yesterday. And my colleagues at work, by the way, didn't share my views, said the following. Yuchenko once again made a mockery of himself, for the fate of his new decree would be the same as the previous one. If I had yet to expect positive steps from the President, yesterday I came to the basic conclusion that he has no real power today. Not because there is no authority, but because the majority of the people of Ukraine do not see themselves as the leader of the nation. He came through the back door and would walk through them. It falls under Gorbachev's fate, namely, to go to universities in America and to read lectures on "orange rats", of course, for money. And the patriot journalist, who had previously defended the President with despair, called me and told me that he had seen on television as I had been before the President, and asked me to tell him on the occasion that he was Yashchenko, for his short reign of the orange regime, had been able to destroy all the values that had been accumulated for the creation of a large and contemporaneous Ukraine. Even I cannot predict how many years it will take to unite a country and people who have always lived in harmony and harmony. The President, like no one else, sowed hatred among Ukrainians, destroyed unity and did not become President of the whole country, but became President of the "oranges". The offspring will not forgive that. What has been happening lately is the usurpation of power in the country's "orange camp". I would like to remind you that this so-called "orange camp" together received only 28 per cent of Ukraine's voters in the elections. They and the President have no right today to represent interests, even half of Ukraine, but they are trying to take power and represent the interests of all Ukraine, not counting on the Party of Regions, with our constituents, and ignoring today the Constitution and the laws of our state. [[Not with the largest faction in the Supreme Council]] They rush the Constitution under their eyes and juggle it as they please. And in general, I want to say that there is a constitutional procedure today, but the President is not following it today. Article 90, paragraph 1, of the second paragraph, is in application of this article. He, too, couldn't even do it. called on the minister of justice. Therefore, we have a legitimate reason today to say that, forgive me, but the decree issued in violation of applicable legislation cannot be enforced. You can see that Yushchenko has come to terms with the fact that he will not be able to convert to the Euro-Atlantic faith of the people of the Eastern and Southern regions of the country, and that the separation of Ukraine will also allow for the continued use of political capital by speculation on the subject of a divided nation, half of which seems to be oppressed by Russia. So the outline of Ukraine's future today is a NATO member and perhaps even the EU, but within the limits set out in 2004. But today should we say, did the President today ask our people whether he held a referendum on these issues that he is promoting today? One-sided politics is trying to move forward by closing one eye. It is not just honest politics and people in the East and South Ukraine who see it but also feel it with their heart. Such policies will never allow Ukraine to be united; such policies will only deepen the gap between half of Ukraine and the President. The Party of the Regions sees a way out of a situation created by rejection of empty declarations and mutual accusations. We urge all the constructive forces of Ukraine to unite around the idea of the fastest-growing economy, improving the well - being and quality of life. Only then can we create an authoritative Ukraine, the only and happy Ukrainian nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u50	Thank you, Natalia Arcentiyevno. Ivan Vasilovich Popescu, please prepare Matvienkov to pass on to Bogchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u51	Thank you, Popescu, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues, the high-ranking Adam Ivanovich, the noble Ukrainian people, the high-ranking compatriots of Bukovina. I would like to refer to the Head of the Montenegrin District Council, as well as to the heads of the District Councils of the Cherniewec Region, in particular the Globicki Region, to find out who initiated the decision to refer to the President for the dissolution of the Supreme Council before the decree was issued, thereby provoking the relevant councils to go beyond their competence and thus become accomplices to anti-constitutional action. But now I want to ask you something else. Do you and I have too much money to hold elections and give up the two million we need to build a new building for the Chernobyl oncodspenseer? Do we have any extra funds to refuse to build a school in the village of Zrub-. The Watch Tower Society or the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania provided funds for this purpose and began to work, since this was promised and the money in the budget was allocated. I would like to refer to the orange representatives of the Global District State Administration, why you had closed schools with Romanian language in the villages of Kamyanka and Korovia in the region. You will say that few children are without funds, but what you do is a direct violation of article 22, paragraph 3, and article of the Constitution, which does not allow for a narrowing of the scope and forms of existing rights and freedoms. I'm also addressing representatives of the authorities in the Colomia region, the District State Administration of the Ivano-Frankow region. Have you done enough to rebuild the school in the village of Juykow, which was recently burned during the fire? Dear colleagues, there was much to talk about. When we have local councils in the Montenegrin region, of course, together with the administration, we started to draft a bill on areas of priority development in order to raise our economy and when at the level of the Ministry of Economics, you do everything you can not to support this moment, but to support these adventurers from the opposition, because not all opposition is destructive, but only part of it and we have to talk about it. And instead of supporting our people to live better, you're doing everything you can to make it destabilize. If you want elections, they'll be in 2011, but the people will talk about how you work and what you've achieved. Thank you for your attention. Good-bye.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u52	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich, for your clarification. If they want elections, they will, for there is an appropriate article of the Constitution, which allows the Supreme Council to announce the early elections of those local councils that go beyond their authority. That's one thing, I'm sorry, Vasile, I'll say one more thing. I would also like everyone to remember the simple truth. If there is an illegal election of the Supreme Council, or if even the Constitutional Court decides that they are legitimate, I firmly believe that this election will not end, the election of the Supreme Council, the presidential election and the local self-government. If that's what everyone wants, let's all go to these elections together. Please, Bogchuk, he also had, was written down, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u53	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party of Ukraine, Ternopil Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! In my speech, I would like once again to point out the most painful problem of illegal occupation and use of state property, namely the illegal possession by some private individuals of the state-owned stockholders' package. Taking advantage of the political crisis that the former owners of the factory are now in the state, engaging in commercial structures that support today’s opposition, using the state’s legal chaos, they try to clean up the enterprise. And unfortunately, this is due to the questionable actions of some courts, which need to be evaluated immediately. Thus, on March 14, 2007, representatives of the State, namely, the State Property Fund and the Attorney General’s Office of Ukraine, were not allowed to sit down at the Court’s hearing on the matters of the Nikopol’s Ferro-Floitation. In the same way, the court denied the State the right to defend its property. Fewly, on April 25, an unprecedented action took place on the part of the Dnipropetrov region’s Master Court, who refused to grant the State’s request to the State’s State Property Fund to arrest the VAT control package of the Nicolel Ferrospile plant. This arrest sought to block the additional issue of shares five times, a question that was put into order by the daily fictional VAT stockholders' congregations, the Nicopolska Ferrospion plant, scheduled for April 26 of this year. An additional issue in this case leads to one: a significant breakdown of the government's stock and the actual open theft of state property. By failing to support the State in the State Property Fund, the Dnipropetrovsk Economic Court opened the way for the laundering of the government’s stock and threatened the final return of the control package to state property. The Socialist Party faction is outraged by the actions of these judges and appeals to the High Council of Justice to give a proper legal assessment of the actions of judges who are at risk of public interest, to the Attorney-General's Office, requesting that all measures be taken expeditiously to prevent the issuance of additional shares of the Open Share Company's “Nicopolian Ferrospoly plant” and requests the Government to consider urgently the return of the shares of the Nicolepol Ferrospoly plant to state ownership at the next meeting of the interdepartmental Anti-Residence Commission on the issue of combating illegal absorption and the capture of enterprises. On April 26, the stockholders’ congregations were not reported to have taken place. As socialists, we did everything we could to make the date of the meetings known to the entire public. And this has led to some adjustments in the plans of the false investors. But the problem is not solved. Taking into account the zeal of some who illegally own the government package of the ferroplane factory, these congregations may take place elsewhere, at another time. And the control pack of the state is going to be blurry. All possible measures must therefore be taken to stop these wrong actions by the supporters of the so - called opposition. It seems that the opposition has come up with a revolution to rob the state and the Ukrainian people again. We must stop the predatory appetite of this wolf pack. Ukrainian Socialists will do their utmost to protect the Ukrainian Constitution in order to protect the rule of law in order to protect state property in order to protect the interests of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u54	And thank you, but you have deceived me. Matvienkov did not give you the word. Melniczuk, please. He's got Samloylik behind him. You're handing over Matvienko? Please. Then we will restore justice. Please, Matvienkov. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u55	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, Ukraine is now under the spotlight not only of the people of Ukraine but also of the whole world, because of the artificial conflict that some people have not received some portfolios, it has indeed turned into a major crisis, the most serious political crisis that cannot be found today, not only by the parties of Ukraine but also by the facilitators involved. Today, in elections, as some certain hopes have been placed in the panacea that the elections will lead us out of the situation, will lead us out of the impasse that has arisen to this day. But I think those who make these proposals today simply do not imagine that they will begin in the country if they are now thrown into chaos and elections, and that process will begin. I don't want to comment on these things today. I'm getting a little confused today. The economic response to all of this is instantaneous. You will see what is happening today with the economic processes in our Power. We have barely begun to pick up turnover, and barely the economy has begun to recover and to pick up a planned one, so to speak, the recovery mechanism, as we have put in place after this political situation, is currently beginning to react to the economic component. Today, the investor has measured, today the cost of our stocks, leading enterprises, has been catastrophically reduced in stock markets, today in virtually consumer markets prices for the first food and consumption, and so on. Is it true that someone's political ambition is that we're going to dump the country again five, seven, ten years ago and we're going to start getting out of the pit that we're going to fall into? Are those people who are retired, teachers, doctors, budgeted, their wages, their well-being worth someone's ambitions of political dissatisfaction? Can we not find common sense in order to get the country out of the situation? I have a proposal for this category of people. I have a proposal for the President. Dear Victor Andreevich, distinguished opponents, so to speak, ours, 500 million dollars.Oh, my God! Let's give this money in advance of May 9th to the children of war. These are the people who have truly worked to rebuild our nation, to rebuild our economy, who have restored the economy in the post-war period, the people we have offended as a result, so to speak, the contributions that have been lost to the contributions they have collected on the last day. This money will benefit them, I believe, and it will be more, so to speak, a gift for our Power than extraordinary elections, which will become permanent, which will lead to absolutely nothing, because none of the losers will accept it, and we will simply lose parliamentaryism and throw the country into permanent elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u56	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, please. Next Matthew, Yaduh.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u57	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear colleagues, all who listen to us! In our country, you all feel a heart, a creeping betrayal takes place. And they are taking the lead in calling the traitors of the people of Ukraine Timoshenko, Lucenko, Kirilenko. Regrettably, in opposition to Ukraine, to the people of Ukraine, to our country, the President of Ukraine became the national interests of Ukraine. Where did you see the head of state destroy the state? Where did you see the Head of State divide the people into his own and a foreigner? Where else does the Head of State support those political forces that destabilize the situation in a country that defies the choice of the Ukrainian people? The revisionist requires a review of everything that does not match the ideas of usurpation. So isn't it time to go back to the third round of the President's election? Where is he in the Constitution of Ukraine? Where is this third tour in the Ukrainian Presidential Election Act? We ask you to stop! The people will never forgive! Traitors in our country have always been despised, and they are not in human memory. When I and Baburin, Kravchenko, Karakai, Polishtuk and Kovtunenko took the initiative to consider the issue of security, the prevention of anti-constitutional actions and attempts to usurp state authority and the initiation of the procedure for the removal of the President in the order of impeachment of Yustenak Viktor Andrivovich. You can read the text, an explanatory note on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. You and I must fulfill our responsibility to protect our earth from destruction, to protect the national interests of our nation. Today, the biggest signal for us is the actions of the President of Ukraine. Dear listeners, there will be a celebration of May 1st. I urge everyone to stand up for the country, to stand up for the right to work. Where are the five million jobs promised? To protect the right to learn from our children. Veterans of the Great Homeland War, who have thousands of times looked death into the eyes that have liberated our cities and villages from the Fascist invasion, come along with us, along with representatives of the coalition on the square of our cities. Let's go out and say no to rematch, no to fascism in Ukraine. May, spring, work must prevail in our country. I think on May 1st we will show the unity of our people. And that will be the answer to those who want it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u58	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Yes, Matthew, Yaduha is not. Galunenko, too. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u59	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, I would like once again to return to the real ones -- I stress this word -- the real reasons for the Ukrainian President's decree to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the term. For me, as for most of the deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the vast majority of the people of Ukraine, it is absolutely unconstitutional, that is, one that has been issued in violation of the Constitution of Ukraine. And the main reason for his appearance is the welfare of the Washington Department of Human Resources and the symbol of the orange riot, the ordenophone, the member of our Ukraine, the grandmother of Parasky. But there's another, an internal argument that caused these decrees to come into existence. I propose to look at these instructions because of the prism of a series of internal problems. President Yushchenko is frightened, once again by this word, by the active social policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to protect the most disadvantaged groups. For example, at the suggestion of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, which I have the honour to lead, a number of changes have been made in April to the current legislation in terms of strengthening social protection and improving the pensions of the most disadvantaged groups. In particular, this applies to the expansion of the group of persons who have acquired entitlements to a basic pension on the basis of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, the first reading of the adopted amendments to a number of laws on the introduction of the cumulative component of pension insurance and so on. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by its decision, increased the number of pensions in a number of categories of Ukrainian citizens to increase pensions by about 1.5 million pensioners, veterans, and disabled persons. And this list can be continued. So the President of Ukraine was afraid that a little time would pass and that an orange nightmare would be mentioned as a scary, nightmarish dream. Here's the real driving force of the anti-constitutional rebellion that's happening in Ukraine, that's where the truth that the people of Ukraine need to know is where it is. What are these orange rebels afraid of? I ask you to bear in mind this, pensioners, veterans and disabled persons, whose problems are of special concern to the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-27-m0.u60	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, all who wanted to take part in the “Variance” issue, had the opportunity to do so, so we will conclude our meeting. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. In accordance with our decision, on Monday at 10 a.m., we will meet with you at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, where we will discuss with other issues the issue of amending the Ukrainian State Budget for 2007. It will be, it will be. Don't worry, it will. And the committee will be. It'll be all right, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Good-bye.
