ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, representatives of the media – “the Supreme Chamber”, as we call it, guests invited by the Supreme Council. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. With your permission, we'll wait a few minutes, probably because there's no faction. Are we working? Well, if we're working, please turn on the "Council" system, please register. [[10:03:20]] In the session hall, 287 members of the people were registered. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. I think it'll be more in a few minutes. The Presidium is the majority. Dear colleagues, let us welcome today the birthday of our colleagues: Vladimir Dmitrovich Bondarenko, who now has two fives. [[Applause]] Julia Viktorovna Kovalova. [[Applause]] And Holy Basilovich of the Oliynik. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, if I am not mistaken, we have 27 articles of the Rules, which obliges the presiding officer to report missing during the session. But it is usually the case that documents indicate that a person in a mission or hospital is served by a secretary and a member of a member of the committee is present in the hall. So please, I'm going to call the names of the national MPs who are on board or in hospitals. If you are present in the session room, please state your presence, because, once again, I emphasize, there may be inconsistencies. The direction of the head of the apparatus to France, the Republic of Paris from December 2nd to December 6th should be at the disposal of the school of Andrew. So far I've been. Yes, they do. Well. And at the hospital, at the hospital, please, Alexander Mikolaiovich Bondar, Skutak Zinovy Vasilovich, Spodarenko Ivan Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, please don't insult me again, I said in advance that quite often the information provided by the Secretariat doesn't answer, because the MPs for some reason or other are present. I can't make a comment to the Secretariat because they provide accurate information. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I can't go to the Secretariat to see if a colleague of Bondar's has come from the hospital and is in the session room. Once again, I repeat, the medical department of the State Administration reports that the state of health at 9 am 4.12 is in clinic No. 1 Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, National Deputy of Ukraine, sick date 16.11, Oriental statement 31.12. Belief in those present in the session room. I can't do that. Dear colleagues! Don't make trouble on the spot. I confirm that Bondar is in the workplace. I can't make a note. And the school isn't in the dispatch, it's in the session room. Dear colleagues, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, and messages. Given that we have 30 minutes of writing the Rules, we did not know how many factions there will be in the Supreme Council, so I suggest that we have already had such a tradition, not for 3 minutes as the Rules did, but allow authorized factions to speak for 5 minutes. Is there no objection? Whoever's behind this proposal, please vote. Three minutes to five factions. Please vote. [[10:08:01]] For 359 Decision taken. I mean, factions will be able to speak within five minutes. Please register with the factions who want to participate in the factions. Yeah, point it at the board. It's on the board. Please, Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction. Prepare Pauline, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u2	Respectable voters, respected colleagues, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Congress is beginning its work under extremely difficult conditions, as Ukraine has already seen. The early parliamentary elections, contrary to the Constitution, the common sense imposed on our country by the President and his environment, have not solved any of the most pressing problems facing society. Moreover, many of them have been greatly exacerbated by certain arrangements between large business representatives. The crisis of Ukrainian statehood is escalating, the Government and the justice system are actually paralyzed, and political rights and freedoms of citizens are being openly attacked. By unleashing a dirty war against the monuments and traditions of the Soviet past. Having made a cynical splash on the bones of our ancestors, it insidiously distorts our position, the Comparty, as to the tragedy of the hunger of the 32rd to 33rd years. The threat of neo-Fascist nationalist dictatorship is becoming increasingly real. The impact on the institutions of public authority imposed by the President in April and subsequent months of this year has resulted in a gross increase in retail prices and utility tariffs. This growth is caused by the paralysis of the country's governance system, artificially caused by orange travels and repeatedly reinforced by the criminal acts of large businesses using it and as a tool for personal enrichment and as a tool in the struggle for power. The price jump has become a tragedy for our people, and in the face of a deterioration of relations with Russia and a possible increase in gas prices, the scale of the national disaster is at risk. Today, the whole country sees the Orange promise that early parliamentary elections will give Ukraine political and economic stability as a bluff. The newly elected Supreme Council has been trying to make the President's Secretariat a powerless addition before its work. The groups in Parliament included cynical trade in principles, portfolios and pre-election promises. In the meantime, the family and our people are moving toward destruction. In this most difficult situation, our party and our faction, the Company, declares that we, the Communists, in the Supreme Council, will consistently pursue the programme with which we went to the elections, namely the immediate cessation of violations of the Constitution and the resignation of Yushchenko with the subsequent abolition of the presidency, this continuation of political reform, this establishment of strict State control over prices and tariffs for public and transport services, this bringing wages, pensions, scholarships, social benefits into line with the real cost of life, this and the rapid return in cash of contributions stolen by the State to the population in 1992. And the Company's faction has prepared a proposal, and they already exist in the Supreme Council. This is also an increase in the share of wages in the value of the products produced, of course, against the sale of agricultural land, and a definitive ban on the sale of land to foreigners. All these proposals were prepared by the faction of the company and also suggested that they be considered expeditiously. This includes the establishment of an effective, State-wide popular control system, the election of judges by the people, the elimination of regional district administrations, the holding of an all-Ukrainian referendum on the feasibility of Ukraine's accession to NATO. As we can see, our proposals, our compromises, they are specific, they meet the challenges of time, they meet the sentiments of many Ukrainian citizens. We certainly propose and remove the acute problems of recognition of the Russian language as the second State and propose to consider the changes in the Constitution. We propose today to end the war on the monuments and fine works of our ancestors, those who have indeed built an independent Ukraine, and to stop any attempt today to rehabilitate those who have helped the fascists in the Great Homeland War, that is, the UN-OPA. Communists in the Supreme Council will make sure that we are all people's deputies, all parliamentary factions act and vote in accordance with the promises we have made to the people of Ukraine. And in closing my statement, once again, I would like to stress that the faction of the Company has come to the Supreme Council to protect the interests of the destitute people, to resolve issues precisely in the interests of those who today want to live in an independent State of Ukraine and want to do exactly what characterizes what we are talking about in terms of our independence and the future, about the vital level of our citizens. The Communist faction will stand firm for its interests, and on behalf of our constituents, in fact, will be the people's controller for the fulfillment of the promises of others.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u3	Yes, Pavlenko is transmitting to Zarubinsky Oleg, please, the faction of the Block of Lithuania. He will be followed by Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, honourable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished representatives of the media are present in the session hall, the work of parliament, on the one hand, did not begin. And this is because, unfortunately, we are witnesses to this, it is not a question of the meaningful work of the national institution -- the Ukrainian Parliament -- in accordance with the Constitution, the only legislative body, and in accordance with the Constitution, the higher representative body of authority. On the first day, it's about intrigue, about the distribution of jobs, about trying to throw each other representatives or allies, or they think they're opponents, but it's all about the background that the key problems of Ukrainian society, the key problems that are being exacerbated today, not only are not being solved, they're not even being approached by parliamentarians. It seems to me that if this continues, this could be a general crisis of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, because today, and I have to say this, the question of Parliament's own status as an independent branch of power, the question of the status of parliamentaryism as one of the branches in the distribution of power, what we call democracy, is levelled, discredited and discriminated against. Parliament wants to draw as some kind of bridge in relations between other branches of government. This is a wrong position, a position that, once again, discredits and devastates the importance of Parliament in Ukrainian society as an independent, active and effective national institution. But the problem is that the issues that are the most acute for the country today, I'm deliberately repeating, under the influence of this sub-kimmed interfractional struggle for positions, for chairs, for portfolios, come out, not only in the second, but in the third, for the tenth plan. I would like to give just two examples of what is left out of the attention of honourable parliamentarians. The block of Lithuania warned that the situation in Ukraine today in the field of land relations is similar to Palermo. A few days ago, in Ukraine, a man was killed just for defending the interests of the peasants; for defending the legal rights of those who had land resources against the plots of the land, against the speculatives on the land. She was killed. We warned that the main stage of the battle for the earth had begun in Ukraine, and the prospects of the people in that battle were premeditated. We said a few months ago that there was an increase in the likelihood of sharp collisions and even blood. When people are taken away from the earth, not only are they being robbed but they are denied faith in future prosperity, depriving them of dignity and a sense of protection. Instead, today’s authorities do nothing to end the legalized and seminal channels of the Ukrainian land. On the contrary, everything is being done to bring the village to its final ruin and to take the land of the people. The attitude towards land injustice, the treatment of corrupt officials and fraudulent firms that rob peasants of land is becoming lacquer paper for political forces. Whose side are these political powers on? Whose interests do they advocate? Spoiled land plots or millions of ordinary Ukrainian peasants who are unwittingly deceived? And one more question I would like to raise, given the Rules. It's about those people, the millions of people that everyone talked about very actively during the election campaign. About millions of our fellow citizens who are forced to work abroad. They remain in a situation of seduction, lack of real legal protection in the countries of residence. The faction of the Block of Lithuania addressed the President of Ukraine as heads of state with a proposal to do specific things to facilitate the fate of our fellow citizens. In particular: to undertake a thorough analysis of the situation in this area and to take urgent corrective action; to prioritize the activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the following year the revitalization of treaty-making with those countries where our people are; to take steps to eliminate the monopoly in counting the money of these people into the home country, the relatives who are today. In short, we invite you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. He will be followed by Paul the Silent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. We are convinced that all the political forces involved in the early parliamentary elections have recognized the absolute legality and unquestionably appropriateness of such elections. We believe that, in a successful coincidence and in a responsible political position, these early parliamentary elections can give a new quality of parliamentaryism and a new quality of Ukrainian politics in general. With the rest, one of the results of the elections is absolutely obvious, but the political power that betrayed its electorate, who failed to keep the promises made to them during the last election campaign, is now out of Parliament and here justice prevails. The "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" faction from the beginning after the end of the parliamentary campaign proposed and proposes a new type of cooperation and interaction between the parliamentary majority and the opposition. We are convinced that such opposition, which has taken place in the past Parliament, once again by virtue of the council with which that Parliament began to work, should not be in the current calling. That's why we leave behind all the proposals that we make in the parliamentary opposition so that the important controls of opposition by the majority are as effective as possible. And at the level of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers, and at other social and social levels. It's a shame that the parliamentary opposition and the minority factions are rejecting this extended arm because we see a completely new format of cooperation between the parliamentary coalition and the parliamentary minority. The President of Ukraine also stated on October 3rd this year that the principle is a new quality of parliamentaryism, which is involved in the fruitful interaction of the parliamentary majority and the parliamentary opposition. I think that once the key to this interaction is found, we can talk about the new quality of the work of the newly elected Supreme Council. At the same time, for our bloc, under any circumstances, it is a priority and a requirement for action to fulfill our electoral promises. And so by creating a democratic coalition, we will, from the very first days of the work of a new democratic government, insist on the adoption of laws that will allow us to implement the electoral agenda. And these are, above all, the laws on the abolition of parliamentary immunity, the abolition of parliamentary benefits and privileges, the laws that will allow all of President Yushchenk's social initiatives to increase salaries, pensions, military support, scholarships for students and so on. While, of course, it would be good if this Parliament had entered history as a parliament of serious economic reforms. Therefore, all the political forces that are responsible for the Ukrainian economy should soon concentrate on the adoption of a new tax code, which will unlock, above all, the medium-sized business and allow those who want to pay their employees, pay money to the budget, and do not depend on any political group or clan. And this is a fundamental task for the newly elected parliament. Budget reform is an absolute priority, and without such reform we will not be able to talk about the new quality of local self-government. We all, all the parties that participated in the elections, talked about what authority and money should be put in place. Let's adopt a new edition of the Budget Code and then the mandate, and the money will really be in place, and we'll take down the left-hand side of the contradictions that are happening here in Parliament. But with regard to the powers that really should have been the mandates of the communities for a long time. And we are certainly doomed to ensure the unity of the Ukrainian people, and in this sense President Yushchenko's humanitarian initiatives deserve unconditional support. And those who have not yet understood them will understand later. And unity will be, there will be economic reforms, there will be unity, there will be a new democratic majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u7	From the Julia Timoshenko Faction, Julia Volodymyrna herself speaks, please. Get ready for Dryma. It's acid. It's okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u8	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I'd like to start a little off the books. Because we all know that there was a third, practically tragic explosion on the West Mine and people died again. I think it's an extraordinary event for Ukraine. And enough with the tongues to clap for the coal industry, and you really need to see that corruption in this area has left nothing, not even the lives of miners. And I would like to begin now with a moment of silence to honor the memory of those miners who died on the ambush mine and give them their dues in this hall for being so bullied.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u9	Please honor the moment of silence. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u10	Thank you. And I think the first thing our Supreme Council has to do after the election of the Supreme Council leadership is to create a temporary commission of inquiry that just has to take over every single piece of Parliamentary control, every bracelet that's been taken out of a budget that hasn't reached the miners. To check how the money was spent by the mines themselves, when the equipment was purchased 5-7 times more expensive and the miners did not get the money back, including their safety. I believe that this is the first task that Parliament must carry out with dignity. [[Applause]] And now, with regard to political issues. You and I have heard many reports before the election of this council: that the elections will not change anything, that Parliament will remain as it is, that power will remain as it was. Today we can obviously see that Parliament has changed, a democratic coalition created in the Supreme Council, and I welcome you all. And beyond the sequence, honesty and morality of the two factions that created the coalition depends on how this democratic coalition lives, it will bear the responsibility it has taken to society and whether it is capable of carrying out its task. I believe that this time all of our colleagues are aware of their responsibilities, responsibilities, and assignments, and we will move as one full, powerful team. Today you know that we have the first step, the first decisive event is the election of the Head of the Supreme Council. And I fully share the position of my colleague Kirilenko Viacheslav that we need to share equally in proportion, honestly, the power of Parliament between power and opposition, between the majority and the minority. And so, as a first step, we could propose the office of one of the deputy heads of the Supreme Council of Opposition. And so that there is no doubt that most will live up to these obligations, as stipulated in the Rules, to vote by secret ballots, but to vote in favour of Parliament’s presidency at the same time. I believe that this will be the first step that will demonstrate the will of the majority in the Supreme Council to grant control rights, in keeping with all the procedures in the Rules to give up opposition. We are still prepared to adopt one of the first drafts of the opposition bill, which will be consistent with the minority in the Supreme Council, which will allow the opposition to carry out an extremely important function of control over every step of power. The financial actions of the authorities, the organizational actions of the authorities, the decisions of the authorities must be under the control of the parliamentary opposition. Our political power does not change its principles, so we will unanimously vote in favour of an opposition bill. I believe that today is the first day, the first step, when we must, by our joint vote, prove the power of the democratic coalition. I wish all of us success, and I believe that we will pass this exam with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u11	Please, Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u12	Dear compatriots, almost 10 months in Ukraine, the Supreme Council, the supreme legislative body of the state, is not working. International agreements are not ratified, laws are not passed, laws are threatened to break the 2008 budget, political instability is making investments in Ukraine's economy shrink, and inflation, a discredited idea of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, is on the rise. A party of regions warned that early parliamentary elections would virtually not change the political timetable of the Supreme Council, and the results of the elections fully confirmed our predictions. Election initiators promised that early parliamentary elections would bring political stability to the country and long - awaited prosperity to the people. What do we really have? Most of the promises that our citizens made generously, explaining the need for elections, began to be abandoned the day after their completion. And polling public opinion shows the Ukrainian people's disillusionment with the possibility of any political stability in Ukraine. What are some of the achievements of orange politics? They managed to tap the so - called democratic coalition by means of threats, blackmail, outright dirt, and mounted lies. But their 227 votes are not just unstable, they're an inactive coalition that can't work effectively for the development of the state, and society will get political and economic instability, disorganization of the work of the Supreme Council in the entire vertical of power and, as a result, the final defolt of the orange parties that have created the majority in Parliament. Today, they face a fundamental challenge for themselves, not for the people, to the barrier, to the problem of which one of them sits. It is not in principle for them to have been in these chairs and have shown their complete incapacity. But that is why they have put the country in a political crisis in order to return to the high chairs and push the country back into the early elections. Once they have crossed the Constitution, they feel that they can do so all the time. Today they are about to elect the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, violating regulations. We warn those who want to try to break Ukraine's rules and laws by voting for the Supreme Council head with cards in the open voting room today. Gentlemen, if you'd like to vote in the future for the Chief of the Supreme Council in the Hall with cards, not ballots, as provided for by the rules in force, please. But only after the regulations have been amended. And as long as these changes are not made, we won't have to break the rules. Moreover, today the faction of the Party of the Regions will not take part in a farce called the Orange Coalition by the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Unfortunately, most of our colleagues remained dissatisfied with the candidate’s responses to the Supreme Council of Ukraine when the meeting was with him this morning. And to the end. On behalf of the faction of the Party of Regions, we welcome the political power of the “One Russia” party, the multi-year political brother of the Party of Regions with undeniable victory in the elections to the State Duma of the Russian Federation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u13	Yes, dear fellows, time is up. There's no replica. Because none of the factions that came out of the factions called any last name. So let us move on to the following questions. Dear colleagues, you and I, you know, haven't finished the question, we've only accepted it as a basis for lists and subjects of committee knowledge. Right now, we're supposed to be dealing with the election of the Head of the Supreme Council. Yesterday, the Preparatory Parliamentary Group made a unanimous decision, unanimously making a decision to finish the subject. The number of committees and objects of their knowledge and then the order of the day. No objections? Then I'm betting that it's supposed to be purity, and I'm voting on the proposal. Who would like to begin now with the Order on the List, the Quantities and the subject of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, please vote. [[10:35:33]] For 421 If you do not know how to vote, take an example from the Presidium. Just as the Presidium votes, so do you. All voted unanimously. The issue is being addressed -- the draft Ordinance on Listing, Quantitative Composition and Subject of Knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[second reading]] Registration number 1004. Reported by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Azarov Mikola Janović. Please, Mikolo Janovich. I remind you, this is the second reading. Now, Mikola Janovich is going to say the general approach, and then we're going to go after every correction separately. Each of the national MPs who made the proposals would have the right to either insist on the reasons for his amendment or agree with the decision of the MP’s Preparatory Group. What? It's about a stranger, it does. Please, Mikolo Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u14	Honourable National Deputies, on 23 November of this year at the first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, adopted the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On the List of Quantities and Subjects of Knowledge of the Sixth Call Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. Taking into account the comments made by the Ukrainian people’s deputies during the plenary session and taking into account the written suggestions made by the people’s deputies by 30 November of this year, a comparative table has been prepared. Yesterday there was a meeting of the Preparatory Deputy Group to discuss the draft Decision on the Quantification and Knowledge of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call and to analyse the observations and suggestions. During its consideration of the matter, the Preparatory MP agreed with the proposal made by the People’s Deputy of Ukraine, Sukhova, to change the turnaround in the list of committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is proposed that the names of the parliamentary committees be confirmed by the alphabetical arrangement. The preparatory group also agreed with the proposals made by the National Deputies of Stretovic, Oliynik, regarding the clarification of the subjects of knowledge of the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Legislative Protection. In addition, the Preparatory Group agreed with Deputy Sasa's proposals on clarifying the subject of the Committee's knowledge of the Rules, as well as on the subject of the Committee's knowledge of the issue of organized crime and corruption and foreign affairs. A large part of the proposals involved subjects of Committee knowledge in foreign affairs and European integration. Proposals for articles of knowledge of these committees were made by the national deputies of Belarus, Tarasyuk, Shevchuk, School, Zarubinsky, and others. And since their proposals substantially changed the subjects of the knowledge of the committees mentioned, they were accepted by the Supreme Council as a basis. I apologize because their proposals have substantially changed the subjects of knowledge of the above-mentioned committees adopted by the Supreme Council on a basis, the Preparatory Group has decided to make two choices for the Supreme Council's consideration of the distribution of subjects of knowledge of committees in foreign affairs and issues of European integration and proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine decide on this issue. Similarly, the Preparatory Group brings to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposals by the National Deputy Tikhov on the sharing of the subject of knowledge of the Committees on Legal Policy and State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government. These are suggested on the fourth and sixth pages of the compare table. The same is true of the suggestions made by the Popescu People’s Deputy, on page 24 of the Comparative Table. A number of suggestions from other national MPs have been taken into account in an editorial way. Individual proposals by national deputies that substantially change the subjects of the Committees accepted under the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of which the preparatory parliamentary group was not supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u15	Thank you, Milo Yanovich. Yes, dear colleagues, please take a comparison table and we will. [[Registration number 1004]] No, there can be no questions, for this is a second reading. We will clarify the question, Yuri Bogdanovich, in the course of the discussion of proposals. Please, the first proposal is taken into account, according to Mikola Janović, and is proposed to make a list of committees in alphabetical order. I think it'll be the fairest thing anyone has ever done. What's more, it's a constitutional norm. Remember, when the Constitution listed the ministries of Ukraine, these ministries were carried out in alphabetical order. Please, Klukkowski's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u16	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I understand the English alphabet, I know it well. But what I want to point out is that this is a list of committees and subjects for the knowledge of the National Parliament. And this is a question that's being discussed all over the world. Let us consider the order in which English is translated. I have great respect for the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, but in the vast majority of the world's parliaments, the Committee on Agriculture and Land Relations is always considered to be the first committee to be responsible for the question of the Constitution of the State. I don't see any reason to put him out there somewhere in the 12th order. So it seems to me that what was adopted earlier in the blocks: the legal committees, the economic committees, the social committees, should be preserved. You can move social with economics, I agree on the importance of social issues, but the legal committees in the legislative body have to stand first and foremost on constitutional issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we are working with you in the Parliament of the State of Ukraine, and for us, the language of the State is Ukrainian, not English. If anyone translates, it's his business, it's his business, it's his business. We work in the Ukrainian Parliament. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u18	Thank you. Adam Ivanovich, is that a question? It's an alpha, isn't it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u19	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u20	You know, there's a logic that the list of committees was really in the alphabet of Ukrainian. I cannot agree with a respected colleague that we need to consider how the alphabet, how the alphabet, will be another language. Then the most common language in the world is Chinese. I don't think the parliamentarians are going to be here right now for us to build a list of committees according to the Chinese alphabet. So there's a suggestion: in order for there to be no harm to any committee, all committees are equal, all committees are important, they need to be placed behind the alphabet of Ukrainian, clearly, not Chinese, English or Hindi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u21	Thank you. I'm voting on the proposal of a preparatory parliamentary group, please support the fact that the Committees are listed in alphabetical order. Please vote. [[10:43:45]] For 391 Thank you. Decision taken. The factions? Please, by the factions. You're welcome. Region Party – 165, “Block of Timoshenko” – 149, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 35, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 15. Reubenian amendment, please. Are you insisting? It's rejected. Zarubinsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, last time I suggested we rule out a discriminatory norm, where for some committees it is allowed to have many more deputies than in other committees. You know, we have a government, first of all, dealing with finance, issues and economics, budget issues, and I don't understand why there's such a huge desire, the same move to work on a budget committee, exactly on a financial-banking committee? Why less willing to work at the Health Committee, the Committee on Science and Education, the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, the Committee on Human Rights. Do these topics exist only before the election, during the election campaign? I insist and ask the deputies to support that there be no exceptions to any committees, regardless of their grace or anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u23	Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u24	The distinguished Zarubinski People's Chamber, we have examined the workload of the committees, i.e. how many issues each committee has raised for consideration at the High Council session, and it turns out that these two committees have on average raised approximately 3.5 times more questions at the session than any other committee. There is respect for each committee, therefore, but the workload is such that it is not by accident that these two committees have been working in a larger size than other committees for all these years. Therefore, I would ask the people's deputies to support the existing rule of the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u25	Thank you. Well, I can't say no to Sulkovsky. Please, Paul.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u26	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Adam Ivanovich, you personally wish to thank as chairman today for the previous question, I no longer took the floor, in order of the committee's alphabetical order and so on. You know, if some deputies say that constitutional or other legal committees should be at the forefront, I think it's the most expensive land in Ukraine. You can change constitutional positions and so on, you can't change the land. And when the agrarian committee is in alphabetical order today, I think it's fair and most expensive for Ukraine. It's not the most expensive. On this issue, what did the previous colleague Mr. Zarubinsky say. I don't agree, and many deputies disagree that committees have the same loads, that's not true, Your Honor, and we need to support the proposal of the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u27	Yes, please, Litwin, the Lithuanian Block faction. Then Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u28	Dear Chairman! Dear Mikola Janović, would you please tell us whether the Committees - budget, finance and banking - have considered the biggest issues and how the situation has changed for the better? To my conviction, she changed for the worse. That's the first one. And the second. The Supreme Council should be concerned with humanitarian policy. We have problems in the country because we have neglected culture and spirituality, that we have education and science, that we say nothing about human rights. We can go to three-to-four more committees, but we can't allow that we're going to try to force people into the humanitarian profile committee. Well, it will be. And the Supreme Council itself encourages this approach. Let's finally put an end to this shameful practice. And let's vote, dear fellows. There's the Cabinet of Ministers, let the Cabinet of Ministers do the work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u29	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk, BUT faction. Then Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u30	Thank you. I think the commission made the right decision as to the rejection of this proposal. I'll only give you one argument. At what pace are budgets discussed in the first, second, and final reading? When two or three thousand proposals and observations come in and they have to be processed in literally ten days, they change, they have a lot of MPs, but they work all the time. Because of this decision on the larger number of Budget Committees, it is right to decide. And I'm going to suggest that we reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u31	Please, Peter Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u32	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I will propose and the faction will vote in favour of this proposal. Why? And because today we are distorting the content of the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. Who today should make decisions to fill the state budget? Agribusiness complex, industrial policy, communications, and construction So the committees that are going to define national development policies, just the basic industries and individual enterprises, that's the first. Second, they form programs for the development of one or the other, and the government approves them. That is, the government, in shaping the budget, should act, not for certain lobbyist interests of a national MP, but on the basis of a law that is developed in the Committee on the Agricultural Complex, Industrial Policy, Defence, Transport, Communication, or Development Committees of the State. That's why I'm asking you to support this proposal and take down the iner lobbying problem at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u33	Yes, thank you. All who wanted to participate from the faction took part. I'll put it to a vote. Please listen carefully to the offer. There is a vote on the proposal of Zarubinsky's colleague, in which he proposes to withdraw in our decision that the committees, namely the two committees on budget, finance, banking, may be composed of more than 20 members of the committee. Although previous practice has consistently emphasized that there are always far more than 20. But it's up to you to vote on the proposal of a colleague of Zarubinsky. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:51:58]] For-56 The factions? Oh, that's all right, come on, faction, please. Region Party 3, Yulia Block Timoshenko - 0, Our Ukraine - Self-Defense - 7, Communists - 27, Block Lithuania - 19. Yes, please do not support an unsupported proposal. Yes, next, please. Pisarenko, 51st. Pisarenko, are you insisting? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u34	Thank you. I would like to remind you that my proposal referred to the subjects of the two committees, the Committee on Legal Policy, from which they wanted to exclude questions of organization and the activities of the executive service. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy is now concerned about the activities of the judicial bodies. In the past, we have decided that the executive service should be part of the structure of the organs of justice. This isn't the first reform in this structure, and if we're going to be losing now, let's decide that we're going to be reforming in certain structures every year. Let's understand that this is the same thing that we are now dealing with, for example, in the Committee on Justice, the question of assigning judges will be given to the Committee on Justice, and the question of discharge of judges will be referred to the Committee on Combating Organized Crime. So I propose that this subject of knowledge should be brought back to legal policy, and yet that the organs of justice should work together to address the issue of their reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u35	Thank you. Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u36	The Preparatory Group discussed this issue in detail, and the comparisons that the National MP had made correspond to the facts. Only comparable things are compared, comparable. And the logic that led the preparatory group when it rejected the proposal was that the trial was brought to a logical conclusion by the system of judicial executioners. It is therefore more logical to place this subject in the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u37	Thank you. I understand the situation, fellow believers. The point is that it is now proposed to refer to the subject of the Committee on Justice's knowledge of all that applies to the Ministry of Justice. I cannot agree with my colleague Pisarenko that the Ministry of Justice refers to the legal committee. Probably to justice, too. So please think. I'm voting on this proposal. It is up to Pisarenko to vote on the proposal to exclude from the subject of knowledge of the Justice Committee and to include in the subject of the Legal Policy Committee the question of organization and the activity of the executive service. I'd like to make a statement. [[10:55:16]] For-200 Overruled. Please, let's approach. The factions? Please. Region Party – 2, Block Timoshenko – 156, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” – 42, Communists, Block Lithuania – 0. We're approaching exactly 54 proposals -- the offer of a colleague of Tikhov. Please, Tychonov's microphone. Then we will discuss who wants to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, I insist on the amendment and ask for my support, as there is no need for a particular argument. The name of the committee consists of three sections: public policy, regional and local self-government. There's an attempt today to remove the first part. In fact, State building to remove from the work of this committee, which for many years has done so and has always justified what he has done. I am asking you to support me and to leave the issue of State construction to this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u39	Yes, thank you. Please, Klukkowski, then Matvienko. Come on, fellows of honor. Now, Yuri Bogdanovich. I'd ask for one from the faction, two from the faction. Okay, okay. No, there's another third asking for you. Please, Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u40	Thank you very much. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. First of all, I want to say that I was very happy with the result of my previous amendment. This means that from this day forward, the Supreme Council of the Sixth Council will use exclusively Ukrainian, not English, Russian, or Chinese. That is how I appreciate the unanimous vote of the Supreme Council. And now essentially the amendment. Indeed, there is a problem with committee knowledge. However, I would like to support Viktor Mikolaiovich Tikhov's argument that traditionally this committee was concerned with the issue of the legislative provision of the work of the executive branch, with the entire vertical structure. In this context, I propose to apply the method that was applied to criminal and procedural legislation, to divide this subject of knowledge between the two committees. According to the Committee of Legal Policy, leave the question of the constitutional status of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authorities. While the legislature provides for the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u41	Well, let's finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u42	Thus, legislative provisions for the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers and other executive bodies should be left with the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government. I'm asking you to support this compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u43	Please, Anatoly Matvienko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u44	The Ukrainian Republican Party of Sobor, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! We need to understand that the problem with effective authority is that we do not adhere to the principle of unity of power. And the problem with effective executive power is that if we don't take Tihonov's position into account, we break it up. What's more, we're on the verge of reforming local self-government, which means decentralisation of power, which means that large powers will be delegated by the government to the level of local self-government and today the Cabinet of Ministers with executive verticals, including the subject matter of local self-government, is illogical. That's why we really have to support the proposal: constitutional harmonisation of these bodies -- by the legal committee, by the legislative regulation of these bodies -- by the State Building Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u45	Of the other factions, please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u46	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! I propose to support Viktor Mikolaiovich Tikhov's proposal in view of the fact that we are speaking about what we will do specifically for our voters. And when we talk about the responsibility of all branches of government, we just realize that their responsibility is a real state building. I believe that we must support this proposal today and, on the contrary, allow this to happen, precisely to a committee that has constant links with local territorial communities, which is following up on those processes that are accompanying today's improvement of their power organization, aimed at strengthening their ability to influence budget formation, regional policy, public policy, precisely because of this by improving, generalizing all these proposals and introducing them as elements of public building. I think we should support Victor Mikolaiovich Tikhov's proposal today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u47	Please, Krazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u48	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! The point is, fellow dignitaries, under the definition of state building, and we've had a rather serious discussion in the preparatory group on this issue, we can bring up any knowledge, any committee. But I think that Mikola Ivanovich won't let me lie about the fact that the proposal, to refer the legal status of the Cabinet of Ministers and the organs of the Central Executive Authority to the Committee of Legal Policy, that includes his proposal. Obviously there was logic in that, and I think that the proposal that Yuri Bogdanovich is now proposing is absolutely optimal and solves this issue. As far as the legal status of the President of Ukraine is concerned, I cannot agree with this, since there is a decision by the Constitutional Court concerning the appointment of judges to the administrative office, which says that the President's powers can be solely regulated at the constitutional level and no law can govern an additional one. So I think it's absolutely certain that this is the exclusive mandate of the Legal Policy Committee. In this way, the President's status should be left to legal policy, and as far as Kabmin is concerned, the constitutional status should be left to legal policy, and the order of enforcement should be left to the State Building Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u49	Paul Gnutovich, you always talk about agrarians, you know that. Okay. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u50	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. You know, when you listen to individual national MPs who want everything and everywhere from "a" to "me" to "me" to twist, flip and so forth, it's like in Parliament more national MPs and with more experience bring something, some bad nonsense and so on. I want to tell you that the faction of the Party of Regions is proud of a veteran like Viktor Mikolaiovich Tikhov, who has devoted his entire life to practically executive authorities and local self-government. And today, really wants to make this easier, the problems that have arisen between the executive and the local authorities, I think all we have to do is thank Viktor Mikolaiovich Tikhov and support, the honourable colleagues, his proposals. And all the other young colleagues who first came to Parliament need to listen to a little bit of veterans and people who have great experience.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Paul Gnatovich, the Head of Staff, has the right to amend. I am making an amendment, everyone who has spoken out of this question to young people is unfortunately not, everyone has a fairly solid parliamentary job. Please, Mikola Yanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u52	I wanted to clarify. I reported to the Preparatory Committee. My personal opinion is that I personally support Victor Niklaevich Tikhov’s proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u53	Yes, now, dear fellows, we will vote. But I want to go to Tihonov again, please turn on the microphone. As you look at the proposal made by your colleagues, Klukkowski and Matvienko supported it. What's your position? It's compromised.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u54	I think we can agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u55	You can agree. So, your honorary colleagues, I'm going to put to the vote a proposal, an amendment to the number 54 of Tikhov, but in the editorial form proposed by the colleagues of Klutkowski and supported by Matvienko, that the constitutional status issue relates to the Committee of Legal Policy, the issue of the legislative provision of these organs refers to the Committee of State Building. Although, kill me, I don't know what the difference is between constitutional and legislative. But I'm putting this proposal to the vote. Vote. We are voting for the amendment of Tikhov with the proposals of Klukkowski. [[11:04:43]] For 397 Copy that. I'm not jealous of who's going to write these pieces of legislation. Yes, the Olynic is 69. Is there no objection? No, it's not. Yes, Tikhov is down 73. Don't you insist? No, it's not. Yes, in fact, dear colleagues, you and I have already taken this into account. Is he insisting? 73, please, Tikhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u56	I insist on this point because we, he responds to what we've just been looking at. And we have to put it to a vote. Besides, you know, there are virtually all committees in other countries where it's written that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is not a police department and it's dealing with the internal affairs of countries. And to put it, and it was still on this committee, defining the principles of internal politics. We've looked into it and done it before. And I ask my colleagues to support and put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u57	Dear colleagues, look at this amendment 73, there are three positions here and we'll be separate from each other so that we don't mix. If you look at the first offer, I don't see much here. We have the organization and the activities of the organs, and they offer organizations. I don't think there's any objection? Not about the word "system"? There is a Knyazevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u58	The point is that the parentheses need to change the wording, because we left the legal status behind the legal committee and the legislative provision behind. Then it should be written: “Except for matters relating to the status of the executive authorities, which are referred to the committee of another”. Or even remove it from the parentheses.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u59	No, it may be clear that except for those who do not. Yeah? Dear colleagues, shall we agree with this word "systems"? There's no objection. Now we have voted in an editorial that Klukkowski introduced and agreed to by Tikhov. Now, the definition of the principles of internal politics. That is, it is suggested that the definition of the principles of domestic policy should refer to the subject of knowledge of the State Building Committee. It's not right, because economic policy has more to do with domestic politics. Yes, who would like to make a statement from the factions, please. I see a lot, sign up for one faction at a time. Yes, please, one from the faction. Alexeyev, there's Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u60	Please pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u61	Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u62	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this position from the following point of view: when we talk about internal politics, we also have with you social issues that touch or support our children's children, women's, pensioners, whether it's a problem that relates to the humanitarian sphere, that is, the development of the same regions and regional policies in the regions when we talk about health protection when we talk about environmental protection or when it touches on the problems of the Chernobyl disaster. So this committee, which should generalize the general public approach to internal politics, I'm having a conversation about it, and each committee will look separately at certain directions and make specific proposals to this committee already, let's say, concrete proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u63	Please, Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”, followed by Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u64	Dear colleagues, the definition of the principles of internal and external politics is known to be the prerogative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. First position. Second position. Right, Adam Ivanovich, you have noticed that internal politics is far more than the sphere of authority of this highly respected committee. In fact, all the Supreme Council committees in their mandates have a sequencing or fragmentation of the principles of Ukraine’s internal policy. So this has to be done entirely with another mechanism. In order to define these principles, a special commission of the Supreme Council should be established, which should include not only representatives of different political powers, but representatives of the various committees and the Agrarian Committee for which Sulkovski is speaking and the Committee for Economic Policy and Budget and State Building and so forth. So I think it's just inappropriate for one committee to give authority to produce a document that is really a synthesis document or an integral document of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u65	Please, Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u66	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. I'd like, in fact, only, of course, without any warnings of validity or invalidity, to support Zarubinsky's colleague. This is an ancient dispute over how the Supreme Council determines the principles of internal politics. My deep conviction is that it does this in every single act of its own. Because there is no legislative act that has no bearing on the principles of the state’s activity and the policy that is being implemented. So I strongly believe that there is no reason to refer to the authority of a committee on the whole of internal politics. I really think that economic and social policy in domestic politics is much more than legal policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u67	Oleg Belarus, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, I support the colleagues who have spoken. The question is very important. Today, Ukraine has neither a national development strategy for twenty - five years nor an external and internal policy principle, and this is totally unacceptable. But with regard to the committee’s credentials, as colleagues have explained, we cannot give one committee such extraordinary powers. The principles of internal and external politics are determined by the Supreme Council. But also Klukkowski's right, when he said that every act of his own and every act of the Supreme Council was to be held accountable, would have to be accepted in the form of a doctrine or concept of a single document. We must do so and unite around it to all the factions. So I support this position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u69	Thank you. Mikola Janović, please. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u70	Well, in the working group, yes, actually, and it was said that the concept of domestic policy was so multifaceted that it would only be illogical and inappropriate to write into the subject matter of the Committee's knowledge. The working group therefore suggested that the amendment be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u71	I am voting on the Tikhov amendment to refer to the subjects of the State Building Committee to define the principles of internal policy. [[11:13:36]] For 184 No decision taken. The factions. Party of Regions – 155, “Block of Timoshenko”, “Our Ukraine” – none, Communists – 27, “Block of Lithuania” – 2. And another amendment. “Statute and activities of political parties, other associations of citizens”. Rejected, because we offer “the status and activities of political parties, other associations of citizens other than those whose activities are related to the knowledge of other committees. The Tikhov don't deny, that is, we don't vote. Yes, the reform of Stretovich 87 is taken into account in an editorial way. Don't insist. The oil man is accounted for. Behiz is rejected. Well, unfortunately, that's what the name of the committee says, Valeriy Anatoliyovich agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u72	What's that? 80 taken into account with editorial detail. It's a Tihonova correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u73	Note? Who's got a note? At Pisarenko? Mishchenka, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I want to draw your attention to the wording of this amendment. If the Working Group on another committee, I think, correctly, logically, legally correctly formulated this issue, i.e., in the Committee to Combat Organized Crime and Corruption of Appointment and Deprivation of office related to the subject matter of knowledge in cases provided for by law. Therefore, logically and legally, it would also be right for the same committee to state: Assignment under the law of release. Why? I believe that what is provided for by the Constitution, by law, and by the Supreme Council should appoint and release the relevant officials. We cannot go beyond the law and the Constitution. So I think that in the first case I said that the working group was right about this situation, and this amendment should have the same position under the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u75	You're right, but half. Half because the committee you mentioned was actually legally established by special law. There is no such special law that regulates the legal principles of a committee’s activity. It is the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Act that gives preference to a single committee, while in addition to the laws of the Supreme Council, there is an internal law – the Rules. And according to the Rules, each of our committees is subject to certain positions, especially with regard to the State Building Committee, which is what it means to appoint and release the Cabinet of Ministers. So this right over here, let's agree. Agreed. Correction Pisarenko 98. Please, do you have it? Writer's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u76	Adam Ivanovich, this is the same amendment as Mishchenko just said. But I would take it off because of what was added in the cases provided for. What are we talking about? In the past, if you remember, several decrees have been made on objects of knowledge, according to which the formulation of consent and appointment was based. Taking such decisions into account in the previous convocation, it was noted that this was unconstitutional. Today, we cannot give the assignment of all things related to the subject of knowledge. Today, we can only agree on what is provided by law. So let us not extend the scope of these authorizations to the consent of the cleaning lady and the department chiefs to the knowledge of the committees, but let us just do what is prescribed by law. That's why I want to take 98 off because there are additions, and by all other notes, I want to add: "in cases provided for by law". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u77	Thank you. I've got the amendment removed. So he agrees with what the preparatory group is proposing. Sass, accounted for. It's a Belarus. Now, dear colleagues, open 123 and the following amendments are still coming up to one point in connection with the subjects of the two committees. We agreed, I think it's the right thing to do, and we've basically created another agreeable subgroup of authors of amendments on the distribution of subjects of two committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Euro-Integration. There's option one, look, and option two. For the first option here, it's clear, this is the proposal we've been proposing. As for the second option and the first one, please sign up from the factions on these two options. And I'll give the author, I'll give the author, and then from the factions to prepare. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk and then Oleg Grigorovich Belarus, and then the factions. Please, Boris Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u78	Honorary colleagues, in fact, have tried to fill the gap that existed during the work of these committees in the Supreme Council of the Fourth and Fifth Council. We agreed on the distribution of powers between the two committees, and I propose that the Supreme Council support a second option in the subjects of the Committee's knowledge in foreign affairs, as well as a second option in the subjects of the Committee's knowledge of European integration. I ask you to put these two committees to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Please, Oleg Billrus, then from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues, I agree mainly with what Boris Ivanovich said. We really worked on that question yesterday and after meeting the subgroup, the preparatory working group and separately at the meeting. There's only one little detail, it's about the control function of the Committee in foreign affairs. There are two points: one is holding consultations on ambassadors' candidatures, and the other is simply written in the second version of the preparatory group: the diplomatic service. We have to write here -- control the activities of the diplomatic service, or we're going to give extra powers to the committee. We don't run the diplomatic service, we don't create it, we just control it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u81	Yes, the authors spoke. Please, Hanna Herman, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u82	I propose to listen to the shared view that we have reached, and I also insist that control over diplomatic service, as well as control, the issue of consent, the appointment of follow-up remain with the Committee in foreign affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u83	Thank you. Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u84	Yuri Karmazin, "Our Ukraine – Self-Defense", Party of Protectors of the Homeland. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I think we should vote and count option two. I want to thank the group for giving us good options, because that's where both the external relations and the activities of the international organizations are listed, all of them. The only thing that needs to be taken into account here is the offer of Belarus, the word “control” is to be written down so that we do not extend or assign, acquire those powers that are not in Parliament. As far as European integration is concerned, I would like us to think about the future, just thinking about it: and what do we have to integrate into Europe? What about the world? And all the rest of the world? And if so, and we predict it, we don't predict it in the name. Let's probably go beyond Europe even though in names and thoughts, then maybe there'll be a whole different life in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u85	Baby, please. Butt.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u86	Please pass the word to Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u87	Sergei Shevchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Oleg, for passing the word. I also made a certain amendment that was rejected, it applied to cross-border cooperation, but I want to emphasize that thanks to the fruitful work of the representatives of the two committees, such as Boris Tarasyuk and Oleg Belarus, there was an optimal option that I think could put an end to the traditional disputes between the mandates of the two committees. So I take my amendment off and I think we should vote in favour of Option 2 on the competence of the Foreign Affairs Committee and Option 2 on the European Integration Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u89	Yes, please, Zarubinsky. Then Simonenko. And we'll figure it out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you know, in the last summons, more specifically in the fourth, I was a witness as between the Committee on European Integration and in foreign affairs, in fact, a struggle for authorization. It's been going on long enough during the actual entire fourth call, and I'm saying that if representatives, and I'm thinking that the people who made the amendments, are actually going to work at the Committee on Euro-integration and in foreign affairs have agreed to a consensus or compromise decision, I think what was proposed for the second option is this synthesized option is obviously optimal. So I think if we support the second option right now, one by one, and the other by the second committee, these committees can work in a calm, non-extractive way during the entire call, which is a positive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u91	Please, Simonenko. The Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u92	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction calls for a vote in the first place, and why. First of all, we have to be consistent. And when we look at the authority or subject of knowledge of the State Building Committee, we've turned down questions about internal politics. And I support the position of those deputies who support the need for the adoption of the Basic Principles of Internal and External Policy Act. And this document defines our direction. Secondly, this detail, which is provided in the second version, will continue to drive society down, because certain political mechanisms will use the capabilities of already national MPs to replace the will of the people that he has not yet expressed, with regard to NATO or other structural organizations. Next. When it is recorded that international treaties, ratifications, and so forth are agreed upon, it is a position and function throughout the Supreme Council. We have to have one policy. So I only propose the first choice of voting and supporting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u93	Thank you. The exchange took place. Now we're going to vote on the options. Which one of them gets the majority, then we'll see how we work on it. I'm voting on the proposal: to support the first option. Please vote. [[11:27:12]] For-30 Yeah, by faction, it's clear. “Regions” – 1, Block Timoshenko – 0, “Our Ukraine” – 2, Communists – 27, Block Lithuania – 0. So, dear fellows, we're looking at it. Hold on, Andrew. Calm down! We're going to consider the second option, but the second option also has some adjustments. So we're going through these revisions of the second and then we're going. Yes, “legislative provision of external political activity”—no objection, no objection? Yes, "external relations," and this is where organizations are deciphered. I think there's no objection. None. Cross-border cooperation, in addition to “transport and inter-regional cooperation with the countries of the European Union”, will be the subject of a European integration committee. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, here we are with you, seeing that we have two policies in relation to cross-border cooperation: the European Union is one, and let's say, in Asia, Latin America -- this is going to be another. Well, I'm sorry, this betrayal will be of national interest. Because this lobbying is going to be some financial and industrial groupings and oligarchs, using those or other possibilities to take advantage of government interests in their own pockets. So I'm proposing not to support the second option, but to vote for the first option, where we have a national, state policy, not a policy of certain, let's say, political groups that are trying to do all of that today. that they promised their masters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u95	I put to the vote a proposal, a second option for cross-border and inter-regional cooperation, except for cross-border and inter-regional cooperation with the European Union. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:29:27]] For 380 There's a broad coalition. Yes, “ratifications, halting their actions, except for Ukraine’s treaties with the European Union and its member states”. Is there a denial? Please. Huh? No, it's not. Editorial clarification, but everyone has the right, even what we have supported, to deny. Please, Knyazevich. Unfortunately, this is the rule. Knazevitch, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u96	Adam Ivanovich, I don't deny it. I would still urge my colleagues to re-create the constitutional standard here. The point is that 30, which, part 32, of the first article 85 of the Constitution, states that giving the law consent to the obligations of Ukraine's international treaties and the denunciation of Ukraine's international treaties. We re-created the first part of the constitutional standard, and instead of the denunciation, we wrote: stopping and stopping. I would think so, because in the first part we're deciphering in the mattresses, this is also about denunciation. And as a type of denunciation, maybe I don't mind deciphering what you're saying in parentheses, because just to forget about constitutional norms, I don't think that would be quite right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u97	Yeah, one from the factions. Belarus, please. School, we'll get to your correction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u98	I agree with a colleague who spoke. Denunciation is a classic expression, understood by everyone, at least by those involved in international affairs, and clarified by stopping or stopping. It's for the general public. I think you can agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u99	Mr. Cranowil Viacheslav, please. Simonenko, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, I speak only my personal position, in this case not from the faction. I'm an opponent, actually, of the second whole chapter. We're ruining Ukraine's foreign policy course, as I am. Colleague Simonenko spoke, there's a practice of distributing a single field of our constitutional functions of foreign policy between two completely different committees, and there will be two levels of standards. With regard to the item on the ratification of treaty approval, at least I would ask in parentheses not to make a treaty with the European Union and Member States, but to make, in addition to the international treaties that fall under the knowledge of the Committee on European Integration, that is, the direct integration of Ukraine into the European Union. [[We have a sea of treaties that have nothing to do with Euro-integration.]] With the European Union and its members, we can also agree on helping Angola or any other country, not about integration interests.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u101	Please, Simonenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u102	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I repeat, my fellow Members, yours that we are now imposing very serious contradictions, and I will now illustrate them to you when you vote for the second option. Now we're talking about contracts and, so to speak, the obligation of them, that is to refer to the competence of this committee. Transnational cooperation, NATO is written here. And the European Union, what, does not include such a large number of NATO countries? So you're going to be on one committee, you're going to be doing one policy, you're going to be doing another policy, you're going to be doing another policy, so let's say. Then you won't understand. So I suggest you, Your Honor, give up your offer, which you've been detailing. When, as it were, the people of Ukraine did not determine whether or not to join NATO, and the committee will do so. We, the Communist faction, strongly deny it. Only then will the committee work fruitfully when we adopt the Law on Basic Principles of Internal and External Politics. There is no other way to Ukraine. So, I'm sorry, we need to rule out this detail.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u103	Exchanged thoughts. I'm voting on the proposal in the right column -- giving consent to be bound by international treaties with the clarification that Knyazevitch made: denunciations and parentheses. [[Stopping or Stopping]] Who for such an editorial please make up your mind. [[11:33:55]] For three hundred Supported. Please. For reasons of vote? Please, although this is not entirely a motive. Simonna microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u104	Dear colleagues. I especially appeal to all who today, only after the elections, did we come to the Supreme Council, thinking that the commitments we made to the electorate should be fulfilled. And when there's a clear direction here, let's say, about what they said during the elections, and here's the development in NATO, cooperation with NATO, change in some of the foreign policy vectors that the parties were talking about on the other side of the election. Once again on behalf of the Communist faction, I call you all to the responsibility of the electorate, what you have promised them. Because it hasn't been two months, you've forgotten what you're talking about. And so I would like to invite you once again, once you finally vote, don't vote, just support the first one. It will then enable the Supreme Council to determine the main directions of foreign policy, not what will dictate for political reasons to a certain committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u105	The next amendment is on control of diplomatic service activities. Rejected, recorded: diplomatic service. Yes, we leave the “diplomatic service”. Don't you insist? It's a Belarus. Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, this amendment of the principle. She's one word or two, but you don't have to take to the committee what the committee can't. The committee is only responsible for parliamentary control over the activities of the Diplomatic Service. So I insist that it narrows down here, limits the control function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u107	Chernobyl. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, as I am, we have not yet considered the amendment of Andrew School. I think it's perfectly adequate. Controlling the activities of the Ukrainian Diplomatic Service is here, including consultations on candidatures and the like. We're running them now, but it's not a subject of knowledge. And this is really our responsibility, the Committee on Foreign Affairs. So I'm proposing this formulation that's written in the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Diplomatic service is broader than control or any other word. But you have to be sure. I'm voting on Amendment 129 of the Diplomatic Service. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:37:04]] For 202 The “Diplomatic Service” remains. Please, the school's amendments, all of them are rejected by the “International Connections of the Supreme Council”. School microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u110	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, at last! Because before that, everyone, especially Mr. Simonenko, had a lot of amendments here, so I think he had a right to speak and, as amended, even in my opinion, I would have allowed it, but already, as it were, I would have said. What is “who makes the international ties between Ukraine and the Supreme Council ”? Is this the Supreme Council's apparatus? Vice Speaker? Or should the Supreme Council Committee be doing this in foreign affairs. This is the logical work of the Committee on Questions. Foreign issues of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, international ties must be controlled and implemented by the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, all of which are plentiful concepts. It does not have to be written about the fact that the committee can deal with some or other issues, and this will still fall within the competence of the international relations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to emphasize that. And I think it's worth supporting, because it's organically involved in the position of paragraph two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u111	Thank you, Andrew, you are absolutely right, but here is a more precise norm, which is recorded in the right column: “The subject of this committee is the issue of cooperation between the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the parliamentary bodies of international organizations.” We're not international, we're Parliament. International relations are carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and Parliament is engaged in interparliamentary relations. And I think it's more accurate here, but if you insist, I'm voting on the school's amendment. Who's in charge of supporting the school's amendment, please identify yourself. [[11:39:08]] For 176 The following amendments are included in the options. So, dear colleagues, we went through the second option with those amendments concerning the Committee on Foreign Affairs. We are now approaching two options for a committee on issues of European integration. Again, here were the amendments made by Chevchuk, Tarasyuk, and Zarubinsky, to them in a minute, if it comes from the faction, too. Please, Boris Ivanovich Tarasyuk. Then Shevchuk, then Zarubinsky. We're talking about first and second choices.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u112	Dear colleagues, I suggest you simplify the procedure for discussion and voting. I'm going to vote first separately, second option separately, and that's it. And don't vote on individual sub-items, because we're going to take it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u113	I fully support you. And I'm going to the amendment authors, if there's no objection, just like that, but in the right column. Yes, Boris Ivanovich? Okay, thanks. Sergei Shevchuk, please. Zarabinski to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u114	I support this logic that we don't have to debate too long. All those who wanted to make their own proposals were able to do so, including Mr. Simonenko, to prepare for the second reading of the draft decree. So as the author of my comments, I'm taking them down because I think that the compromise option has been found and we need to vote in general for the second version of the powers of the two related committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u115	Zarubinski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u116	Oleg Zarubinsky, “Block of Lithuania”. You know, this is the situation that happens with scientists when they write dissertation, sometimes you have to stop. Obviously, you can continue to polish one or the other, but I would like to emphasize once again that, considering or taking a tour into a sufficiently tense relationship between the two Committees on Euro-Integration and Foreign Affairs related to the struggle for authorization, we need to listen to those people who are obviously going to enter and perhaps lead these committees. If they understood, if they agreed, I think we should stop talking. What is more, if people agree to withdraw their amendments and vote, as you say, Adam Ivanovich, for the right column or second option. And go back to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! Calm down. There are those who would like to speak. Write down the factions of the first and second variants. If there isn't, there won't be. But the “Protectors of the Motherland ” insist. Yes, please, Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u118	Once again, I'm here to express my personal opinion. But I propose to create the Supreme Council, taking into account the importance of the Asian, African orientations, the African Integration Committee, the Antarctic Integration Committee of Ukraine, the Pacific Integration Committee. I'm sorry, there's a legislative field to ensure Ukraine's international activity and split it we don't have a right. European integration, I want to remind you, once was part of, even, the Ministry of Economics, and not the external affairs is a little bit different. We have different approaches to different contracts. How will we, for example, conduct ourselves by introducing a clear list of treaties that apply to, say, Pacific cooperation? There are relevant international organizations, we've thrown them out at all. We're creating new organizations, we're not predicting them. How do I not know how to deal with this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u119	It's hard to imagine. Simonenko, please follow him, Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u120	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I'm only offering to support the first option. And coming out of the general position, the approaches that are the subject of knowledge for this committee. And I also support my predecessor in the part that today, not in Europe, the main development in society is in terms of economic achievement. On the other hand, in other directions, and in others, let's say countries have to look for an answer for Ukraine, where we can solve the issues of economic stability, our external markets, the possibility of cooperation from the point of view of developing specific directions of activity. So we have to answer to ourselves today that this decision is going to exacerbate our internal situation in Parliament and it doesn't respond to the fact that Parliament is working on a common, principled, law of fundamental internal and external policy. I go back to this: only this law will give an answer in relation to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u121	Yuri Carmazin, behind him is School.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u122	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear friends, it is obvious that the second option is more detailed, more civilized and should be voted for. What about what we're affirming? We're approving the Supreme Council's decree, we're looking at a draft of everything, a list and knowledge of the subject of committee knowledge. Do we decide whether we are going to join an organization now or not? And that's where it's supposed to be, and that's the first thing. And that's what sharpening is, that's what it is. And, dear Adam Ivanovich, we have considered, we are already used to looking at the subject of committee subjects and we call one of them “public building issues”. We have a built-up state called Ukraine, and now we need to build a state system of this country. So, dear friends, let's stop. I realize that it's ideologically close to some people, but let's just throw away all the "counsel" and say "state" and put it on, and let's get used to it, as in other civilized countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u123	Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u124	Thank you. I would first like to point out that if not all the amendments were discussed here, I would like to insist on them. They're editorial, and I understand that if there's an appropriate reporter's agreement to take this into account editorially, please. This means, here we have the cooperation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the parliamentary bodies of international organizations. First, there must be that in international organisations, but it must also be stressed that the Ukrainian Parliament has the right to cooperate not only with those international organizations that have a parliamentary part, but also without them. And so here in the “activity” and in the “activities of international organisations” add two words that relieve the tension in the situation and explain and interpret the subjects of the committee's activities. And I would like to stress that the European Committee of European Integration in Ukraine exists and discuss that there is still a need to create a committee with cooperation with the Pacific region, but let it be at the initiative of the next majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u125	Thank you. Andrew, please look at 123 amendments there are external relations, including the participation of Ukraine in international organizations and further: “such as” and it is deciphered. So it's all taken into account. Yes. All of it. The discussion is over. The discussion is over. There was a suggestion, I propose to support these proposals, that we will now vote on the right column, the right column, that is, what the MP's preparatory group is proposing, but two options: first and second, without any additions or changes. All right, we got a deal?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u126	Yes. Then I'll put it to a vote. Who's in favour of supporting the first version of the Committee's knowledge of European integration, please vote. [[11:48:02]] For-30 Not supported. Who's in favour of supporting the second option of the right column, please vote, determine. [[11:48:25]] For 386 Copy that. So, finally, your honorary colleagues, for historical guidance, we in the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament have identified the subjects of the knowledge of two committees in foreign affairs and European integration, because that was the most difficult problem in previous calls. Yes. Now let's look at it. Yes, this committee we are. They went to the Rules Committee. Amendment to Sasha 134 counted. Drafting of parliamentary procedures is also taken into account, 135. I mean, the Rules Committee is all accounted for. Yes, Baby, I don't see your offer. A Note to Whom, to the Chief? See you later. Well, please, Easy Mike.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u127	Adam Ivanovich, the point is, in the Supreme Council of the previous calling, I headed a subcommittee that was doing the work of the Supreme Council apparatus. And in a year of work, I've come to the conclusion that the Supreme Council's apparatus is not controlled by the Supreme Council, nor by the people's deputies, that in fact the apparatus stands over the people's deputies and the Supreme Council. That is why I would like to add to this the subject of the Committee on Rules of Procedure for posts and discharges related to the subject of knowledge. Because the apparatus grows uncontrollablely, the cost of maintaining it increases annually, and it is assigned to relatives, friends, acquaintances. And that goes beyond the regulatory committee. I propose to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u128	Thank you, Oleg. But there are two problems. First of all, there's no such proposal. You had the right to speak only on the proposals that are here. You didn't have an offer. And second of all, it's all written down here. That the committee develops the cost, it sets it up, and so forth. That's what you're going to do with the corrosive, and you're going to regulate it. Yes, the committee has no such amendment. I'm not putting it to the vote. Budget Committee. Arzheviteen, the amendment, do you insist? Please, Arjevitina's microphone, one hundred and forty-seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u129	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. My amendment was to remove taxes, tariffs and duties from the banking committee. Today, the Banking Committee is one of those committees that is most overburdened by the bill, and up to seventy percent of these bills relate to taxes, tariffs and duties. Among other things, the classic issues of the banking market are the stock market, the market market, the guarantees of population investments and others are not actually being considered. And considering that the working group has rejected my proposal to attach these issues to either the budget committee or to the committee of economic policy, my proposal today is to decide whether to create either a commission or to give an appropriate commission to consider whether to set up a separate committee on taxes, tariffs and customs matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u130	Mikolo Janovich, better than you'll ever say.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u131	Well, to be honest, I've been thinking about this for a long time and I've come to the conclusion that the amount of work in the budget committee is so large that adding this function to tax and customs policy will be inappropriate. Perhaps we should give a protocol mandate to consider the need to establish a specialized committee on taxation and customs policy. That would be right, here. But this is not the subject of today's consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u132	Why don't you insist, Stanislaw? No, we cannot accept an assignment. Or we've already made a decision with you, and now we're voting on the list and the names of the committees.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u133	Don't insist, all right? Yes, Zarubinsky. Well, of course we've fixed something. Oleg doesn't insist. Arjevitin 160. That's it. Same thing. I see. Yes. Saints, Homutinnik, health insurance is not an insistence. It'll be in medicine. Yeah, same thing. The next amendment, right, next is what, alcohol and tobacco? Please, the Homutinika microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u134	Dear Mikola Janovich, a subject of knowledge of the Committee on Finance and Banking, has always been the national regulation of the market in alcohol, tobacco, and alcohol. This is about budget revenue, and at least next year it's about 6 billion dollars. Actually, that question is deleted from any committee. I think it would be logical to return to the Committee on Finance and Banking. But if there's another solution, to another committee, let's make a decision to let some committee deal with it, because it's the revenue of the budget and it's the big figures. So I propose to put it to a vote and return it to the Committee on Finance to regulate this particular area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u135	Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u136	Valery Grigoryevich, well, we haven't ruled out this function because it's revealed at all points of the committee's conduct, and there's taxation, so the excise on alcohol and tobacco. What's that? It's a tax. In matters relating to customs legislation. So no one takes that function from the committee. I've seen where she's been transferred to at least.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, I support Mikola Janovich. Really. Now, now Teryohin. Indeed, all that is involved in this area is the subject of this committee’s knowledge. If we're going to be writing alcohol and tobacco right now, we're going to have to write oil, gasoline, coal, and all the tax code that the committee should be looking at. Clearly, everything that relates to taxes, to excise congregations, does not matter what kind of product it is. There's probably no need to be specific here. Teriochina microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u138	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. We need to be precise. In this regard, unlike other commodities, alcohol and tobacco have a specialized law on government regulation of the market in alcohol and tobacco. And not only are we talking about excise duties, but we're talking about, let's say, movement control, warehouse status, special liability, which is not subject to tax law. So that's exactly what the Homutinique said about this one. Someone has to regulate this market. That is, this Law on State Regulation should fall within the scope of some committee’s activities, better financially, because it has historically been there and has been developed for them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u139	Thank you. And even better, European integration, because most of it comes from there. But I'm putting this proposal to a vote. Who, in order to support the Hometics proposal and to clarify alcohol and tobacco, should refer to the subjects of the Committee of Finance and Banking, please identify yourself. [[11:56:43]] For 323 New configuration. Supported. We've already talked about jobs. Zarubinski, yes. Arjewitin, 172, does not insist. Kravchenko, 180 Please microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u140	Cowchenko, Communist faction. Nikolai Janović, I made an amendment to the scrap metal. It is true that since 1997, all legislation has been developed in the Committee on Industrial Policy and Enterprise. He has now been taken to the publications of the Committee on Economic Policy. It's a secondary commodity. I would like to leave it to the subject matter of the Committee's publication of industrial policy and entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u141	Mikolo Yanovich, your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u142	Nikolai Vasilevich, dear, we have discussed this issue. And that's the way it is, it's so unscrupulous, let's just say it's a decision and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u143	I'm betting on the 180th amendment of Kravchenk. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:58:25]] For-189 Not supported. Roast, counted. Dry, 181. There's an editorial. Dry, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u144	Dear colleagues, during the last four calls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the protection of social, property, material rights of consumers, have referred to the jurisdiction of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. By accident, perhaps in haste, the fifth call was added to consumer co-operation and consumer protection and referred to the jurisdiction of the Economic Committee. The preparatory group took the first step to correct this situation, taking into account the amendment of colleague Roman Zvaric and by dividing consumer rights and consumer cooperation, for these are slightly different things. In view of this, first, in the structure of the most important spheres of social activity, consumer rights are addressed in the social sphere rather than in the economic sphere. This is also true of European experience in the distribution of powers. And the second. More recently, in November, the National Coordinating Council on Consumer Rights adopted the same decision, proposing the restoration of the activity and status of the State Consumer. And the last. We are approached by the Consumer Association.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u145	Yes, thank you. Let's be clear. I'm voting on Dried One's proposal. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:00:09]] For-198 Not supported. Yes, Kravchenka's offer. Well, we've already voted on the committee. She's already voted. Mikola Vasilovich, again? Please, Kravchenka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u146	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Well, we voted on the amendment, but I have an editorial detail on the subjects of the Committee of Industrial Policy. Nikolai Janović, the point is that in the first reading we're in space activity, she was in the subjects of the knowledge of the Committee of Industrial Policy, and now, ultimately, she's in the right column. There are no other committees. That's why I think it's editorially necessary to clarify.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u147	I need to be more specific, I agree.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u148	Let's agree that we're carrying. I guess it's technical. Space activity, it's in the left column, we're carrying it right. I see. 201 amendment. I was a woman. Now, now. I can't see Stratovich. Beazenka's microphone, please. 201 amendments are being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u149	Ladies and gentlemen, we must not destroy the clear distribution of the functions of the Supreme Council. Ukraine has a single land legislation that regulates the entire range of land relations and does not depend on the nature and purpose of land use. In addition, land law regulation is the only complex category of law and cannot be managed by different sectoral structures. Thus, referring specific issues of land regulation to the subjects of a number of Supreme Council committees will make it impossible to form a single codified legislative field for land relations regulation, for the implementation of a single national land policy. That's why we're proposing. We suggest that land-relationship issues in built-in areas be excluded from the activities of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u150	Yes, dear fellows! Now, now. Sorry, I've been breaking the Rules for two minutes. I'd like to ask your permission, let's continue this session until the end of this matter. I think we'll be done in 10 or 15 minutes and then we'll call it a break. Is there any objection? You don't? Thank you. Then please log in from the factions surrounding this amendment. The unadapted "Council" system has been recording for a very long time. The stork, please, the Party of Regions. Cowchenko behind him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u151	To whom does the word pass?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u152	Pass Beazenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u153	I was a woman. Bevanko again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u154	Hello! Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I am addressing you, we will destroy land legislation if we all work under ourselves. Land under industrial enterprises, land under water, land under forests. fertilization. Let's dissipate this land right on all committees and everyone will do their own land rights. We have the only Earth code that is working and that deals with all the issues of land legislation. With the Construction Committee, we work very well in our working group on land legislation, we communicate with them, and we resolve absolutely all the issues that we face. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u155	Mikola Kravchenko, Communist factionist. Colonel Mikhailo, get ready. He's handing over the scarecrow. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u156	I believe that there is a proposal to support the offer of Bebazenka's colleague, because it is in these relations that all the disputes arise in practical activities. There are many violations, including those of a criminal nature. Therefore, one committee should be concerned with the land issue. This is my opinion: to support Bebezenka's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u157	Polenčich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u158	Dear friends, I believe that today the issue of land relations has become such, we will speak, and political color. I would like to support my colleague Bevanka so that the land issues are still part of a committee's office: agricultural policy and land relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u159	Corge, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u160	I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u161	Please, Serbin. It's a Microphone, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u162	Dear colleagues, I'm asking you to agree with the task force, and to reject Be Bevanka's offer. And that's why. Let me give you an example: Kiev. First, the ground is set aside and then determined as a bribe to build it. Here we have what we have. It is the same if a builder and architect came to see Mr. Beavzenk and advised him where to plant the corn and where to sow the peas. So I'm asking you to reject this amendment. On the fifth occasion, we began to give order in this matter. Let's put order in order not for the landowner to define it, but for the public, the architect and the city authorities to stop this mess that's being created in many cities, including Kiev. Please reject this amendment and support the working group.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u163	Yes, thank you. Well, I can't help but say the word Polachenko, who is well aware of these questions. Please. Recorded, recorded. But the factions were already speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u164	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I am confident that even if I am supported by an agrarian committee, the most important thing today is in the cities and in the construction of conflict situations, because until now this decision has been decided as proposed by Deputy Bebelzenko. What I want to say is that experience tells us what it takes to build and build the land to be subordinated to this committee. I want to be supported, even by those today. In respect of the agrarian committee. And please, even my colleague Sulkowski, support that as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u165	He will vote with both hands, but against. Please, Azarov Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u166	I would ask the People's Deputy Be Bevanko and other people's deputies who have spoken here with arguments to listen to the main arguments. How, then, will the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing and Housing determine policy if land-use issues relating to construction, construction and industrial construction are covered by other committees. I will say that, from my experience, work in the Government is probably the least legal way to build and use land within cities. They seem extremely confusing to me. Here, for this committee, it is very serious to make this process much easier and, at the same time, to bring it into the legislative framework.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. I think we should listen to what the colleagues here said. And they talked about how amazing things are being done with the earth. And the more committees control this process, the more democracy and transparency. If it's in one hand, every time one decides, he decides one at a time. I think we need to support the preparatory group here, but that's your business. I'm voting on my colleague Bebezenka's proposal. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:09:52]] For the 220. Not supported. The factions. 159 – “Regions”, “Block of Timoshenko” – 3, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 13, Communists – 25, “Block of Lithuania” – 20. Yeah, next amendment, same thing, 210s, Beazenka. The 236th, the Hometic Saint, they've already taken out this amendment because it's the knowledge of the two committees. Yeah, and we have the 243th amendment, we didn't agree to the prep. More loyally, we have agreed that this is a very principled issue that needs to be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council. Please, Ivan Popescu, 243rd Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u168	Thank you. Masterful colleagues! The issue of public policy in the area of development and use of languages in Ukraine is part of national ethno-politics. And the issue of ethnopolitics is referred to the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. The legal status of languages, the legislative provision of language functions and the implementation of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages are also subject to the competence of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. The same problems in the system of executive authorities are addressed by the State Committee on Nationalities and Immigration, which directly cooperates with the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities in this field. Therefore, in terms of efficiency, the issue of public policy in the development and use of languages is appropriate to refer to the subject of knowledge of the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, and the question of art as a language product is left to the Committee on Spirituality and Culture. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u169	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I see those who wish. I see. So please register with factions. Please, Taran. Block Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the Popescu MP said it right, but everything went backwards. The point is that parliamentary committees are built on a sectoral principle, i.e. each committee corresponds to a specific ministry. For example, the Education Committee is in charge of the Ministry of Education, the Committee on Security and Defence is in charge of the Ministry of Defence and so on. The Committee on Spirituality and Culture traditionally coordinates its work with the Ministry of Culture, which deals with language issues. Now, the Human Rights and International Relations Committee, I would like to draw the attention of Deputy Popescu, who is working with the Stateman, and they are working together not on language issues, but on migration, immigration, refugees and so on. So trying to get the language out of the Committee on Culture artificially means breaking up the traditional link between the department committee. It's an unprofessional approach, essentially an absurd approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u171	Please, John the Rabbit.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u172	John Haretz, Ukrainian People's Party, faction “Our Ukraine — National Self-Defense”. I propose not to support John Popescu’s offer for such a reason. The thing is, language is the base of any culture. Language is the main indicator of national identity. And when we talk about culture and spirituality here, we just want to talk about language from the widest places. And on the one hand, it's a commutative tool, on the other hand it's a medium of information, on the other hand it's the basis of national identity. What John Popescu says, he suggests narrowing the meaning of language to a very local dimension. I don't think this gap is going to help solve these problems in Ukraine. We have an urgent need to establish the state language as the only one, so Popescu I propose to reject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u173	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'll put it to a vote. I am voting on Popescu's proposal to refer to the subject of knowledge of the Human Rights Committee and national minorities of the problem of public policy in the development and use of languages in Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:14:43]] For 195. But suddenly the right part of the hall turned red. Not supported. Yes, please, Bondarenko insists. 255. Please turn on the microphone. Party of regions only. Microphone on, check the card, please. Bondarenko Olena, Party of Regions. Now. Don't worry. Microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u174	I would like to support my amendment, since the vast number of bills that we have considered in the past were related to the development of the media industry. And so far, my opinion, the name of the committee does not correspond to what we do in the committee. I very much ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u175	You can support it, but believe me, Olena, there's no other committee but your questions. You're out of the competition here, you don't have a competition compared to other committees, so you can vote here, you don't have any competitors. Do you agree? It's okay. We've already voted on the dry one. And Zybenko's repairs are part of it. So, dear colleagues, you and I have gone through in detail one of the most important issues that we have, in the work of the Supreme Council, takes a very long time. And I very much hope that now, if we vote on this regulation as a whole, with the amendments that we have voted on, we will have fewer contradictions, especially on the Conciliation Council, when each committee has tried to prove that it is its sphere of knowledge. It seems to me that the MP's Preparatory Group -- I would like to thank the coordinator of the Mikoli Janovich subgroup and those who worked in this subgroup -- have come in quite detail. Especially thanks to that micro-subgroup that we created yesterday to reconcile the most important issues. I ask you to support, as a whole, the decision number 1004 on the list, the number of compositions and the subject matter of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please vote in a consolidated manner. [[12:17:35]] For 406 Order accepted, thank you. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry I'm two minutes late, there'll be a break now, but listen to the announcement before. I'm addressing the members of the Counting Group that we've chosen, and we've chosen the commission, and if I'm not mistaken about 20 national MPs, we're going to meet on the third floor of the sitting room here in this room, you're going to have an organizational session. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u176	Dear colleagues, if you'll excuse me, we'll continue our sessions of the Supreme Council. According to my information, the extra time we gave to the Counting Commission was used productively. So I would like to ask the head of the Counting Commission, who was elected, to inform the Supreme Council of the decision taken by the Human Resources Committee. Please, Shershon Mikola Haritonovich. [[Applause]] You're applauding correctly, but for now, you're securing the appearance of Mikli Haritonovich. They're probably still signing the papers. He is the head of the Medical Commission, Mikola Haritonovich Shershun. Please, Mikola Haritonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u177	The Honourable Presidency, honourable colleagues, according to the third part of article 16 of the Supreme Council Rules at the first session of the newly elected council to form the personal composition of its committees, is elected by the Counting Commission. In line with the Supreme Council’s decree of 23. 11.07 02-6 The Counting Commission was elected with twenty national deputies, taking into account the principle of proportional representation of MPs: from the Party of the Regions – 9 National Deputies, from the BUT – 7 National Deputies, Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense – 3 National Deputies, the Communist Party of Ukraine – 1 National Deputies, the Block of Lithuania – 1 People's Deputies. It's consistent with part three. 17 of the Rules The Counting Commission chooses from its composition the head, the deputy head, and the secretary. The first organizational meeting of the Counting Commission took place on December 4, 2007. A meeting was held by the chairman of the Preparatory Group of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine, Bogatirirov Raisa Vasilovna. The meeting was attended by all 20 national deputies. The head of the Counting Commission was elected the national deputy of Ukraine, Shershun Mikola Haritonović. Vyezivsky Vladimir Mikhailovich was elected deputy head of the Counting Commission and the secretary of the board, Shago Eugène Petrovich. Eleven national deputies — most of them from the Counting Commission — voted in favour of the persons listed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u178	Thank you. Is there a question to Nikola Grigorovitch? I think so. Then we accept the information that the head of the Counting Commission has been formed. Let us move on to the next issue of the day’s agenda for the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, of some of the rules of the Rules, namely, article 69 of the Rules sets out how the nominations are made. Candidates can be removed from the faction, they can be self-exposure, they can be promoted by a colleague, and so on and so forth, and so forth, and so on and so forth, and so on and so forth, so on and so forth. Yes, please. Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine set out a number of issues that should be addressed in the final resolution of this issue, including your attention to article 70, part 8, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, and to article 74, part 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. What are you talking about? The point is that we must, first of all, take a procedural decision, I stress that this is a procedural decision, because the Supreme Council of Ukraine rules do not require this to be the case, the decision was taken by a decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we need to determine in what order we will decide on the nomination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the candidates for the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, I am proposing a formal procedural order for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to vote on the only list of candidates for the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the candidate for the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the candidate for the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In the event that the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a positive decision on this procedural issue, there is a single list of three candidates and then there is a secret ballot by submitting ballots on a single list of three candidates. This will require only one vote at a time. I'd like to make such a formal procedural proposal for a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u180	Dear colleagues, I see those who wish to sign up. Please sign up. Yes, please. No objections, one of the factions? Please, Nestor Ivanovich Schufrich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u181	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, a very interesting proposal that can testify to only one thing today — in a coalition voted with such pompousness, there is simply no vote to elect Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk as Head of the Supreme Council. I mean, you have to tell the truth. There are no votes, and we're looking for a side. But the rules are a very strict norm. And we have to first select the Head of the Supreme Council, who, according to the procedure, will run for office as First Deputy of the Supreme Council, as well as deputy. So first you have to select the Head, and then you have to select two of his deputies, who are going to be offered to the elected Head of the Supreme Council. But our faction is calling for a recess. I'll tell you what we just gave you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u182	Please, Stretovic, “Our Ukraine”. School to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u183	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian-Democratic Union, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Adam Ivanovich, as you know, allows the formula when the only list can be chosen by the Head, the First Deputy, and the Deputy. The word “may ” says that the Supreme Council can make a procedural decision on its own. So in this situation, because this position from the National Deputy has come to you as Head, I think it's appropriate to put him to the vote after the discussion. At the same time, there is no direct imperative that the Chief of the Supreme Council be elected only one on the list. He can choose with the First Deputy and Deputy. In that position, I think the Supreme Council today has good reason, because unformed leadership and the Rules allow us to vote on this issue. Regarding Nestor Ivanovich's position. In fact, a break takes satisfaction, but it takes two factions to file such an application. If there are no such formal reasons, we cannot give them a break during the procedure and the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u184	Andrew Schlell, Timoshenko's Yulia Block, followed by Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask you to pass the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u186	Please, Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u187	Thank you. My fellow Members, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Rules of the Supreme Council actually provide for two forms of voting for the leadership of our Parliament: either separately for the Head of the First Deputy and Deputy, or together with a list, as proposed by the Supreme Council and how it will be adopted. So we really need to make a procedural decision, I emphasize, it's not an ad hoc decision, it's a procedural decision, by which we're going to choose the Head of the Supreme Council and make a proposal to Mr. Zvaric, and I fully support him and ask him to take a break when there are two factions that have the right to turn, but we have made a decision without interrupting this procedural question. As for the comments, why did we make such a proposal? We openly discussed the procedure for choosing the leadership of the Supreme Council in the presence of the media. And it's a principle for us to live up to our pre-election promise. So the representative of the opposition must be represented in the leadership of the Supreme Council, and more than that, I must say, we have decided to appoint the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, namely the representative of the opposition. This is our position, and that's why we're proposing, colleagues, to choose a list so that the guarantees of opposition can be given a clear opportunity to be represented in the leadership of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u188	Catherine Samuel, a faction of Communists, prepare the Ripper.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u189	Thank you very much. Of course, first of all, what you would say to the media is that you would not let people down, but you would have consulted first. That's the first one. It's different. This is not a procedure, Roman Mikhailovich, and I ask you not to distort the Ukrainian Rules. This is the rule of law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And so you don't have to take hints that it's going to cost 150 votes. Next. The head of the Supreme Council will be legitimate absolutely if elected by secret ballot. Look, double-check, on the one hand, this is the control on the part of the Counting Commission, which is formed by representatives of all but political parties, factions, and, on the other hand, we all have our party, political control, we have it, we don't only need to make all of us look like it doesn't. And I think it's going to be absolutely right. And third. This will eventually be a test of the strength of a coalition about which there is so much and so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u190	Mikola Ivanovich Derkac, Block Lithuania, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u191	I give the word to Zarubinski Oleg Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u192	Oleg Zharubinsky is given the word. Zarubinsky's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u193	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it is written in the Constitution: elections, I emphasize, elections by the Head of the Supreme Council and his deputies. If there's a package, agree, it's not an election, it's an approval or not a confirmation of a package already formed as a result of shadow agreements. It's not elections, it's honorable Democrats, it's non-democracy, or it's elections without a choice. That's the first one. And the second. If the position of deputy representative of the opposition is proposed, choose, Your Honor, the Head of the Supreme Council, he will hold consultations and appoint or propose a representative of the opposition political power. Who's in the way? And it's a very important moment. There are a lot of talk and talk in Parliament today about political corruption. Let us not question the corruption of even such a situation as the election of the Chief of Staff of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u194	They mentioned Nestor Schuffrich. He can't help but answer. Please, then, Roman Mikhailovich. Shufrich's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u195	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, was certainly right to point out that there was a colleague of mine who pointed out that the break was announced on the basis of the statements made by the two factions. So I want to reassure both my colleague and his party, which is a statement from two factions, from the faction of the Party of Regions and the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Call. And I would like to draw attention to this: the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the rule of the Rules, and in order to make changes to the Rules, we need to go through the procedure: to make changes, to submit changes to the registration sector, then a temporary presidency, the working group needs to consider these changes, to make their decisions, and only after that can we consider it. In view of the fact that there is no Supreme Council leadership today, changes to the Rules cannot be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u196	Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I agree with most of Nestor Ivanovich's words. In particular, I agree with his perfectly correct statement that this is a procedural issue. And that's why I'm going to allow myself to quote, part of article 70 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, which regulates this very issue that we're talking about right now. I literally quote: “The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may be elected on the list at the same time as the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” I would now also ask that the national MPs also draw attention to such a legal fact that, in cases where a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is required to resolve one or the other, the Rules of Procedure say that, according to the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this case, it was not necessary to make such a formulation into this norm because the legislator, when adopting the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, had omitted those words. Since I cannot conclude to myself that the Supreme Council of Ukraine could in some case be wrong, of course I conclude that, as the stated standard in part eight of article 70 shows that the legislator was just referring to procedural issues, so I am asking the question in the context of the procedural question that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should be defined as a single list of the Head's candidature, the First Deputy and Deputy. This does not mean, instead, that on individual lists that might be alternative, perhaps. may not appear the same name in separate positions, but proposals should be formulated if this procedural proposal is accepted, then it should be accepted. formulate proposals for a list of three candidates for these three posts. So I would ask Adam Ivanovich to put this procedural question to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-04-m0.u198	Yes, dear fellows, calm down. Calm down, everything will go according to the Rules. According to the statement of two factions, the factions of the Communist Party and the Communist factions, a break is announced until 16:00. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
