ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, TV sets, and radio audiences. Today's the 15th? March 15th already, Thursday. I ask the deputies to prepare for registration, we will continue to work in plenary mode. A roll call is being made. [[10:06:35]] They showed a desire to work for 255 national deputies. The morning session is open. As I continue my tradition, I would like, on behalf of all in attendance, to congratulate Mordecai Leonid Mikhailovich on his birthday. Please welcome him. [[Applause]] And Scoobenko Vladimir Petrovich is also welcomed, we wish for good, for success and for all good. [[Applause]] Today, the Rules provide for a direct consideration of issues that are put into the agenda. So let's get to them. And the first question is the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy Bondik. Reported the head of the Committee of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich. Mikhail Vasilovich, is he in a meeting? The question of clean procedure. Please. May I have your attention, please? National deputy Bondik assigned to the government, executive power. In accordance with the Constitution, he must exercise his powers as a deputy. He wrote the application at the proper time. This statement is considered in the committee. The committee is proposing to suspend the term of office of National Deputy Bondik in connection with his personal application for parliamentary authority. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. The registration number 3315 on the composition of Bondik Valérie Anatolyovich’s parliamentary credentials is hereby voted. [[10:09:02]] For 243 Decision taken. The second question. About the appointment of a foreign minister. The representative of the President of Ukraine, Zvaric Roman Mikhajlovich, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u2	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. I would like to begin by quoting part three, more faithfully, part three of the first article of article 100 of the Constitution. I would very much like the Ukrainian national deputies to reflect on the scope of this constitutional norm. The President of Ukraine is directing the foreign political activities of the State. This item gives rise to the position contained in paragraph 10 of the same part of the same article, according to which the right of the President of Ukraine is exclusive, it is his exclusive constitutional competence to submit to the Supreme Council a nomination for a foreign minister of Ukraine's foreign policy, Ukraine's foreign affairs. According to article 106, part one, paragraph 10, the President of Ukraine has exercised his right and has again submitted to you the candidacy of Vladimir Ogryzka for appointment as Minister of Foreign Affairs. In view of the above, I ask you to support this candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u3	Roman Mikhailovich, thank you for your information. Have a seat, please. The candidate has the opportunity to speak, please. The word is Ogrizko Volodymyr Stanislavovich, candidate for the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Thank you for your word. Alexander Alexanderovich, how many minutes do I have?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u5	How much do you want?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u6	Five-seven.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u7	Five-seven? Seven minutes, please. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please, calm down! One minute, Vladimir Stanislavovich. May I have your attention, please, as if you hadn't seen each other in a while. Then it doesn't mean they'll be in the session room the whole time, please! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u8	Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u9	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u10	May I continue? Okay. Dear National Deputies! I would like first of all to thank you for the opportunity to address you again, and I would like to begin my speech with two small quotations. The first is article 18 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that Ukraine's external political activities are aimed at ensuring its national interests and security by maintaining peaceful and mutually beneficial cooperation with members of international society in accordance with the principles and norms of international law. This provision of our Constitution has found its further development in the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine, which is governed by foreign political authority in its daily direct activity. I also want to briefly remind you of the basics of article 8 of this law, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the law states that the main tasks of state policy, I repeat, in the foreign policy sphere are to create favourable external political conditions for Ukraine's progressive economic and social development. Preventing interference in Ukraine’s internal affairs and preventing violations of its sovereignty and territorial integrity by other nations. Ensure full participation of Ukraine in European and regional collective security systems. The acquisition of membership in the European Union and the organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty while preserving good neighbourly relations and strategic, I repeat, partnerships with the Russian Federation, other members of the Commonwealth of Independent States and other states of the world. Promoting conflict resolution, first and foremost, in areas bordering Ukraine. Participation in international peacemaking under the auspices of the UN, the OSCE, other international security organizations. Adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation, as well as the fight against international terrorism. Dear National Deputies! This is the program of activity of Ukraine’s foreign political authorities today, tomorrow and as long as the standards of this law are in force. We in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs each year make appropriate plans of action based on these very constitutional and legislative foundations of our foreign policy. For this year, we have set a number of priorities. I'd like to brief you very briefly on these directions. This is primarily about the consular and legal protection of Ukrainian citizens' interests abroad. Every Ukrainian who is abroad must be sure that the State is in the interest of protecting his interests. We will continue to work on visa issues that concern our citizens. You know, work is now under way here, and by the middle of this year, we hope that a visa facilitation agreement and readmission agreement will be signed with the countries of the European Union. Similarly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should pay special attention to the preparation of agreements on the so - called small border movement with Poland, Romania, Slovakia, and Hungary. This will allow visa-free travel for hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens who live in border areas. Our second priority is the integration of Ukraine into the world economic space. Although this is not a direct task of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in the meantime Ukrainian diplomats see the prospect of involving an external political factor to address such issues as the creation of a competitive economy as the promotion of socio-economic reforms in our country, as the support of national producers to establish contacts with their foreign partners, the approval of the positive image of Ukraine's investment attractiveness in the world. We're going to work on creating, reducing Ukraine's energy dependence, and we're going to look for effective ways of diversifying energy supply, involving foreign experience, a technology base in the field of energy conservation. The most important task for the near future is the diplomatic co-existence of the conclusion of the negotiations on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. This will soon allow negotiations to begin on the establishment of a free trade zone with the European Union. On the other hand, I would like to thank you, distinguished national deputies, for supporting the recently approved package of laws that allow us to move to the final stage of our promotion to the WTO. European integration is the fundamental priority of our internal and external policies. The MIP will continue to work to create the necessary conditions for Ukraine to become a member of this important international structure for us. These are European standards: economic, social and democratic. We started, as you know, this month negotiations on a new basic agreement with the European Union. The beginning is optimistic, although there is much practical work ahead. It will be held over the course of a year, and we want to believe that, in total, we will have a deal that will allow us to actually start work on political association and economic integration with the European Union. On March 23, the College of the Ministry will consider the matter at its meeting. Euro-Atlantic integration in this area, as I said before, we will work actively towards legislative priorities on Ukraine's continuing course in Euro-Atlantic integration has been repeatedly claimed by the President of Ukraine. Our goal is to guarantee Ukraine's national security under the highest international standards and the lowest budgetary costs, to bring the material and technical security of the Armed Forces, social standards for military personnel to standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u11	Finished or something? Everything? Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u12	I'm going to cancel out. The next priority is regional policy. Of course, we must play a very active role in our contacts with the countries around us and create a zone of security, cooperation and prosperity around Ukraine. We will certainly pay great attention to the work of foreign Ukraine and the promotion of Ukrainian culture abroad because, honourable national deputies, there are over 20 million people living abroad. our Ukrainian fellow citizens and, of course, each state must use such a powerful potential to realize its influence. We hope that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will still be able to play an active role in working with foreign Ukraine and promoting Ukraine's positive image abroad. Thank you very much for your attention and ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u13	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions? Please sign in. Yeah, let's take 15 minutes. Please, Matthew Anatoly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u14	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", block "Our Ukraine". Vladimir Stanislavovich, I know that from the initiative and from your active activities we have made a major step forward in the negotiation process with Russia on all the issues that concern us today -- both the demarcation and the delimitation, and the Black Sea fleet -- and I would like to express my gratitude to you. But I'd like to ask you, if you become a minister, can it activate these negotiations and bring us out into some very specific arrangement to stop speculation around all these problems and really demonstrate friendship with our northeastern neighbor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u15	Thank you, Your Honor Anatoly Sergiyovich. This line is definitely going to be extended. We already have the first results today. This year, a demarcation commission will begin its work on specific areas of our border. Delimitation process completed. Today we have seen very positive trends in the delimitation of the Azov Sea, although the problem of delimitation of the Kerchen Strait remains. Regarding the Black Sea fleet, we are in a very positive dynamic process. I believe that there are works that will soon allow us to move on to the main issue of land and property inventory, after which we will be able to approach the proper implementation of the commitments made by all parties. So the line of cooperation with the Russian Federation will continue on the understanding that we will definitely defend our nations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u16	Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u17	Let the Council work! Thank you. Check the system because it won't register. Dear Vladimir Stanislavovich, you have recently made great efforts to develop relations with the European Union, including the conclusion of this deepening agreement. You could not briefly inform, firstly, how the barriers to readmission are being removed and how effective and profound an agreement can be made to enhance Ukraine's cooperation with the EU.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u18	Thank you so much for asking. We've started a really active job in this direction, and you know, I've been taking part in the "three" session of Ukraine - the EU - on these issues. We've discussed the whole complex of our interaction. Then, on March 5, negotiations began on a deeper agreement. Of course, this is just the beginning. We're at this point where we're talking about task formulation, about getting to know the sides of our positions. But what we're focusing on here is that we need, as a result, to have a document that will allow us to solve very clear and pragmatic issues of our interaction, including the question of simplifying the emissary regime for Ukrainian citizens and readamision. We're actually at a very advanced stage in this job. You know, last October, these contracts were initialled. They predict a lot about the visa regime, a substantial relief for our citizens. The possibility of obtaining five - year - old visas is that many do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u19	Volodymyr Stanislavovich, we need to respond in a minute. It's not easy for a diplomat. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Ogryzko, what you said in your fundamental speech, of course, no one listened to it, because what you said, it's no one in this room really interested. Because of that, your fate depends not on what you say, what your professionalism is, but on what you've agreed to just now under the podium. That's why we came here today, the Yulia Tymoshenko Block, specifically to support your candidacy, because it's in your name that we see a high professional, a career diplomat and a Ukrainian patriotic intelligent person. That's why we're here to support you. My brief question to you is this. After the Council of Europe, Ukraine has a chance to take another tiny step towards European values. I'm talking about SAT. Some tiny inches were left. Tell me, please, when they will be overcome and when we can at least translate a little bit of the spirit that we are getting closer to European values.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u21	Thank you so much for your appreciation for my work. I want to assure you that I have been working, working, and in any other position, I will work to ensure that our nation's national interests are properly represented and distant. Regarding the WTO, we are indeed at the final stage of our negotiation process, and some details remain regarding the signing of the protocol with Kyrgyzstan. But the latest contacts at the highest level between the leaders of our country and the leaders of Kyrgyzstan hope that this will be overcome literally in the coming weeks. Then the technical work goes on and we have to go out on July to end this general problem by putting a dot and going over again, before we start talking directly and quickly with the European Union about the free trade zone. Today, the European Union is our biggest trading partner, 32.4 percent of our trade, and the free trade zone will enable us to significantly increase our economic presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u22	You're a widower.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u23	Dear Vladimir Stanislavovich, I have already spoken in the Supreme Council to support your candidacy for this important foreign minister for Ukraine. I think you're the best professional today, diplomat, loyal patriot of Ukraine. And this will, indeed, enable you to secure Ukraine’s national interests during difficult negotiations. Questions about the continuation of what a colleague of Matthew asked. Delimitation, demarcation and so on, and how's the distribution going, are there negotiations on the distribution of foreign property? And the more delicate question: the military industrial complex, I've been to Zaporozhye recently, is very interested in the possibilities of military-technical cooperation with NATO. It's not about membership, it's about perspective.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u24	Thank you, Your Honor Hennaday Josephovich. I thank you very much for your appreciation for my work, because I consider you the patriarch of Ukrainian diplomacy and my teacher in diplomatic activities. And I've always remembered that, and I'll remember that. And I would like to express to you my, indeed, personal sincere thanks for the teaching that I received from you when you were the director of our foreign policy. Regarding cooperation with NATO on the IPC line, it is certainly useful, it is necessary, and today we are talking about strengthening this cooperation, including in the context of the Zaporozhye region that you mentioned. Regarding foreign property, this question stands in the order of the day of our relationship, but so far we have no practical results here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u25	Please, there's no TV camera. You can't see the reporter then. Clear the central passage, please. One.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u26	Dear Alexander Alexander! I point out to you that the ruling has not yet been published, and I have been left out of voting rights. According to article 133, I will not be a deputy when the Supreme Council decree is made public. That's why I pressed the One button. And the question to Mr. Vladimir is this: Mr. Vladimir, as an experienced diplomat, do you think this about European values, and please tell us what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is doing to protect our citizens abroad? The previous minister, Tarasyuk, did nothing when an American tank crew shot our citizen, CNN journalist Taras Proczek. And there's no lawsuit from the state of Ukraine. On the contrary, the Spanish judge ordered an arrest. All right, tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u27	Instead of making remarks to me, you'd better ask questions. And now the candidate for the minister doesn't know what to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u28	Well, I understand the question, Alexander Alexanderovich. I would like to stress once again that the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens abroad is indeed one of the most important tasks facing the Ministry. And we do this daily, distinguished national MPs. Dozens and hundreds of cases that the MSS system abroad is the kind of advocate of the interests that you're talking about. Every day, our foreign diplomatic institutions, and we now have 122 in the world, are being approached by people who we give all possible assistance to, including court protection, protection of consuls, and so on. So, of course, the case you're talking about is a very covert case. But the question is not closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u29	Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u30	Garbage, Party of Regions. Alexander Alexandrovich, I would like to say that we have great respect for the consideration of the candidate for this post, which has been put forward by the President of Ukraine. But at the same time, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I would like to ask you to put a question to the vote, because our faction has not fully determined on the vote for today, to ask questions about the postponement of the debate and the vote on the Ogreska candidate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u31	Right. A miner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u32	Alexandre Alexandrovich. I, the Mountain, the faction of our Ukraine. I don't really understand what's going on around the rostrum. And I'm asking you to pass the question to Katerina Lewchenko. Please state your order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u33	Dear Volodymyr Stanislavovich. As I do, as head of the international centre Lastrada, which deals with the protection of Ukrainian citizens abroad, I welcome your work towards the formation of state policy, the support and protection of Ukrainian labour migrants. And your willingness to work and deepen your work in this area is very important for a future minister. I have a question about our citizens who work in Russia. Because according to the data of 2.5 million Ukrainians, it's there. Is it planned to review the deal on employment of Ukrainian citizens in the Russian Federation, which was made in the early 1990s. What's the plan?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Lewchenko, for that question. Right now, the work is being done to prepare a plan of action to guide our President and President of the Russian Federation, which contains a cluster of issues that relate specifically to the social protection of Ukrainian citizens who are temporarily present in the territory of the Russian Federation. There is a proper negotiation process, and we hope that we will be able to formulate appropriate work points in this regard, which would provide for the signing of several agreements: here both on pension insurance and on social protection. So these questions are in the perspective of our bilateral relationship. And we're going to be working actively in this direction with the help of colleagues from the profile ministries.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u35	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u36	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Fast, socialist faction. Alexandre Alexandrovich! I want to report as head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs that the matter was discussed at the committee meeting yesterday. Members of the committee did not make any substantive comments on the professional capabilities of Vladimir Stanislavovich Ogryzka, and the committee agreed to recommend it for consideration and approval at the meeting of the Supreme Council. But I would like to make such a personal statement that we should agree here to vote for the future minister's candidacy in foreign affairs. I think that this candidature should be voted on unanimously, and if there is a solution to this day, it is important for the image of Ukraine, as far as unity is concerned. And if there are any other outstanding issues today, then we still need to consult in order to reach consensus and to resolve the issue positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u37	It's not really a question that's being expressed by the committee. Vladimir Stanislavovich, thank you for your statement, the answers to your questions. Please, have a seat. The head of the profile committee, Victor Mikolayovich Tikhov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u38	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues, you know, in a human way, I feel sorry for the man who was standing on the rostrum today. And it's not our fault that he's already coming to the rostrum and trying to take the chair he's trying to get. If you remember what happened, the Secretariat of the President practically submitted the documents to us last time. Then he brought the papers, we voted down and refused to give place to B. Ogreska. What's going on yesterday? Yesterday again to the 12th Committee, here's a letter under Baloga's signature, where Baloga asks to reconsider and provides the entire package of documents under B. Ogrizko. We have begun the meeting of the Committee. On the fourth half, we receive a second letter -- here I am showing everyone -- on the form of the head of the Ukrainian President's Secretariat under Baloga's signature, where Baloga requests that consideration of B. Ogrizko's claim be postponed for exactly one week. Then, at the request of representatives of the factions of our Ukraine and of the U.S.B.U.T., specific people, they sit in the hall and won't let me lie, we removed the issue yesterday and brought it up for consideration next week. We therefore do not understand why we are considering this issue today, nor should it be on the agenda, and under the Rules should be considered the following week after the decision of the special committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u39	Have a seat, please. Okay. What is thought of by factions, let's hear what the faction thinks about it. Please sign in. Sign up for factions. Alexandrovska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, I think the situation is clear. The issue should be considered in the manner suggested by the Sectoral Committee. The other way is we can't do it and we can't do it. Because, you know, without the Committee's decision, questions in the Chamber should not be considered. But as a national deputy, I was surprised by a little one of those. Under the Constitution, the presentation must be from the President. And I have just heard that the documents have been submitted to Parliament, signed by Balogya. I understand the President's name is Victor Yushchenko. It therefore seems to me that this issue needs to be resolved at the time that there is still room for consideration on the relevant committee. Thank you for your attention. But the attitude of the Communist faction towards this candidature does not vary depending on anything. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u41	Baldirev. From the faction. Who is speaking from the faction of “Regions”? Raisa Vasilovna, Baldirev speaking? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished opposition, opponents of our loved ones. We're with you once and for all, we're looking at a situation of paralysis of power. That's what's happening in our room right now, it's called power paralysis. And it's your fault, unfortunately. You're the one who's putting the country in a dead end. I very much ask you, on behalf of your faction, on behalf of the entire anti-crisis majority, to consider entering the parliamentary work. What is happening today is unacceptable in any country, especially in a country where almost 50 million people live in a difficult geopolitical situation facing the challenges of modern history. Without a doubt, we cannot vote today in this uncertain situation, we cannot vote while the President's Administration changes its decisions every few hours. We insist that the vote should be postponed and voted on the following week following the consideration of the issues in the relevant committee. Thank you. And I hope for cooperation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u43	Thank you. It's a Belarus. A Turk? Please, Turkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u44	Dear colleagues! The state really can't work properly, the whole state machinery, the state apparatus can't work when the state doesn't have a foreign minister. It is the direction taken by the anti-crisis coalition that destabilizes the situation in the country that has led to the fact that the President has been unable to implement his constitutional powers for several months now that the state cannot, in turn, obtain a foreign minister. I would like to remind my honourable colleagues that the appointment of a foreign minister is one of the basic requirements for settling the situation in the country. And we think today the anti-crisis coalition wants to meet one of the requirements. What's more, my dear colleagues, I think that getting a foreign minister is actually turning the state's face back. There can be no State without basic protocol international things. And it is today that this question is put into the order of the day. At present, the media were able to observe very well how our colleagues changed their mood during the consideration of one issue. But one problem arose. I'm talking to the people who are asking me to move the questions and so on. Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz is a little experienced in regulatory matters. Oh, no? So Martinyuk will tell him that the question has already begun to be considered, and that you have changed your mood or that you have changed, please, there should be a successful vote today. A question cannot be interrupted without a successful vote. The only mechanism for breaking it up is to stop the session. That's why, honourable colleagues, we insist on the implementation of the regulatory framework -- to deal with this issue to the end and to make an effective decision. The question has already begun to be considered. It's about the Ogrezka's candidacy. Our faction was determined in his support when we met him, and we think he's a really professional diplomat, he's a person who's capable of representing Ukraine in the international arena, and we think that today the Supreme Council, when it really wants to stabilize the situation, should support this candidature and support the President's right to submit this candidature to the Supreme Council. Please, Alexandre Alexandrovich, don't take this question aside. We started looking at it, please let's get it to a logical conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u45	Please, from the faction of "Our Ukraine," Matthewnko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u46	Matvienko, Ukrainian Republican Party "Cobor", block "Our Ukraine". Dear colleagues, I am addressing all of you as representatives of the higher legislature. We need to understand that intrigue, betrayal of national interests, and irresponsibility in the name of some political temporary ambition leads Ukraine to a systemic crisis, where there is no return, and there will be no winners as a result of this systemic crisis. And it is clear, obviously, that the outcome of this systemic crisis should be demonstrated by Parliament, and Parliament should be making us all sit down today and think not about the portfolio, not about what a government official or a government manager looks like today, but where does Ukraine go? As a result of these intrigues, Ukraine loses its authority every day, and that is our authority with you. And of course, without trust, we cannot begin this process of normal work and overcoming this systemic crisis. Regrettably, such confidence came to light yesterday. The Prime Minister's initiative and Mr. Frost's promises were met yesterday with the President. All the media unanimously declared that the agreement had been reached with regard to the constitutional perspective and the foreign minister. I really support what this should really be the most supported and proclaimed today, because it is the authority of Ukraine. But unfortunately, we see that neither Mr. Moroz has any influence in his faction of the former, nor does the Prime Minister have any influence in the faction of the regions anymore. They obviously have their brains now. But I suggest that these brains return to national interest and vote today and, San Sanic, I address. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm sorry, I'm asking you -- the question is already being asked, the question is being considered. We have no reason to stop the discussion of this matter, it does not speak of our desire, but of the desire for opposition to return to this room. What really happened yesterday was what Tihonov was talking about. But, Alexander Alexanderovich, and I would like to address my colleague Tikhov, the committee has considered this issue previously, and we have a warning against documents that have not been presented, and we have made a decision to consider the Supreme Council. And that's why we have formal reasons to vote today. The reverse position is not wanting to have stability, destabilize the situation and further exacerbate it, and not work for Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u47	Vitaly Jakovitch of the Socialist faction. Out of the way, please, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u48	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Fast, socialist faction. Dear colleagues, if we open the Constitution, we'll see that there's not much of a last name. More loyal, not a name, but the name of a ministry, but the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is listed in the Constitution. This indicates that the Constitution attached great importance to the Ministry’s activities. And you realize that it's a lot to do with how our external political activities are going to be built, and from then on, and how we're going to look like a state today, how we're going to apply our relationship to the economic sphere. I wouldn't want to be as dramatic as my colleagues that it's all a disaster, that today seems to be the end of Ukraine's ability to communicate internationally. Because the relevant authorities are working, parliamentary diplomacy is working accordingly. And Vladimir Stanislavovich himself, as the acting minister in foreign affairs, is conscientiously carrying out his duties. But at the same time, I would like to point out that this is a very important chain of activity in the very foreign political direction of the state, which depends very much on. That's the first one. The other one. I wanted to say that yes, indeed, yesterday was important arrangements. But I still think the arrangements have to be made by all the parties who sat at the table yesterday. If someone claims otherwise today, they refuse to do something, this may indicate that they may not always have agreed on everything. So after consulting in our faction, we decided that we had no fundamental warnings about the candidate. I mean, he's a professional, he worked a lot at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And today we have many examples of the very benefits of his activity. And if there's any way for us to continue this topic today, we have to do this: we probably have to do this now, finish this question, vote, then decide how to proceed. Maybe take a break in order to consult on the continuation of this question, or maybe, in fact, maybe take a break with that question, in order to actually have a successful vote. And once again, I would like to emphasize that there is a need for consensus on this issue in order for all factions to vote positively for it. That's why we're going to show the possibilities of our own and the council, and about our aspirations to work with other nations in the international arena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, the factions have expressed their position on the foreign minister's candidature, rather than on the candidature, because there are no significant remarks, but on the address, in practice, but because of the reaction to the political situation that took place at the time of the candidature. Yesterday, during his meeting with the President, he addressed the Prime Minister, asking me to support the Ogryka candidate for Foreign Minister's office, demonstrating his desire to cooperate and to take the steps he guaranteed with regard to the adoption of changes to the budget and the signing of this document and many other things, he stated yesterday in front of the Security and Defence Council television cameras. I think the President's point of view is to listen, there's obviously a common idea here, both in the anti-crisis coalition, and not only. However, today’s consideration of the issue here shows that there are many things that are unclear, that I will not even talk about this correspondence from the administration that went after the negotiations, and that means, let’s say, a certain uncertainty. Additionally, comments have gone official and all the rest. I would, because the replica was here to me and to others about the impact on the faction or me or the prime minister. I would like to reassure those who are concerned about this matter. Of course, I'm excited to take that note, but I think we'll get to the bottom of this. With regard to the vote, the statements that have now been made, and the statements that are in the Internet materials that have already come out of the President's Office, there is no need for a positive vote here today in the session room. What is more, it takes a negative vote to make it possible. I'm talking about you right now. That's why. I'd like to listen to the thought-provoked thoughts that are expressed by the deputies of Smythech, Alexandrovsk, Boldirev, Šibko. And if Parliament decides to hold additional consultations so that we can have a convincing vote, because it's about the foreign minister, then we'll find, I think, an understanding in this session room without political subtexts, because that doesn't benefit anyone. On such an important issue, I would not want us to turn our political skills aside. Nobody needs this. A positive vote is needed, convincing, and that means protecting Ukraine's interests, not what one of the deputies now insists on. A proposal was made to postpone the consideration of the matter, the vote, until Tuesday. I'm offering Tuesday. We can do it early, we can do it tomorrow. But it will be more objective on Tuesday. I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:57:47]] For 245 Decision taken. Vladimir Stanislavovich, we're voting on Tuesday. The appointment of members of the High Council of Justice is under consideration. The head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u50	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. According to part two of article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Justice is composed of 20 members, three of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part two of article eight of the Ukrainian Act on the Higher Council of Justice, all the MPs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine have proposed the following candidates for appointment. This is Bondica Valerija Anatoliyovich, Zavalnjak Vladimir Vasilovich, Kolisnichenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Onichuk Mikolu Vasilovich, Labunski Angelika Viktorovna, Seljinova Anatolia Alexandrovich. At the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Justice considered the proposed candidates and concluded that they all met the requirements of the Law on the Supreme Council of Justice, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine determine by secret ballot the appointment of three members of the High Council of Justice by way of the submission of ballot papers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u51	Is there a question for the reporter? Do you have a question? Sign up for questions. Please. Peter Mikolaiovich. Sign up for questions. Nastyek, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u52	Dear Head, the Honourable Reporter. I'd like to use the opportunity to ask you a question, to announce the next one. First. I appeal to the Head of the Supreme Council and to the entire Supreme Council to postpone consideration of the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice for the following week. The Supreme Council of Ukraine has experience in the formation of such important bodies of judicial jurisdiction as the Constitutional Court, when factions were found to agree on candidates that could be elected on the basis of the results of a successful vote. It is not a secret that there is no such agreement in this case. Moreover, you know that this position is one of the conditions that should be discussed with representatives of the majority and minority in the expected negotiation process. And the last. I'm withdrawing my candidature from the discussion and consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u54	Alexander Alexanderovich! The Communist faction had received a statement from Selivanov Anatoli Alexandrovich, and they also requested that the nomination be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u55	Is there a statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u56	Yes. Peter Nikolayevich says what's going on. He was moving away from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u57	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u58	Sergei Vasilovich. Jaroslav Suhi, “Regions”. Tell me, how many candidates should be on the list and the secret ballot? As many as we are. Will there be candidates? How much should we leave? Who do we choose? The voting process itself in this case will then be incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u59	The lists remain for the transcript: Bondik Valerij Anatoliyovich, Zavalnuk Vladimir Vasilovich, Kolisnichenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Labunska Angelika Viktorovna. These nominations remain on the ballots. We have to choose three candidates by quota, and here we get four. By secret ballot, you identify three candidates who will win the largest number of votes and, more precisely, who will win 226 votes will become a member of the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u60	Right. No further questions, please sit down. Here's a different procedure, but obviously we'll take advantage of this: we'll first give the candidates this position from the rostrum to say their thoughts about the activities of the High Council of Justice, and then we'll make a statement from the factions about these candidates. So, Bondik, please come to the rostrum. Sergei Vasilovich. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! Indeed, in the Higher Council of Justice, as a constitutional body, there are great functions and, I think, in the event of a positive vote, I will be able to continue the work that was entrusted to me by the factions of the coalition: the Communist Party, the Socialist Party and the Party of the Regions, and I will be worthy to represent the Supreme Council in this constitutional body -- the Supreme Council of Justice. You know, the President's quota, the Supreme Council's science, the Supreme Court's head of office and all that. As for my experience, there's my biographical reference, my work wasn't new to me, this work, I once represented a district council on a qualified disciplinary commission of judges, and on competitive principles was elected by the council. I worked as the head of the Subcommittee on Justice and, by the way, we didn't have any problems and issues with all the deputies. As it is now, I work at the Ministry of Justice and, by the way, I accept all the deputies and I resolve all the issues within the framework of the law. Therefore, indeed, I have in my office an image of such an honest man, an officer of the customs and border guard Vereshtagin, who said, "I do not take revenge, I do not take it as an insult to the state!" So I'm refocusing your attention on the vote. All candidatures are worthy. You shall be appointed by vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u62	Questions to the candidate, please, what will they be? Sign up. Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u63	Valery Anatolyevich, I know you as a very decent, professional person. Most importantly, in your statement, you have now demonstrated your real attitude towards the problems of state-building, where there will be no room for politics. That is why I will certainly vote and support you. However, while Valery Anatolyevich, I would like to hear again from you that, even as an anti-crisis coalition, because we are putting you on the stand, you will be guided exclusively by the law, solely by the Constitution, in order to ensure that State building in Ukraine will continue using the best world standards and achievements that are now in world practice. Thank you for your attention. And I wish you great creative success.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u64	Thank you, Mr. Oleg. Indeed, you and I have all taken an oath to serve the people of Ukraine faithfully. The people are the only sovereign, the only bearer of any executive, legislative, judicial authority. That's why we're accountable to our citizens, and I'm in this position, by the way, they're the public office of the High Council of Justice, and I'm going to continue the initiations that I've continued on the Justice Committee, and once on the Qualifications Disciplinary Commission of Judges in the Donetsk Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u65	Thank you. Have a seat, please. It's called The Wave. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u66	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I also have a very clear understanding of the work of the High Council of Justice. So today I'm working as director of the Institute for the Training of Professional Judges at the Odessa National Law Academy and I'm working on a question that shows that we are actually preparing the lawyers who will be working in the Ukrainian judicial system in the future. We have judges at our institute doing one year at the station, two years at a time. And we have the opportunity not only to get to know the qualities that they show in the occupations but also the qualities of the person who testifies to whether he is in that position or not. If so, and you vote in favour of my candidacy, I am committed to doing all my duties clearly, and I understand the work of the High Council of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u67	Thank you. I'm just taking into account what the radio and television audiences are listening to, who thinks it's necessary, a little bit of Vladimir Vasilovich's biography. He is a professor of legal discipline, a deputy head of the Department of State Theory and Law of the Odessa State University of Mechchenkov, graduated from the university with a mark, the director of the Institute for the Training of Professional Judges of the National Law Academy, teaches a course of state theory and rights for 15 years, the head of the Odessa National Law Academy Professional Committee, a participant in martial law in Afghanistan, awarded the Medal of Courage, author of more than 40 scientific papers on the issue of law. This is general help. I didn't represent Bondica because he was an MP, so they know him anyway. Now, a question to the candidate, please. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u68	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Catherine Samuel Dear Vladimir Vasilovich! I ask you to answer the next question. Of course, we have a lot of questions about judges that go through here for life. But all who pass here have beautiful characteristics. Well, miracle people: they don't take bribes, and they're only insulted by the state for nothing, but they just crossed the threshold of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and we know we're reflecting. If a person does not respond to the interests of the judges according to his property, it is clear that he will never stand up for the truth in a court of law. So you're a future member of the High Council of Justice, do you think, but what obstacles do we have to put on the road so that such bribes don't pass and become permanent judges? And there's more. For which president did you receive a high national award?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u69	For President Gorbachev, because it was then.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u70	It was still with the Soviet Union. Thank you for asking. I understand clearly what the judge should do. In order to really pick out those candidates that need to work in the judicial system of Ukraine, the qualities that you now call negative, I think they need to be eliminated completely, because that is not the quality that is necessary for the job in question. How can we deal with this? I think it is necessary to raise such lawyers from the university’s desk, and then, in the process of training professional judges, to make sure that people actually carry out their duties with honor and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u71	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u72	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Vladimir Vasilovich, I have both questions and wishes. You know, there was a case in the Cherniewsky area where the question of Judge Troyanowski was being considered, which is, say, nowhere else, in the pit, or within what scope does his work as a judge. In doing so, clear materials were made available regarding the appropriateness of his position. But so far, let's say who's protecting these people, who are being prosecuted by the Cnerniewsky District Attorney's Office, is in the Novoselice Court of Justice. I don't know who's protecting him, but you have a question. If such an event is considered and you participate, what will be your position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u73	My position is really what it takes for, first of all, the people of Ukraine, for the state. A judge who may not be involved in activities that are necessary in accordance with his professional activities should not work. And to work, I think I'll be fine, because I understand my work at the High Council of Justice. And with regard to this concession to the judge, I don't know him yet, but I understand it wasn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u74	Have a seat, please. Thank you. Kolisnichenko Volodymyr Mikolayovich has the floor. Please. By the time he gets here, I'll have a little bit of biographic help for the radio and television audience. He was born in 58 C.E., of Kirovgrad. He graduated from Odessa State University with a badge. Today, the head of the Pecher district court of Kiev. He was a judge for 16 years. Rewarded by the Gramat of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Honorable Sign of the Supreme Council of Justice. The author of more than 10 scientific publications on law and law enforcement. Please. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u75	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! I want to thank you, first of all, for giving me the opportunity to be at least a candidate for membership in the High Council of Justice. I think it's probably some sort of evaluation, it's probably my job. All in my activities related to judicial activity, I have tried to remain a judge regardless of political beliefs, and fate has so arranged that I work now in court, in the Cave Court or luckily or not, but with you I experience the turbulent events that are the subject of today’s discussion and vision of each of us. Why was the judge of the first instance, a district court judge, appointed by a member to the candidates of the High Council of Justice? I think, first of all, that the High Council of Justice is responsible for the formation of the judicial corps of the judges of the first instance, the judges who work in the courts of general jurisdiction or other courts of the first instance. And to whom, rather than the judges of the first instance, the head of the court, should see the qualifications of the person who claims to be in office. The state of justice in the country concerns me as much as you do. And that's why I agree to travel to the members of the High Council of Justice, to work together, together, in some way, to influence what's negative today, it's both objective and not entirely relevant to the activities of the courts, and in general to improve the work of the courts, to improve the selection of personnel and everything that society can do to make it feel that the right to a violation can be protected in any court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u76	The question is to the candidate, Vladimir Mikolaiovich? Please sign up. I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u77	Samylik, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. This has been done with special love for judges, for she fought so much against bribery and injustice, and by the way, I did not succeed in going through those who took great bribes. But I want to ask you the next question. Of course, we must make sure that we have a judicial branch of power to defend the legality of Ukraine and the legitimate interests of Ukrainian citizens. I realize that much depends on whether the material security of the judges is right or not. The actions of those judges who engage in these illegal abuses and illegal acts also depend on this. Please tell me whether, in your opinion, the judges today are sufficiently materially provided, or, in your opinion, what the Supreme Council of Ukraine should take yet more legislative acts to support you in order to eradicate any negative phenomena in the judicial system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u78	Thank you. Of course, the lack of funding for the activities of the courts has an impact on the state of the judiciary and on the quality of the work of the courts. As far as wages are concerned, I want to tell you, along with being insufficient, but I think most judges realize that to the limit of raising wages and creating material conditions only for a judge, it will not be entirely fair, coming out of the country's capabilities. And so I'm going to have to tell you about the need to form respect and other branches of authority in the judicial system. And to create conditions so that the judge is not afraid to make a legal, balanced and just decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u79	Murderer, please, Leonid Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u80	Dear Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, I have a question concerning the personnel security of the judiciary and the staff of lawyers in general. In recent years, there has been such a situation that we have almost every university that has released experts in this category, but taking away and finding an expert lawyer today, and more of these graduates today to prepare a high-quality, professional judge, there is a big problem. In fact, what does your experience require of you to do in order in this area?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u81	Well, I think that's the way and the plans that are now in the process of judicial reform in preparation for specialized legal institutions are already judges. He deserves respect and must be continued. In view of the fact that more than 200 educational institutions are currently preparing lawyers for legal training, I believe that this should be a subject of careful study today. And perhaps most of these schools need to be dislicted, prepared. Because we didn't think of something to teach a doctor in the legal system, but yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The Lobun Angelica Victorian is invited. I'll tell you a little bit about her biography: she was born in 1967, graduated from the State University of Kiev, a lawyer, she owns Ukrainian, Russian, English, worked as the secretary of the courtroom at the Yellow District Court of the Year, a pretentionist accountant at the Kyiv base of Ukrkopostasgalantereia - three years, a lawyer at the University Law Faculty - two years, a lawyer-counsel at the bank - a year, a senior lawyer-counsel at the Ukridrzystrak "Oranta" – less than a year, a director of the legal department of the Banking Association – a year, a deputy head of the government of the state-run “Accold” – a year, a chief of the legal and management of the bank “Finance and credit” – a year and six years later – the head of the legal board of the legal board of the board of the board of directors of the four-years. I mean, he's got good legal training. Please come to the rostrum. She's not in the hall right now? Apparently the initiators didn't warn her, did I? Huh? I know this offer from the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Nevertheless, we are in a position to consider this candidature because it is a faction proposal. So since it's not on the rostrum, we're going to limit the possibility of questions and answers, because I hope that the MPs have already been identified in factions, we met where the need was. Now, is there a need to discuss candidates, or is it enough that you already had early information? No discussion, right? This is about the procedure itself. You will be defined in any way by a vote. For this reason, the head of the Counting Commission, Suhi Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, allow me to announce a meeting of the members of the Counting Commission in the third floor towers, cabinet number five. I'll give you a brief reminder of the warehouse. I am obliged to do so under the Rules. Sorry, no father's name. Members of the Counting Commission: Abdulin, Biruk, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, Vyezivsky, Gnatenko, Žebrovsky, Kirilczuk, Kozub, Komar, Korsakov, Final, Paklusenko, Rimaruk, Stasov, Stoyan, Sulkovsky, Sukhy, Zibenko, Tarasov, Filindash, Chubarov and Shago. Named colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies are requested to meet in our room in five minutes. Alexandre Alexandrovich, we're going to need some time to confirm the form of the ballot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u84	Announce, make an offer, we'll watch. Let's vote on the recommendation or, let's say, the will of the Supreme Council regarding the issuance of the bulletin. So in alphabetical order, all candidatures should be listed. Yeah? I'm voting on this proposal, please. [[11:24:40]] For 237 Such an offer is accepted. Work, and then express your opinions about the organization of voting. In the meantime, we are considering a draft regulation amending the Supreme Council Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys of Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Fifth Council Committees and the Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads and Secretary of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. [[concerning Horoshkewicz O.S.]] This is a project of the People's Deputy Creel. Igor Ivanovich in place? How? The head of the committee, I'm sorry. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyovich, your question, please. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Deputy Ethics and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! The committee considered at its meeting a draft decree by the People’s Deputy Krill, Skutkak. To comply with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the draft Order proposes to elect the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Horoshevitch, Alexander Sergiyyovich, a member of the deputy faction of the Block "Our Ukraine", a member of the Committee on Fuel and Energy Complex, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security, exempting him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. The calculated quota for the Democratic People's Party of Our Ukraine in the Committee on Fuel and Energy, Nuclear Policy and Nuclear Security has not been fully used. The committee has decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft decision be supported, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u86	There's no question about the reporter, is there? Please, Alexander Sergiyovich, a question from Adam Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u87	I don't have as many questions as I'd like to ask, Alexander Sergiyyovich, I think we should assign a task to the committee of profile to not just look at the rule of law, whether it has a quota or not. He would also look at the Committees Act on the Number of Committees. Because maybe the faction converts one of its faction members from one committee to another, the quotas don't break, but at the same time there is a minimum number, or it decreases completely to the required tens, as set out in the Pro Committees Act, and we should dissolve the committee. That is, the request that the committee still look at this norm when it considers such matters.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u88	By the way, like this situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u89	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, we are looking at this quota, but this is the desire of the factions under the Rules, so we are operating within the Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u90	I see. So the Chernobyl Committee remains. Well, please. I am voting on the proposal of a committee and initiators to consider the question of the admission of the national deputy Horoshkewicz to the committee, as announced by the head of the profiling committee. [[11:28:42]] For-16 The decision is not supported. This is the exact moment that I have to support, and I'm talking to those who vote against it, but you can see it better. There are responsible people in the hall, and the irresponsible have left the hall. Thus, those responsible would have to make a decision. Draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purpose of verifying the facts of the obstacles to the management of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine for the detection of murder warrants. It's a V.Swedish project. National MP Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich, who is the author of this decree, requests that its consideration be postponed in connection with the situation. Who wants to move, please support the offer? [[11:29:57]] For the 15th. This proposal is not supported. We need to look at it essentially. Svoslav Vasilovich Olijnik. Then the head of the Committee of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u91	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, honourable national deputies, the committee at its meeting on 6 December 2006, reviewed the draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the verification of the facts concerning the obstacles to the management of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine to the disclosure of the ordered killings made by members of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the law enforcement of law enforcement activities by Sweden, Olijanik, Cosemyakinim, Malinovski, in accordance with the requirements of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee was not determined in its consideration of the issue, and no decision was taken. A further change has taken place since the introduction of the proposed project into the commission, namely, the People's Deputy Voropeyev is a member of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of the effectiveness of the operation of special economic zones and areas of priority development in Ukraine, and Korz Viktor Petrovich has ceased his parliamentary powers on 14 December 2006. Furthermore, according to article 80, part three, and article 82, part two, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there is no indication of the size of the Commission. In view of the above, we ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u92	In view of the fact that I had given the commission to the committee to consider the matter in substance. Please take a seat, Alexander Sergiyovich. In response to a complaint by a special investigator at the Attorney General's Office, which we've examined, we've studied, and it's said that the facts are actually confirmed that some of the officials of the Attorney General's Office, obviously in the previous period, have blocked the possibility of an investigator's activity when it comes to murder warrants, and when it comes to high-level cases in Kiev and not just Kiev. So there is no doubt that such a commission should be created, created, allowed, but represented by solid lawyers, deputies who can set up evaluations, help the prosecutor's office correct the situation if it depends on the current composition of the prosecutor's office, but no one can stand apart from the case because it is extremely important, resonant and requires intervention by parliament in order for people to trust the prosecution's authorities. So I would like to support the proposal to create such a commission. If there's a frame replacement, then you can substitute it into a working order by voting, that's not a problem. I'm asking you to vote on a motion for a temporary commission of inquiry. It's on your hands, number 2310. [[Registration number]] I'll bet you a vote. [[11:33:51]] For-33 “For” is determined by 33 deputies. It's a question that's being considered, but I'm going to insist on returning to it when there's enough deputies in the room. Under the second reading procedure, the draft Law amending the Criminal Code on the fight against nuclear terrorism in connection with the ratification of the International Convention on the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism is proposed. And he is bound by a draft law amending the Code of Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on liability for violations of radiation safety rules. Please, Gusarov Sergey Mikolaiovich, this is the head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u93	Well, then, introduce yourself to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u94	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, the committee decided that I would report to the committee. Under this bill, we had a rather serious and lively discussion, and today we have to consider in our second reading a draft of Law 3100 on responsibility for violating the radiation safety rules submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I will not dwell in detail on the need to improve the legal field in the area of radiation safety and the relevance of this issue to society and the state. This was mentioned during the first reading of the bill and, by the way, no one questioned the need to support the bill. So I want to stop at the legal features of this editorial that are prepared for the second reading. First, we have increased administrative responsibility for actions that are expressed in entering the zone, voluntarily settling in it or destroying it, damaging or transferring the signs of radiation pollution or the fence of the area. The increased fines, particularly for citizens, increased the maximum fine from 255 to 850 dollars; for officials, up to 425 dollars, from 425 to 1 thousand 20 dollars. The possibility of confiscation of tools and means of committing an offence was also considered. At a committee meeting yesterday, the head of the committee and some deputies insisted that this type of administrative tightening be excluded. But the final decision must be made by the Supreme Council. With regard to the Criminal Code, article 267-1 of the Penal Code introduces the Code, “Contravention of the rules of radiation safety”. Immediately, I will point out that the text of the standard proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers, by the efforts of the national deputies, has been substantially redrafted in accordance with the requirements that apply to the writing out of a criminal component that is to be understood, clear and enforceable. But I emphasize that all ideas are preserved, in particular, criminalized the movement of any way outside the alienation zone or the area of unconditionally mandatory eviction without the provision, provided for by law, permission or the exercise of dosimetric control of any object. The establishment of criminal responsibility for such acts poses an acute danger to the future society that is being dispersed in Ukraine by radionuclides from the zone. At the same time, the first part is very democratic. Three types of punishment are envisaged within a fairly broad range, allowing for differentiation of responsibility when dealing with specific matters, depending on the objects of exportation. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u95	Please continue. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u96	Part two of the article will oppose the acquisition of items that have already been removed from the zone by persons who know their origins. This is a blow to traffickers, in various areas that make money for our children’s health. Part three is designed to combat those who are building business on the soles of the specified objects, which is a significant deterioration in the distribution of radionuclides in Ukraine. Part four includes crimes involving burdensome circumstances, such as the commission of a crime by a ministerial servant or repeatedly, or if it has caused loss of life or other serious consequences. It should be noted that the question of establishing the responsibility of officials has brought together the members of the committee, since such a need is evident. The table of comparison is shown. In particular, many national deputies have made amendments. And Deputy Levchenko Catherine Borissovna proposed to increase the responsibility of officials in the field of radiation safety through changes to articles 365, 367 of the Criminal Code. In general, out of the five suggestions made in writing and several other comments made in the Committee’s discussion, the vast majority are counted. And this is because, according to the commission of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, the drafting of the draft for the second reading was to be completed in a very short time. In summary, the adoption of this bill will be an important step towards overcoming the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster and please support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u97	Thank you, Vasil Mikolaiovich. I'm talking to the MPs again, the second reading procedure is being examined by law, not large enough, but it's interfering with several laws, so we're going to look at them consistently. The first is the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code of Ukraine on Liability for Violations of Radiation Security Rules. Registration number 3100. Here Vasil Mikolaiovich said correctly, we have five amendments: four of them are taken into account, and the amendment of Levchenko is disregarded, rejected. If she insists, she can stand her ground, if she doesn't, I have the right to put this whole law into motion, including changes to the vote. I'll bet you a vote. Please. Vasil Mikolaiovich, you'll be next. [[11:41:18]] For 243 243. I will continue to vote on other amendments to other laws, but for now the announcement will be made by Dry Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, because there is a commission to work there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u98	Dear National Deputies! According to article 38, paragraph 1, of the Rules, you and I have already approved the form of a secret ballot for the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. I'll show you this ticket: half of the A-4 sheet is white. There are 4 candidates on the list. The chosen persons are those who, against the surnames of any configuration – cross or branch – have been marked. 226 votes. And there is the mark “I do not support any”. The form of protection of this bulletin is the signature of the head of the Counting Commission, the Secretary of the Counting Commission, and the image of the vote. I remind all my distinguished colleagues that the basis for the issue of the newsletter is personal. is the personal appearance and presentation of the testimony of the Ukrainian national deputy. I'm announcing it. Elections to serve as members of the High Council of Justice will take place at 12.00 p.m. At the place where we're registered. Under the Rules, the vote may not be less than 1 hour, so the vote will last for one hour. So the vote starts at 12:00. I ask everyone to do their duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u99	Thank you. I'm asking you to come to the rostrum of Vasil Mikolaiovich. A draft Act amending article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine is under consideration on second reading. A chariot on the rostrum, a national deputy, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice discussed at its second reading the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 112 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, registration number 2216, and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the bill be adopted in a second reading and as a whole. To implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s ruling, the Committee on Justice revised the bill to take into account the comments and suggestions made by legal entities. All proposals and amendments made to the bill’s right of initiative are taken into account or partially taken into account in the comparative table. The changes proposed by Deputy Olijnik have a completely different concept that is not in line with the proposed bill. That's the first one. And a few. The amendment of the Lachka MP is rejected. But this is a question at the second stage, of course, how important it will be in the next bill. And there is such a request, dear colleagues. In paragraph three of the Final and Transitional Positions, there is a technical adjustment. The third article states that the judicial investigation into crimes provided for in articles of the Criminal Code has been violated. And here's the phrase: "before this law becomes effective" has to be changed to "before this law enters into force". Alexander Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u101	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u102	Because there's a gap in the months. It's going into effect.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u103	Well, I get it, well, yeah. The oilman, the first amendment, she's rejected, doesn't insist on her vote? No, it's not. Next, Easy, second amendment, also rejected, he does not insist. The rest of the amendments are taken into account, except for the fifth Olympic, which is also rejected, and he does not insist. In this way, it can be made with the comments that Koleshnichenko made, and it can be put on second reading as well as in general. I beg you, there goes the vote, taking into account the remarks made by the reporter. [[11:46:43]] For 239. Decision taken. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Master Code, Project 0906, reports Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. [[to harmonize with the Civil Code of Ukraine]] Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, draft law 0906, the author of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was considered in the first reading and the previous session, the previous convening of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. During that time, amendments had been tabled, amendments had been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic, Policy and Approval. You have a table with these amendments. Yesterday, at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council, a document was received from the Cabinet of Ministers on the re-examination of these amendments, and several amendments were withdrawn by Valentin Ivanovich Landik. As a result, amendments No. 4 were withdrawn. From fourth to 21st, the 25th amendment was withdrawn and the 37th to 45th amendments were withdrawn. The Committee invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve the bill 0906 in the light of the amendments that have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u105	Right. The amendments that have been rejected in the committee insist on the basis of their position? They themselves agreed to take them out. I'm talking to the reporter: the legal office is proposing that the second reading be reissued. What do you say? That's what the manual says.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u106	The Committee voted yesterday to adopt it on final reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u107	I've got the position. So given what the committee is proposing, given that part of the amendments were withdrawn by the authors themselves, and the other committee withdrew, I am voting on the second reading and on the whole this bill. Registration number 0906. Please. [[11:49:47]] For 247 Decision taken. Question under consideration, Registration number 2355, Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government by Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, the State Building Committee has prepared a draft law for the second reading. You remember the problem that has arisen, which is the legalization of the deputy heads of district councils, district councils, district councils. The problem was initially in the first reading of the accepted hall. We still got 15 suggestions for second reading. Most of these proposals are included. You have a comparative table on your hands. And we also got, unfortunately, it wasn't the legal administration's fault, it was the Chief Legal Authority's observation regarding the technical and legal development of this project. Since the transcript requires that it be understood that we are voting, sounding, I am, by your permission, of these observations, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u109	And all the remarks by the second reading procedure do not need to be announced. You can talk about the general logic of the changes made to the second reading. How they improve the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u110	We've defined the exact number of substitutes depending on the level of the board. That's the first one. The other one. We've determined the procedure for the release of the deputy and the council's heads. Not by two thirds of the vote, but by a simple majority. We also identified the principal functions of substitutes and, in fact, everything. The observations of the Legal Authority relate to technical legal rights, which, without altering the substance of the law, make it more perfect in terms of legal technology. In our view, these remarks could be put to the text and voted with these remarks in mind. If the authors of the amendments have any suggestions, they may be amended. If there are no such suggestions, I would like to make a comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u111	Clearly, Sergey Leonidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u112	I've got it, Alexander Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u113	Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u114	Sergey Leonidovich, distinguished colleagues! Here in the eighth amendment you counted, but again you wrote "representatives". So I suggest that there be no rereading, look again at the text at the final edition, to everywhere as you suggest, write “first deputy” and “representative”. So there won't be any more explanations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u115	Adam Ivanovich! It's these observations in the Legal Office that I'm asking you to give them a chance to make a sound so that we can vote on these observations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u116	It's accepted, there's no objection. Dear colleagues! Among the amendments is only one that is rejected, the Bespaleg amendment, does it seem so? Does the author of this amendment want to defend its contents? None. So I have every reason to put this whole project to a vote, taking into account all the comments that the reporter made and that you have in the document. I repeat, the ones that the rapporteur, Kuzmenko, put to the vote. Please be sure. It's like the law. [[11:55:28]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u117	Alexander Aleksandrovitch, perhaps really, let us emphasize once again that we agree with what the Legal Authority is proposing, which gives the council a month to comply with the law, that is, to take into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u118	It's a position. That's what counts. This will be edited in the document. There is a proposal for a draft Coal Fertility Law to be moved to the next sessional week in view of the fact that there is a letter from the committee asking for a transfer. I'm voting on this proposal. The committee head, Mikola Martinenko, signed it. [[11:56:37]] For 233 A decision has been made. 233 votes. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Physical Culture and Sports. [[on the prohibition of the closure and retraining of establishments]] It's a very important document. The first deputy head of the Family Committee and young Alexander Volkov will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u119	Dear Mr. Speaker, dear colleagues. At its meeting on 13 February this year, the Committee reviewed the draft Law amending article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sport and decided to recommend that it be considered in a second reading and accepted as a whole. [[on the prohibition of the closure and re-invention of establishments and physical and health and sporting objects]] [[Decision No. 2181]] During the second reading of the bill, two amendments were made to the committee. First. The amendment of the National Deputy of Ukraine to Tomenka, according to which the rule of law on the prohibition of the closure and retraining of physical and sports establishments, the Olympic and Paralympic bases, physical and sporting facilities, does not extend to privately owned establishments that meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. The other one. The amendment of Ukrainian national deputies Tomenka, Volkova, and Safiullina, which, taking into account the disastrous situation with physical culture and sports facilities in the countryside, highlights the focus of the central executive body of physical culture and sport on the implementation of the requirements of the law to ensure that measures are taken to prevent the reduction of the network of listed objects, as well as on the restoration of their activities by identifying their sources of funding in rural areas. Taking into account the importance of enacting legislation to involve broad levels of the population in physical culture and sports with the aim of preventing diseases and of preventing offences in the youth and adolescent environment and the acute closure and retraining of physical culture and sports institutions. Please support the specified project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u120	Thank you. In view of the fact that there are only two amendments to Mikola Tomenka, which are taken into account by the committee, as they complement and improve the law itself, I place this bill as a bill, registration number 2181. Please identify yourself. [[12:00:00]] For 244, the decision is made. There is still a proposal to withdraw the draft Social Work Act. The committee, after considering these issues, is asking for the level of readiness and content of the problem itself to be moved to the next week, this is project 0958. Do you want me to take it off the table? Take it off the table. Yeah, that's what the committee says. I'm voting on this proposal, draft Decree 0958. This is a motion for a withdrawal order. Please. Here comes the vote. [[12:01:02]] For 241 Thank you. A vote of 13 hours is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u121	Take your seats. We're continuing the meeting. Ratification is currently under consideration. I would like to take a closer look at this section of the sitting. Project 0054 is a registration number. This is a draft of the Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investment. The Deputy Minister of Economics, Ludmila Abdrahmanovna Musina, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u122	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! The agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on mutual promotion and protection of investments was signed on 30 November 2005 and is subject to ratification under the International Contracts Act. The agreement strengthens the commitment of each of the contractual parties to the full protection and security of the investments and profits of the other party’s investors. It also contains effective mechanisms to prevent the unwarranted expropriation of the funds of investors of one contracting party invested in another's economy, the mechanisms to ensure the repatriation of income from investment and the settlement of disputes between contracting parties. In this context, it is very useful for the positive international image of Ukraine and the expansion of investment volumes. I want to inform you that the trade balance between Ukraine and the Hashimite Kingdom has been positive and has increased more than a year and a half in the past. The positive balance and trade in goods are mainly metal products, agricultural products, and exports of services: exports of travel, transportation services. And we're registered to 31 companies from this country. Thus, the adoption of this agreement will increase investment in the economy of Ukraine. The Expert’s conclusion is positive. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u123	Will there be questions for the reporter? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. What does the committee think about this? Please, Deputy Plonikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u124	Dear Head, honourable national deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Economic Policy at its meeting on 14 March this year reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Hashimite Kingdom of Jordan on Mutual Promotion and Protection of Investments, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And he decided to recommend to the Supreme Council that the treaty be ratified. Given the fact that Jordan is a fairly strong partner of Ukraine in this region, it is very important to have an appropriate agreement on mutual investment protection. This agreement foresees that mutual investment will be conducive to no less national investment if more national-friendly and equally favourable than third-country investment if third-country investment has a more favourable regime. The principal think tank of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has also made a positive conclusion regarding the ratification of this agreement. I therefore invite the people's deputies to vote in favour of the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u125	Alexy Vitaliovich, did no one say no to the committee during the discussion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u126	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u127	Do the deputies have a question for Alexia Vitaliovich? None. Have a seat, please. Are there those who would like to express their thoughts on the matter? We're gonna vote, right? Then I put to the vote a draft law, registration number 0054 on the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Jordanian Hosemite Kingdom on mutual promotion and protection of investment. [[13:04:44]] For 233 Decision taken, thank you. I made a tactical mistake. The point is, since 12 o'clock, we've always been looking at Thursdays. Of the 12:30 issue of personnel, the appointment of judges. So I'm asking this question right now. No, no, nothing. And Sergey Vasilovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u128	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice at its meeting on 5 March 2007 considered the appointment of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the heads of the higher specialized courts to elect the judges on an open-ended basis, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling of 3277 of 6 March this year. Honorable national MPs, after the procedure that has been concluded, read out the name of the judge, the judge rises from the seat, and if there is a warning to him, the national deputies report it from the place. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and returned to its consideration after the second vote. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Marinin Alexander Viktorovich The Court of Appeal of the Odessa District of Segeda Sergio Mikolaiovich The Court of Appeal of the Herson district of Sážinov Vladislav Volodymyrovich The Court of Appeal in the Cherkas region of Skits Mikol Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u129	Skicia.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u130	Skica, I'm sorry. Lviv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Javorski Ivan Aleksandrovitch Kharkiv’s Administrative Court of Watery Natala Seminal. Kiev’s Court of Appeal, Michael’s Julius Borisovna Kiev-based interdisciplinary appeals court Fedorchuk Ruslan Vasilovich Sevastopol’s Court of Appeal Antonov Iraida Volodymyrna Local Simferopol District Court of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Ishchenka Illu Viktorovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u131	He's on the balcony over there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u132	The local Torres Town Court of the Donetsk district of Stryzakov Tetjana Victorian. The local Yellow District Court of Zaporozhye Minasov Volodymyr Valeriyovich. The local Johno-Frankow City Court of Ivano-Frankow District of Konovalov Natal Ivanovna. Local Frunzen District Court of Odessa, Koro Svetlana Mikolayevna Local Primorski District Court of Odessa Teryohin Sergeyyyovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u133	Just a minute. Please. Do you have a note? We remove it from the list, then you end up saying it. It's about who? Teryochina Sergei Evgeniovich? Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u134	Fedusic Victoria Volodymyrna. Local decanna district court of Poltava district of Woddinka Anatolia Evgeniovich The local Carlivian District Court of Poltava district of Žmurk Pavel Jaković. The local Ravenna City Court of the province of Ravenna, Timoschuk, Alexander Jaroslavovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u135	Just a minute. Okay, we're not looking at it right now, let's look at it separately. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u136	The local Lenin district court of Kharkiv Viktorov Viktorovich. The local Frunziov district court of Kharkiv Bondarev Irina Volodymyrna. The local Pecher district court of Kiev Smik Svetlana Ivanovna Local.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u137	Just a minute. Smile.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u138	Smile.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u139	Svetlana Ivanovna, fine. I wrote it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u140	The local Donetsk District Administrative Court, Djachenko Svetlana Petrovna. Local Zitomir District Administrative Court of Kaputinsky Mikhailovich The local Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Samoylov, Valentin Vasilovna. The local Hmelnick District Administrative Court of Nikolaichuk Mikola Evgenovich. Local Commercial Court of the Lviv district of Levitsk Natalija Georgieva The Maslovska Lilia Zachariah. Local Commercial Court of Poltava Court of Korshenk Yuri Aleksandrovitch The local court of the Plains region of Pietuhov Mikhail Georgievovich The committee's asking for support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u141	Thank you, Sergei Vasilovich. So there are no comments to those candidates other than Teryochin, Timothy, and Smik. Can we vote on this ruling except for these candidates?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u142	We can. For.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u143	Then I put to the vote the draft Decree 3277, taking into account the comments I made. There's a vote coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u144	No, Odessa was removed. [[13:11:16]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Now about Teryochin Sergey Evgenovich, who was working for us? Who? Cosaczenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, before us is a brilliant representative of the raiding in the judicial branch of power, you can see this from the materials on your desks. An analysis of the investigative part of the complaints he made showed, over a year and a half, 44 of his decisions were overturned, 35 of them for violating procedural law. Teryochin, for example, is characterized by a 30 million-dollar decision to reimburse VAT to a fictitious firm. Let me remind you that this is actually the position of the household courts or the ban on holding meetings with shareholders -- the famous raider scheme. According to his decisions, the Supreme Council of Justice and Mrs. Izvitov, which is in our Hall, made a proposal on February 7, this year to release Teriochin from his office as judge. The Supreme Council has to put an end to the raid. And some colleagues rightly say that this is a political issue, because the policy of the State must be to prohibit the presence of raiders in the judicial branch of power. I'm asking my colleagues not to support this raider. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u146	How else is there reasoning on the committee’s mind? Wait, what were the thoughts on the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, regarding the judge of the coastal district court, Teryohin Sergey Volodymirovich, we have checked Terehin four times. On three occasions, the Supreme Committee has been adjourned, and several times has been suspended. I am here specifically at a meeting of the committee to be more objective, and I have instructed the Ukrainian national deputy Zamkovenko Mikoli Ivanović, who is here, to go, to go to the place and check. This is where Zamkovenko went and checked, and there's his full information about Terehina. We have not seen any violations of procedural or other violations by Judge Terehina. And yesterday, the Committee was reaffirmed that we supported it and did not see any violations on the part of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u148	Yuri Borisovich Krock.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u149	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, I would not like to and we in the Supreme Council, as much as we do not judge, to be able to deal with each case in very detail. If today a young judge who is 33 years old and well known as a district manager, that is to say, Lunikenka, you remember, this is a regional court of appeal. Here, the territorial administration of the State Court Administration, the District Court of the Primorski Region, has a purely positive character. And most of all, he's been looking into cases in the coastal area, he's been looking at about 2,000 cases, maybe he's made a mistake. But tell me, if there are expressions such as “qualityly fulfilling its duties”, “principal judge” and so on, the positive views of the district chief of appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u150	He's here, isn't he, Terjehochin? Is Teryohin there? Wait a minute. Vasil Vasilovic is the head of the Supreme Court. I ask you to wait, calmly, the head of the Supreme Court is speaking to Onopenko Vasil Vasil Vassilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u151	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, honorable judges. I think we need to take a closer look at the Teryochin situation. I have heard of the principled approach to the selection of judges and their election. It doesn't smell very good here, Sergey Vasilovich, in principle. Here are the materials that you've studied and passed on, 44 decisions on raiding matters. Just one decision to avoid recommending to a judge. The solution. Dozens have been canceled. What quality do you refer to as the work of this judge? I have a Supreme Court hearing with the High Council of Justice on the dismissal of this judge. It's not like those judges don't have to sit behind a chair. And we'll make sure he doesn't work as a judge. Let's be equal to everyone, not any other criterion. If we have begun to purge the judiciary, this should be the case with everyone. No raider, no judge should pass through the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u152	I suggest then, if you don't mind if we don't take the risk of voting here, let the committee take another look at the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u153	Alexander Alexandrovich, well, we've seen it four times.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u154	I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u155	One more thing. On 11.10.2006, Judge Terjohina of the Council of Judges concluded, and I have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u156	And you insist on voting?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u157	I insist on voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u158	I see. Taking into account the reasoning expressed by the Chief Justice and other participants in the proceedings, I am voting on Teryochin’s candidacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u159	Wait.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u160	Take down the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u161	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! I was told there were several tests. Let's do this, I'm going to have the Supreme Court Judges' Council of Judges, who are going to test this judge, and there's actually a situation in the Primorski Court. We have information that this is not the case in the court itself. And then we'll make a responsible decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u162	Let him take another look at the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u163	Again, I'm sorry. Let's do it. Well, the Supreme Court has no right to examine, there is only one body that can verify – the Supreme Council of Justice. Let us entrust the High Council of Justice and then, once again, we will consider the Committee once again. Then how about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u164	We give a commission to the committee, a committee in accordance with its functions can involve whom it deems necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u165	All right, let's move it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u166	Is such an offer accepted? That's why I'm not voting on this issue separately. The committee will reconsider. Timothy's questions, Timothy Alexander Jaroslavovich's candidates. Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski asked for the floor. Please, he made a note.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u167	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I appeal to my colleagues and to the Supreme Court of Vasil Vasilovich Onopenek. The same is true of Mr. Timothychuk, Judge of the Raven City Court. Vassil Vasilovich, you know, a year ago, you didn't spend this gentleman in Parliament, not even individual officials insisted. You're surprised that according to the Rules, we can't do it once and for all through Parliament anymore, and here for the fifth time anyone else wants to leave the theater for Ukraine, I don't speak for the world anymore. Therefore, I ask you, Mr. Timothychuk is also a judge of the Raven City Court, and for the second year he has not come to work for a variety of reasons. And today, Mr. Kiwalov, let him say, he is a help. Right now, fictitious medical assistance is being done outside the chief of the military hospital. Just for you, Head of the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u168	Give him 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u169	Just now, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I've put it down for you: literally Klonov, the head of the Raven City Hospital, gives an answer, we've just asked that he didn't show up for the Supreme Council meeting today, the same Timoschuk as he did. And the hospital’s chief of staff has established that it was fictitiously given by the doctor, as confirmed personally by the head of the Ravensky City Hospital. So I ask you not to go back to this judge for whom there are several criminal cases with his own brother, who also works in the district attorney's office. Such a spectacle has not yet been known, without speaking for Ukraine! I urge the people's deputies to withdraw the question now and no longer return to Parliament the judge of the Raven City Court of Timoschuk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u170	Please, don't worry. Calm down, Catherine Seed! Sit down, Catherine Seed! Paul Gnatovich, this is a discussional question that Equality did not know the greater, so to speak, the theatre. So let's not get engaged. And then, that's not a fictitious statement. It says here it's wrong, it's wrong. So that's something else to consider. But the proposal is quite clear: not to look at Timothy's candidacy. But the draft submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council needs to be voted on, so with regard to the appointment of Timoschuk Alexander Jaroslavovich as judge, I am putting the vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u171	For objectivity, respectable colleagues. We have a statement from Judge Timoschuk and there is medical help, there is. And I'm guilty of telling you that there are such documents. And how the Supreme Council will decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u172	No, that's how the Ministry of Defense and the Military Department's help is, which is a military hospital in Equino, that this help is invalid. Please. I'm voting for the appointment of Judge Alexander Timothy. Please. [[13:22:21]] For 1 The solution. The proposal is not supported. Now the Smik Svetlana Ivanovna candidate. Baby, please, Oleg Valeriovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u173	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, I would like to ask you not to support Smik Svetlana's candidacy as Judge of the Cave Justice. Every single one of you, and Adam Ivanovich has said this more than once, the famous reputation of the Cave Justice. So this reputation is quite negative, including the actions of judges like Smick. Let Sergey Vasilovich explain why she has not been elected judge for a long time, for the third year. The Supreme Council had voted on the previous call – it did not support its candidacy, and was once again brought into the hall because there was no new submission of the Supreme Court, but on the basis of an old submission. A well - known story of a search in an apartment when Svetlana Ivanovna’s task force entered the safe house, pulled the money out of it, and left. I mean, it's an extremely scandalous person, and it's an extremely unbalanced decision to be chosen by such a judge of the Cave Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u174	Oleg Valeriyovich, do you speak the money of who? How much? Or maybe she had nothing to do with getting home, taking her money, and going home. Well, there's always a lot of money in someone else's hands, so let's just take it easy. What did the committee say in this regard?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u175	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, honourable deputies. We considered it on the committee and repeatedly recommended that Judge Smik Svetlana Ivanovna be elected judge. We asked the High Council of Justice. The Supreme Council of Justice found no basis for the release of Smik Svetlana Ivanovna from the position of judge. There's no criminal involvement. The present acting head of the High Council of Justice, Izboit’s Lydia Pauline, is present, may say something.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u176	Other comments were made by colleagues. Do you have a note? Please. That's right. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, I am fully supportive of the fact that Smyak cannot be chosen. What happened in the search of the apartments and where the forms of the Attorney General's Office were found, where they found unregistered weapons, where they found $8,000. And then Smyke offered the bribe to the Major of the Police, or he said, "If you don't fabricate the protocol, you'll lose your job." Indeed, the Major of the Police lost his job. And thanks to Attorney General Vasilev, we have restored this man to work. There is no way to vote for Mrs. Smythe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u178	Thank you. Is Svetlana Smik here? Please approach the microphone. What can you say about this? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u179	Indeed, in 2004, there were circumstances that were the subject of further consideration in the High Council of Justice. As established by the Supreme Council of Justice, no violation has been established in my actions, either as oaths or as judges. It was only my personal life that was involved, and I did not threaten anyone, nor did I influence anyone, nor did I offer anything. The money, indeed, was mine, who were at my mother’s funeral. They weren't the subject of a search, they weren't the subject of any criminal case. In addition, a criminal case that had been committed in connection with a search was later abolished as an illegal case. Throughout my work of any claim of others to my professional activity as senior judicial authority, there has never been. So I'm asking the people's deputies to give them a chance to continue working and doing justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u180	Svetlana Ivanovna, and what did the search do? On whose initiative, and in what matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u181	There was an illegal criminal case, a treaty, as if forged. I wasn't really aware of these things.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u182	Representative of the High Council of Justice. Sorry, we've known each other a long time, but I do. Lydia Pavlovna, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u183	The Supreme Council of Justice, in fact, checked the circumstances. And it was established that there was an illegal search in the lawyer's room. In the attorney’s room, a lease was sought by order of the investigator. Svetlana’s lawyer, Ivanovna Smick, was in a civil marriage and had a separate safe and really had the keys to the safe. It was she who came into the room when this search was done, it was Sunday, and the keys to this safe were no one but her, she went home, she brought the keys herself, she opened the safe, she reported that the money lying there was hers, because she had a very sick mother, she was in a hospital in intensive care and she was collecting them for her mother's death. In view of the fact that the money was not the subject of a search, that the criminal case, which had been violated, was unusable. The crime, then, of course, the money could not be removed during the search. Therefore, the Superior Council of Justice, having examined these circumstances, found no basis for the release of Smik Svetlana John from the position of judge for breaking an oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u184	You've already taken the floor, you said. Please. Why don't the committee take a look at this? Let's check again. If she was, in effect, not even the subject of the case, but the subject was another man, and she came from the familiar circumstances and explained here what the matter was. Let the committee reconsider all these details. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u185	None.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u186	Then we will not vote on that question. And you can prepare an additional argument if you need it. Please move on. An order for the release of judges?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u187	No, no.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u188	Yeah? Or the assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u189	3277-01. Fellow dignitaries, the committee reviewed the submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine’s election of Vasinczuk Mikol Pavlovich as judge of the local Bologna District Court of the city of Žitomir on an uninterrupted basis. The draft decision of the committee on the recommendation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect Vasinczuk Mikola Pavlovich to serve as judge of the local court was not untimely supported by the committee because he did not receive the support of the majority of the votes present at the committee. The corresponding draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine at number 3277-1 since March 6th this year is given to you. We ask the Supreme Council of Ukraine to decide. I mean, don't support this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u190	Sergey Vasilovich, what was the reason for the lack of support?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u191	Now, I'm sorry. Judge Vasilczuk Mikola Pavlovich was violated. And the indicators. With regard to the judge of the Bologna District Court of the city of Žitomir Vasilczyk Mikoli Vasilovitch, it is necessary to determine that several checks were carried out and that the Higher Council of Justice, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, and the Qualifying Commission of Judges of the Žitomir Court of Appeal. The case was considered invalid and the annulment of the decisions of the State Commission from the securities and market fund of Ukraine regarding the registration of information on the additional release of the Ukristok shares. In the course of the test, a qualified commission established that there were no grounds for misconduct against a disciplinary judge. The circumstances of the case were the subject of a review by the High Council of Justice, under which no violations had been established. But the committee divided the votes almost equally. And more votes were in favour of not recommending this judge to the election on an open-ended basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u192	Mikola Pavlovich is here. Please, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u193	Indeed, the honourable deputies, on the committee for the second time again, were removed from the question for the first time, since the issue of my involvement in disciplinary responsibility was not completed by the introduction, and the issue was brought to the attention of the High Council of Justice. The language did go, however, and I was accused by the party that was in charge of the circulation of Ukristok's shares, who did not live in Žitomir, which I set up during the trial, and handed over the defendant's sentence to the courts at the place of residence of the defendant. The parties, in particular the Ukrisbank administration, filed a complaint stating that I had committed a gross violation of the legislation in this case. However, these circumstances, according to Sergey Vasilovich, were considered at the level of the judges ’ commission in our area and the High Council of Justice, which found no basis for drawing me to responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u194	Any other business, no claim to you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u195	No strings, no other claims.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u196	So the point is that the judge has decided to change the jurisdiction of this case in relation to what the defendant lived on, let's say, in the area of jurisdiction of this court, that's what I understand. I'm asking the MPs to identify themselves on this matter. It's the judge's fate. I am voting for Vasinczuk Mikoli Ivanovich’s term as judge of the Bologna District Court of the city of Žitomir. Voting, please. [[13:34:58]] For 20 deputies. In this way the candidate, Mikola Pavlovich, is not supported. Thank you. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u197	Honorary colleagues, the Supreme Council's Justice Committee, discussed at its meeting on 14 March 2007, the submission of the Supreme Court of Ukraine's Chief Justice and the heads of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Court on the selection of judges on an open-ended basis, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decree 3277-2 of 14 March this year. The judges are also here in the guest bed. And the committee recommends that the judges be elected on an uninterrupted basis. The Court of Appeal of the Kyiv District of Drig Andrija Mikolaiovich The Court of Appeal of the district of Vilnius, Sergey Vitaliyovich The Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv district of Sharpov Olen Leonidivna. The local Cosatian District Court of the Winnitz district of Soroko Dino Viktorovna Local Nemiriv District Court of Winnitsk Alekseinka Vasil Mefodijovich; The local Kovelski District Court of Volinsk Olen Anatoliyevna. The local central-city district court of Makiyevka Donetsk district of Andreushina Lilia Anatoliyevna. The local Kuibyshew district court of Donetsk Yakoubenka Alexander Borisovich. The local Proletarian District Court of Donetsk Panas Natalija Leonidivna The local Novograd-Volinsky District Court of the Žitomir district of Kuzmenko Lubov Vasilovna. The local Ovrutsky District Court of the Žitomir district of Bilousenk Igor Volodymyrovich, Kondratuk Vladimir Ivanovich. The local Golovanov district court of Kirovograd district of Rudi Neonil Volodymyrovna. Local Znamyan Regional Court of Kirovograd District Assessment of Alexander Mikolaiovich Local Companiyev district court of Kirovograd district of Mummig Irina Mikolayevna The local Novgorodkova District Court of Kirovograd district of Račeluk Yuri Vasilovic. The local Lenin district court of Kirovgrad Chernish Vadim Anatoliyovich. Local.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u198	One minute, one minute. We'll take a break from Chernish. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u199	Local Baltic District Court of Odessa Mesakovsky Irina Mikolayevna The local Bilgorod-Dnistrov City Court of Odessa, Shemetenko Ludmila Petrovna. Local Dubrovnik District Court of the province of Sidorenko Zou Sergiyevna Ms. Moscow District Court of Kharkiv Shorty Igor Petrovich Ms. Kanov’s Regional Court of Cherkas, Semenjak, Alexander Mikolaiovich. Military Court of the Hmelnick garrison of Matochnuk Dmitr Borisovich The local Winnick District Administrative Court of Fedchuk Vitali Volodymirovich. The local Donetsk District Administrative Court of Shalova Victoria Anatoliyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u200	Shaleyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u201	The local Gitomir District Administrative Court of Hauk Sergio Mikolaiovich. Local Poltava District Administrative Court Sokolenek Fedorovich Local Commercial Court of Lviv County of Kostya Tetjana Sergiyevna
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u202	Just a minute. On the Bone's Question? I know, we're making a note, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u203	And Habib Maria Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u204	Habib Maria Ivanovna, she's present, I see. In addition to two: Cherniša Vadim Anatoliyovich and Kostov Tetjana Sergijivni, on which there will be a separate consideration of their perspective in the position of judges elected on an open-ended basis, I have reason to believe that if there is no objection from the deputies to put to the vote the question of the election of judges after the list that just sounded Sergey Vasilovich with that clarification of the name that I made. Yes. I'm voting on this proposal. Order 3272-2. But there's a vote. [[13:40:38]] For – 232 Decision taken. Regarding Chernish Vadim Anatoliyovich Mikola Ilchi Sadov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u205	Honorable Judges and Colleagues! You all know very well the situation in the media regarding the election of the city’s head, and before that, you know 100 constituencies in Kirovograd. And Vassil Vasilovich, and I address you. This is exactly what the courts do in the city of Kirovograd when a deputy is beaten there, when veterans are beaten, when those present are like Sharov, Hilchenko, and others. So I'm talking to Vadim Anatoliovich. Now, Vadim Anatoliyovich, you were there when you took Nikulina out of the race and you didn't prove it by law, and you had to investigate the TVC, the materials, and call them, even in the middle of the night. So how do you appreciate this situation, although in general I appreciate your work positively?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u206	Vadim Anatoliyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u207	The court used every measure to invite TVC representatives to a court hearing and to require a copy of the ruling by which the TVC cancelled the registration of the candidate for the position of the city’s head, Nikulina. However, TVC officials grossly ignored the court’s demands to appear at a court hearing and closed all the doors. The representatives of the court stood for about an hour, inviting TVC representatives, and no one opened the door for them. Several times during the night, representatives of the court came to the TV station to invite us. Niculin was given time to six o’clock in the morning of the legislative election when his application for the annulment of the TVC decision could be considered. However, TVC representatives did not appear in court. All of this was filed and a separate ruling was handed down by the court, which was sent to the Attorney General of Ukraine to resolve the issue of involving officials of the territorial electoral commission in criminal responsibility. Nor were the TVC's representatives executed the court's ruling on providing the evidence the court demanded to give the defendant's decision. Since the court was unable to see the defendant’s decision, and according to the law, the time of the case was limited to six o’clock in the morning of the election, at five o’clock fifty - eight minutes the court was forced to refuse to deal with it, since the defendant’s decision had not been investigated, there was no possibility in court to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u208	Vadim Anatoliyovich, maybe I'm not here professionally asking a question, but if you saw that a temporary or territorial election committee was specifically ignoring the court's decision and the need to come to the trial of this matter and you saw it because it was clearly demonstrated that you couldn't make a decision without one of the parties' presence, analyzing just the objective materials that you had on your hands?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u209	We didn't have any material except for Nicole's statement. We had absolutely nothing. We could have made a decision without TVC representatives, but we couldn't even know the number of the decision we had to cancel, we didn't know anything. We didn't have the most incriminating document, and that's why we did.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u210	Obviously, that's not the way it's supposed to be. The Party of the Regions' cappuk wants to make a statement on this point. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u211	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! I just got off the phone with the President of the Court of Appeal, Teleganenko Vladimir Ivanovich. Judge Chernish is only on the positive side and provided that, when elected on an indefinite basis, he is scheduled to be transferred to the Court of Appeal. And I believe that, on one such case alone, it is not possible to judge the professionality of this judge, because the situation with the elections in Kirovograd is quite confused and we will be able to deal with this for a long time. And the judge just blames this case, I don't think it's worth it. There are mistakes in everyone and there are no mistakes. There was simply no subject to consideration of the matter. Thank you. I'd like everyone's support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u212	Well, we all see that there is no formal basis for any comment about this judge. And on the other hand, each one comes out of the political situation that happens in the elections, and when artificial constructions like we saw there, then it's hard for the judge here, but clearly the logic here goes a little beyond the function of the court. Sergey Anatolyovich Matviyenkov wants to make a statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u213	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Given the above situation and given that we have heard our colleague's opinion today, the faction has decided not to vote in favour of the judge. But in order not to take a wrong decision against a particular person, we invite the Committee to examine the situation, the circumstances of the case, its personal responsibility, so to speak, and to put a person to the vote for the next period when we vote, in a week or two.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u214	Eugene Vasilovich, please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u215	Dear comrades, well, when we say judges, we are interested, we go out into the area, we are reporting. Even more so, these elections in Kirovograd were all brewing in the Lenin region. But with regard to the applicants for Chernish's claim, I have such information that he is a very principled judge. He had nothing to do with this demagogue, the election courts. He's in criminal proceedings. On the other hand, he was said to be a judge who held a principled position, not even giving in when pressured by the District President of the Court to conduct a line. So I think this man will be responsible for what he didn't do. I think we need to support him. This is a normal candidate, a young man, a prospective man, and most importantly, in a complex district court such as Leninsky, it is that Pechersky is in Kiev, he is in Leninsky, and he takes the principled position. I think we just need to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u216	Eugene Vasilovich, you'd better speak up. In our courts, the judges are not pressured by the judges. Please keep in mind. But in this case, this is what we're talking about. If the faction doesn't vote, that's 30 people, then we'll ruin the judge's biography. There is a suggestion: A week from now, to return to this question, and since it has all the positive qualities, we will vote in favour of it. Yeah? That's what Mikola Ilyssa supports. I ask you not to insist on voting. Okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u217	Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u218	We're clear. Let's move on. Kostev Tetjana Sergiyevna. Jaroslav Mikhailovich Kenzior expressed doubts about this candidate. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u219	Dear fellow national MPs, first of all, I would like to thank Vasil Vasily Vasilovich Onopenka for his public position. I think this statement will certainly warn many judges. Last night, unfortunately, I missed the meeting of the committee of Sergio Vasilovich. I've got in my hands, I've brought from Lviv a whole folder of documents that testify to Judge Kostov's involvement in the great land affair. It was the decision of Judge Kostov that gave Lviv’s plots 32 hectares [32 ha] of forest to the first category. You know, Alexander Alexanderovich, the Brukhovite Forest. And that decision was then canceled, but the Lviv City Council is still struggling to save these Lviv lungs. I mean, I'm asking you to do better. Well, worst case scenario. I think it's best to postpone the hearing and recheck these documents that I brought or simply not vote for this judge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u220	Well, the offer is quite clear. But, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Also Jaroslav Mikhailovich, by the way, notes that Suhi has a different opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u221	Dear colleagues, I'm Mr. Kostov Tetjana Sergiyevna, although I'm from another district, but I've had to ask her for protection on the property rights of the people. I don't see where she is. It's a little bit of a stretch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u222	She's standing over there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u223	A miniature woman, and I don't believe in the validity of this complaint that the judge is handing out the woods. I'm sorry, the judge isn't giving away the woods. I would not like to have the Supreme Council of Ukraine turn us into an arena where personal accounts are collected. Maybe there's something else that Mr. Kendiser didn't say, so let him know right now if he has anything to say. I'm proposing a candidature for the Tetjana Sergiyevne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u224	Dear Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I ask you not to argue here, but to decide the question of the judge. Now he's talking about, by the way, a point on a particular case, Tetjana Sergiyevna Kostov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u225	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, Reverend Alexander Alexanderovich! Judge Kostov did not make a decision to disembark land from a 32 - hectare forest fund. There is no such decision of the Lviv Economic Court under the signature of Judge Kostov. There is a decision on the incentive to act, i.e. to implement the decision of the village council, the Gribovecki Rural Council on the conclusion of a sales contract. All of these. This decision is supported by all the normative documents, all the acts, all the decisions that are in the case file. That is, there is no decision on how to deforest land from the first category forest fund. It was, all the documents that confirm it were submitted yesterday to the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u226	There were no other comments before your work? Take it easy. Vasil Stepanovich Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u227	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been a lawyer for over a decade, and I know the Lviv County Economic Court very well. Indeed, there are many complaints about his work and the judges. But I didn't hear any complaints from Judge Kostov. On the contrary, a judge is referred to as a principle that is just and objectively suited to making decisions. And I think we should support the committee's proposal to select it on an untimely basis today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u228	Taras Cranvill also from Lviv, he'll say more precisely.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I know this judge too. And I can argue that not once have there been a number of judges who have had complaints against her. And on the subject that I'm talking about, I don't have any data that she had any relation to her at all. In Lviv, there are a number of judges who have to deal with the question of their competence, there are a number of judges who have been openly involved, regardless of their political position, both on the one hand and on the other. But in this case, I think the situation is premeditated. And I'm asking the MPs to back her up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u230	May I put it to a vote? I'm putting to the vote the candidature of the Tetjana Sergiyevna. Please. [[13:53:13]] For 244 Decision taken. [[Applause]] I want to recommend Jaroslav Mikhailovich. You give it a go. If it turns out that she really is to blame, then there are other ways to get her out of work. But if there are no other comments, we have no reason not to. Please, Sergey Vasilovich, move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u231	After considering, at its meeting on 14 March 2007, the appointment of the Supreme Court for the term of office of Koval Petr Juriovich. The appeal of the Ukrainian National Deputies Petrov, Kaltsev, the replies of the qualified commissions, the judges, the general courts of the Zaporozhye Appeals District and the Council of Judges of the General Local Courts and the Court of Appeal of Zaporozhye Region, having heard the judge's explanation, the committee unanimously decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the election of Peter Yuriovich Koval as Judge on an indefinite basis. You have 3277-3.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u232	In a nutshell, why?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u233	It's just... it's... it's... So it was installed on the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u234	Please, Babourin has the floor. Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u235	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. You know when they come to the committee, I didn't know, honestly, that Kowal was being considered yesterday. I'd have come up with arguments on my part, too. Everything I was told was passed on to me, most importantly, that Koval was deciding on the entire property complex of the company Ritm. This decision has been appealed, the decision has passed the cassation and the Supreme Court has agreed to Koval's decision. And that's the main thing. There was no raiding there. The raid was on the side that seized the property of the Ritam stock campaign three years ago. That's why I would ask, San Sanic, on the committee, not to make a decision like that. Let's find out, I'm ready to participate too, maybe I'll be taught something there and come back to that question at the next meeting or when the committee will be ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u236	Sanchi! Allow me. In one case, Koval made a definition of the arrest of large shares from six archers. Don't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u237	I ask, let's not be afraid of each other by the extent of the abuses that are occurring in Ukraine, because then we will discover a great mystery. But the point is, more faithfully, it's man's destiny, let's take a closer look at it, there's a proposal not to deal with the issue today, not to vote, but to find out what was the real reason for taking a positive or negative view of this petitioner's election on an untimely basis. As you are looking at, let us not vote, for we may be able to put it in place, clearly that the voices will split and then return to it there is no need. Can I move it? Let's pass on that question, okay. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u238	The Justice Committee at its meeting on March 5, 2007, considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges of appeals and local courts in connection with the application for resignation. In their statements, the judges indicated that they had written them voluntarily. The Justice Committee supported the above-mentioned application of the High Council of Justice and passed a corresponding draft decree under Registration No. 3278. Since March 6, this year. Dear colleagues, is there a need to read the draft decree as a whole?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u239	You name the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u240	Names? Topoleva Vladimir Kostinović, Kiesiel Mikola Alexanderovich, Hodakovsky Tetjan Ivanovna, John Danilovich, Trofimenka Mikhail Volodymirovich, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u241	Ladies and gentlemen, these are the judges of the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region, the Cherkas region, the District Court of the Žitomir Region, the District Court of Poltavsk and the District Court of the Chernigiv Region for their release on the basis of statements they have written voluntarily. And in fact, we're just doing a formal procedure. I'm voting on the draft Decree 3278 on the release of judges. There's a vote coming. [[13:58:32]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. Let us wish the successful work, good health, and justice to the chosen judges, always guided by the principles of justice and legality in their decisions. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the delay in this matter, and the minister and other responsible workers here are present, I continue to have the right granted to me by the Rules for 15 minutes of our meeting. We are considering the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Cooperation in Science and Technology. Minister Stanislav Mikolaiovich Nikolayenko will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u242	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, the government is issuing a draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Turkey on Cooperation in Science and Technology, developed in accordance with article 9 of the International Contracts Act. This document is on your hands. In addition, the contract adds an extension number 1 that regulates the protection of intellectual property. I want to say that this treaty was signed in Ankara on June 7, 2005. And it envisions scientific and technical cooperation with our colleagues in Turkey. We have about 60, Ukraine with other countries, 60, that's going to be the third. I'd like to say that this is a completely mutually beneficial thing. The agreement does not need to change existing legislation and adopt new legislation. The adoption of this law will help stabilise the partnership between Ukraine and the Turkish Republic in the field of science and technology. I'd like to accept the bill as a whole, Your Honor, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u243	Are there any questions to Stanislav Mikolaiovich? Matvienkova has a question. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u244	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Stanislav Nikolajevic, we have considered this ratification at the faction meeting. We have no comments on ratification. But we'd like to hear your explanation on the following point. To date, students in Lviv are asking questions about the transition of the Bachelor, Master, to these exams that are taking place. And this situation, which is to some extent disturbing not only the students of Lviv, but also, I think, all students of Ukraine are also voters. I'd like to get the situation straight, but what's going on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u245	Alexander Alexanderovich, if you please, I'm a minute and a half, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u246	Please give 2 minutes to explain, although this is not a subject of ratification, but nevertheless this has been the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u247	Your Honor, thank you to the faction for asking the question. First of all, I'd like to tell the people's deputies the following. The Ministry of Education and Science did not initiate any new initiatives during the introductory campaign this year. We took an active base, article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which states that higher education is obtained on a competitive basis, article 4 of the Higher Education Act. The Higher Education Act was adopted in 2002 and introduced, i.e. these changes that you said were introduced in 2002 in January. We are simply implementing these two articles and the corresponding decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was adopted in 1990. What are we talking about? We have two levels of higher education today: Bachelor and Master. Well, a master and a specialist is equal. But I'm saying in a new way: Bachelor and Master. When you enter the baccalaureate, you take the preliminary exams. Four years, you got your bachelor's degree. You're going to the master, and you're also going to the intro trials. Why? Because today with your bachelor's degree, you can come from Donetsk to Lviv and Lviv to Kiev. And it's going to be 100 places, and it's going to be 200 people at the university, but the number of Bachelors and the number of Bachelors is going to be the same. We haven't reduced the number of students. Sergey Anatolyovich, what are you talking about? This could be what it's about. What is budgeted by a poor family is also a budgeter – a person who learns on a contract basis, also from a poor family, and there is one in a wealthy family, and in a budget form he learns on threes. And whoever pays the money, the contractor says, “I finished and received my bachelor’s degree in one way or another, why can’t I claim that my master’s degree is on a budgetary basis?” The rules of acceptance are perfectly consistent with the law and the Constitution. Now, Alexandre Alexandrovich, there's a student talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u248	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u249	Now we're talking to student self-government leaders, including Lviv, Kharkiv, Kiev, and we're talking to them. Yesterday during a live broadcast in Lviv, where the director of the department of our Ministry of Bolubash was present, the rectors, the students' leaders agreed on the subject, no questions asked. We are not reducing our citizens' right to higher education, but we are working as the whole of Europe is, this is a European order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u250	All right, let's do it. I am voting on the Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between Ukraine and Turkey. Please. The vote is coming, Valery Grigorovitch. [[14:04:30]] For 216 Have we got a vote yet? Who's in charge of getting back to the vote, please? Take your time, Alexander Mikolayovich, take your seats for now. [[14:05:00]] For 242 I'm voting on the draft Ratification Act, please. [[14:05:20]] For 245 Decision taken. We still have 10 minutes. But I think we can do it in five minutes. Here's the thing: our MP is a reporter for this issue in the hospital. [[draft Decision on agreeing on the location of the sites for the construction of the school]] We need to get him to a hospital right now. So let's give Bevanek Valerija Fedorovich the opportunity to report this question and we will vote on it. Please go to the rostrum. Bevenko Valeriy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u251	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed to accommodate the location of two objects. First. The location of the cemetery of the Vatutin Production Department of the Vatutin City Council Housing and Utilities in 6 hectares of particularly valuable land within the territory of the Jurkow village council of the Zvenigrad district of Cherkas region for continuous use. And the second object. The construction site of the Sednivian Public Education School is 1-3 degrees Fahrenheit [3.9 ha] of the Education Department of the Chernigiv District State Administration, including 2.25 hectares of particularly valuable land within the territory of the Sednivian Village Council of the Chernigiv district in permanent use. Ukraine’s Department of Ministers’s full-scale materials meet the requirements of Ukraine’s current land legislation. In accordance with the requirements of articles 150 and 151 of the Land Code, Ukraine agrees with the relevant executive authorities and local self-government authorities, landowners and land users of environmental and health-epidemiological bodies, city buildings, architectures and cultural heritage protections, the materials provided have undergone a state-owned expertise. Information about the agreement of these objects is given to you. All the materials, as well as the original documents from the mentioned issue, are on the committee. If you want, each of you can get to know them at a convenient time. In view of the above, the committee recommends that the draft decree be adopted in the first reading and in general as a determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u252	Any questions to the reporter? None. Are there any who would like to make a statement on this subject? I just want to emphasize to the radio audience that all decisions made by the Church District Administration, the District Council, the Zvenigrad Council and so on are all that. That is, there is a need for objectively decommissioning of such lands. So I put to the vote a draft Supreme Council regulation, registration number 3207, on agreeing on the location of the objects. There's a vote coming. Please. For. [[2:08:32]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. The break is announced by 16 hours. Huh?Oh, my God! I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I don't have a break. A report to the reckoning committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u253	Protocol number two meetings of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It was heard that there were secret ballots for appointment as members of the High Council of Justice. The ballot papers for the secret ballot on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice included the nominations: Bondica Valerija Anatoliyovich, Zavalnjak Volodymira Vasilovich, Koleschenka Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Labunska Angelika Viktorovna. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established. Number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized as being 450. Number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots: 207. Number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote: 207. According to part two of article 113 of the Constitution of Ukraine, articles of the Eighth Law of Ukraine “On the Higher Council of Justice” and chapter seven of article 39 of the Sixth Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided: To recognize elections that did not take place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m0.u254	I think the information is clear. It's for faction leaders, first of all. Please examine who is a member of the MP and why he is not voting. And make the conclusions, I think that's the right thing to do. That's the first one. And second of all, I'm calling it a 16-hour break. I insist that everyone be on the spot, as very important issues are being addressed, including the Law on Changes to the Budget Act.
