ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u1	I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[16:04:00]] There are 419 deputies registered in the hall. The evening session shall be declared open. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007 is proposed for consideration. [[on the increase in living minimum and minimum wage]] We've got it. Wait a minute, wait a minute. We have two bills to consider. The twenty-first came, the author of by Mikola Siwulski, and the report is proposed to him and to the deputy head of the President's Secretariat. And the second project is from the Cabinet of Ministers. Ah, three bills, sorry, there. From the Cabinet of Ministers. In this order, let's listen to these projects. Please welcome Mikola Ivanovich to the rostrum. Sivuli Mikola Ivanovich, I give you my word. Let's give each project 10 minutes for the report. The author? Julia Timoshenko? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u2	Good afternoon. Julia Timoshenko, BUT. Dear friends. Today we are discussing with you a key issue that concerns 17 requirements that have been made by two opposition factions in their statement. And that's actually one of the requirements that was the reason that our two factions left the room is to raise salaries and pensions. Therefore, the substantial increase in wages and pensions, not the throwing of a bone that makes the government look like it, but does not really add a penny to people. In order to raise wages and pensions, we have introduced a bill on changes and additions to the current budget, which foresees an increase in social standards and which will result in an increase in pensions and salaries for all pensioners and workers. Why did we submit these changes to the budget law, and why do we require an increase in wages and pensions? Because unfortunately, all of the government's actions in most people's parliament have led to a disruption of the master plan indicator, at which all the budget figures were formed. This indicator is the level of inflation. Inflation was projected at 8.7 percent. But the policies that are being implemented have led to inflation, which is now real, much and much higher. I think every person today knows that tariffs are up twice or three times on utilities. That today, virtually all the products that people consume are high prices. As a result, today's wages and pensions established by the government through the 2007 Budget Act are absolutely unacceptable. And if the planned annual inflation rate was 8.7 percent, the expected annual inflation rate is at least 15 percent. And today all the dynamics talk about it. And if we compare the increase in consumer price indices in July 2006 to December 2006, we've already gotten a 3.05 increase. This is almost three times the inflation rate in just these months. Industrial producer price index nearly doubled over the same period. But no one asked about raising pensions and wages today. Our two opposition forces, now united into the only opposition democratic power in Parliament, have imposed their constant demands on the ruling majority and the government, nevertheless, to review pensions and wages. And today, under the pressure of opposition, they have made some concessions to people and have proposed changes and additions that absolutely do not ensure a real increase in pensions and wages. And that's why we're not going to support the government bill, and we're insisting that a bill of two opposition forces be considered and supported right now. What do we propose to do in this bill? Taking into account the tremendous increase in inflation that this government has allowed, we propose to increase, first, the subsistence minimum per person per month from April 1 to 534, from October 1 to 550. For those of the main social and demographic groups: for children under 6 years of age, we propose, from April 1st, a standard of living of 471, from October 1st to 486; for children between 6 and 18 years of age from April 1st to 605, from October 1st to 624; for working persons of April 1st to 569, from October 1st to 587, from April 1st to 412, from October 1st to 425. Moreover, it is more important to increase the minimum wage. I, my dear friends, would like to stop at the fact that our political power is proposing an increase in social spending without increasing the budget deficit altogether. And that also distinguishes our bill from the government bill. Our bill envisions the income portion of the budget that is formulated in such a way that it leaves the budget deficit at the same level as it is today, no significant changes. On what basis do we propose to increase wages and pensions? First of all, how much money does it take in the budget to make that increase possible? To increase the minimum pension, it takes 4 billion 200 million dollars. To increase the minimum wage, it's 5 billion 262 million. To fill the budget, we need a 10 billion 862 million. What do we propose to cover? First, when there's an increase in wages, there's an increase in income from income taxes on individuals -- that's a billion 588 million; additional income from the Pension Fund at the expense of an increase in wages. And the reduction in housing subsidies due to the increase in minimum wage and pensions is 350 million. Budgeting revenue for macro indicators is an increase in gross domestic product at the expense of inflation of an additional 9 billion 600 million. Shortening of unwarranted expenditure, which is included in the budget, is 200 million. And all the extra sources are: 15 billion, 501 million. I want to emphasize that our bill forms both a sufficient income part and an adequate spending portion. This is important. On the other hand, the bill proposed by the government increases the budget deficit to 3.1 percent. This is unacceptable for the country. This virtually destabilizes the entire financial system of Ukraine. And we're also proposing a third increase in social standards compared to a government bill, one third more. The increase in pensions and salaries offered by the government covers only the level of inflation, only the increase in planned inflation, and no amount of real money adds to pensioners, nor does it add to working people. And this says that the bill that the government is proposing is a complete lie, a lie, a lie to people, and that means that people get nothing on the way out. With these rising prices for everything that people consume, these tiny little coins are just a non-professional approach to the government. On the other hand, the budget today is shadowed by the illegal return of the tax on added value exclusively to its exporters, through the purchase of goods on tenders much higher than the market prices, and this means that the undercutting of the budget today does virtually not allow the government to actually increase wages and pensions, but makes only fictitious manipulations of figures and nothing else. And that's why today we're proposing to vote in favour of a bill of democratic forces that actually raise wages and pensions and not support a government bill that gives nothing to people and destroys the country's financial system by increasing deficits.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u3	Julius Volodymyrically, questions may be. I made a mistake, an invalidity at the beginning, and I haven't announced that today's issue is being considered on the basis of the Supreme Council's New Year's decree adopted during the 2007 budget approval, not under the pressure of some political force. This is the Supreme Council's ruling, and I'm paying attention to the fact that, in the first quarter, the budget is being reviewed and the corresponding changes are being made. The other one. If you have a question for the reporter, please sign up for these questions. Using what I don't have on my microphone, my colleague, Julia Volodymyrna, you call a very broad meaning of the phrase, you use a colossal increase in inflation. You wouldn't be able to say the number and the reason for that number because it's very important?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u4	It was planned in the budget when the budget was formed, 8.7 percent. Today, according to the projections that we have and that are being made by world financial organizations, you will be up to 15 percent, which, with optimistic estimates today, can reach inflation rates. And that means that all the calculations that were made in budgeting do not provide normal social standards at all. And that means that the increase today, as the government is offering, by 17 percent of pensions and wages, is practically zero, it's practically just to cover inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u5	Right. I remembered the numbers. Why do I say that? Because there are three projects and they're obviously all going to be the subject of analysis here and we're going to choose the choice. And that's why the numbers were 8.7 and 15. Please, we've got a lot of deputies. But since three projects, I propose this: each reporter will make his own information, answer his questions, then the profile committee will come to a conclusion, then discuss and make a decision. In view of the fact that we are able to consider 10 minutes of questions and answers for all equally. I would ask you not to be offended that someone did not take advantage of the opportunity to ask questions and get an answer. Babourin, please, from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u6	Baburin, the Communist faction. Julia Vladimirovna, come on, we're not afraid, we're afraid, we're always going, the pirates by intimidation of the coalition. Well, first of all, Alexander Alexandrovich on Head's rights was finally ahead of you, and I wanted to ask you that you did come here and force you to consider the issue, not you, but the order on 22 December. You tell all our voters it's not in the press, first. Secondly, the budget changes have not yet been adopted, you're already afraid of inflation, you're scaring the crisis. Well, we remember the meat crisis, the sugar crisis, and the gas crisis, they were already. So I'd like to hear from you specifically, well, the filling you said in part, is that enough with your budget proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u7	I'll start with a crisis. I just want to remind you that our meat crisis is 20 bracelets per meat, and your rest is 35 bracelets per meat. With regard to the petrol crisis, our gas crisis is three bracelets for gasoline, and your gas crisis, your tranquillity for gasoline. I want to say again, you can check 3 bracelets. And your peace is 5 bucks! And that's where our so-called crises and your so-called peace are based today. And your so-called peace is the tariffs that destroyed everyone in Ukraine financially today. Even a small and medium-sized business. And that's why I think it's completely incompetent to throw things like this on your part today, because what you're doing today, people can appreciate. And the next thing, under whose pressure, is today, unfortunately, if there was no pressure from two democratic factions, you would forget at all that there was a people in Ukraine. And what you have today, besides sharing money, is a budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u8	Yavorowski. I'm asking you to do it without sound signals. We don't bring whistles and other things here. Please. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u9	Dear Mrs. Julia, the fact that most people today speak so tenderly and regularly the word “fear” seems very normal to me, means they are afraid. In Ukrainian life -- both economic and political -- the concept of tender came into play very firmly. You used it the same way. I just want to remind people today that at the end of the year, because of this so-called tender, in fact, no Ukrainian film has been filmed. Because in order to make a film, it has the same rules as buying oats or wheat. We have to make tenders at every stage. And given that the tenders are led by the majority and one by Raisa Bogatirov and the other by Alexander Tkachenko, I remind you, no Ukrainian book has actually been purchased, because these tenders are being extended to the end of the year, and then this money is going somewhere. I have a question for you, how can you help me answer the question for someone who was in charge of the government? Where does this money go?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u10	Well, first of all. As far as tenders are concerned, I would just like to draw the attention of the Supreme Council right now, that everything that is being purchased by tenders is being taken from regional budgets today, from delegated expenditure and collected today in the central authorities. And today these tenders have become an asset because these tenders really don't go through, there are solid companies that sell goods today to the budget and budget needs much lower quality and at much higher prices than today's market forms. In addition, we have hundreds of appeals from entrepreneurs who today are complaining about a so-called, tendering committee headed by Raisa Bogatirov, that they first have not broken through these tenders, and secondly, this tender committee has to pay between 15 and 30 percent of the value of contracts. And where this money goes, we'll certainly check with you. And I actually think that we need to create a special commission of inquiry in Parliament and see how.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u11	Please, Bondarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u12	I would like to thank Mrs. Julia for demonstrating the real protection of Ukrainian people's interests and to convey the word to Mr. Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u13	That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u14	Dear colleagues, I do not ask Mr. Frost to stop his comments unregulatory, because his relationship with the regulations he demonstrated during the vote, a closer consideration of the matter of the Foreign Minister. So this is an unsuspecting conversation. On the other hand, I want to say that the Supreme Council decision on budgetary issues after the end of the quarter, it's not working yet, because the quarter, first, is not over. Maybe who doesn't know when it'll be over, please give me a hand with Alexander Alexander the Ice. And lastly, to you, Julia Volodymyrna, the question. What senseless action on budget deficits could lead to the adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers' law? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u15	Well, first of all, the deficit that has now been proposed in this budget is, in our calculations, 3.1%, and this is the highest deficit that has been budgeted in the last period. What can be the result? This could be the result, for example, of an unpredicted increase in internal or external debt, which is something that is absolutely clear. The second thing that could happen is an unpredicted rise in inflation, and that could also be the result. And I don't think today any civilized budget of the European state is reaching these levels of deficits. And that says simply, first of all, about the deep non-professionalism of the government. And if Mr. Azarov says it's going to be a deficit covered by cash balances, it's saying once again that he doesn't have a special financial education because the deficit is not calculated by coverage, it's the difference between income and expenditure. I want you to get past the cure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u16	Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u17	Dear Julia Volodymyrna! I'm glad you're such a bright politician, you're a brilliant speaker, but I'm sorry that instead of introducing your bill, you're criticizing that bill that you haven't considered. Secondly, you'll excuse me, but unfortunately, I've heard more from you than any of the people who have actually prepared the bill, which is presented by the government. I'm sorry, but why don't you take into account that, in implementing the Supreme Council's ruling, it is today that the government has prepared those changes to the State Budget, which, precisely for the purpose of increasing social standards, the government, taking into account the resources of the national economy, has not increased the amount of borrowing not by a penny. Please tell me where you're taking data that doesn't match any statistics in Ukraine. Tell me, is someone from another country giving you information about this shameful state of the economy of Ukraine? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u18	I'll tell you what Mr. Kalashnikov from the Party of the Regions asked. That's the guy who beat up a reporter from the S.T.B. And I actually think that answering a question for such a person in this room is a disgrace and a humiliation for any MP. First, learn to act like a citizen of Ukraine, then learn about the economy and finance, and then ask questions about the budget. And that set of phrases that you just called, I can't even qualify as a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u19	I remind you of the rule of law, which provides for the answer to essentially questions. He asked absolutely in essence questions, and I am obliged, in accordance with the Rules, to prompt the answers in essence. Please, Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u20	Please pass the word to John Sidorovich Bokom.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u21	Dear Julia Volodymyr. You have very wisely asked the question of a significant increase in wages and pensions. As you may well recall, on September 13, 2005, President Yushchenko, in an interview with Associated Press, said that ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko, in abuse of office, had written off her debt to the budget of eight billion dollars. My words, the President, I remind you, haven't been out of line since then. So you have a real opportunity, now united with the President with whom you spent 80 minutes at the airport today, under a code of honor not to embarrass him, to return your debt to the budget. That would be a solid sum to raise pensions and wages. [[B in m in s a l in]] If you were to repay that debt, we wouldn't be talking about a deficit at all. Will you ever or will you not repay that debt to the State?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u22	I would like to point out to the MPs that Mr. Boki read his question carefully from the sheet. And I think, in principle, for the Socialist Party, it's already the norm when the Party of the Regions is writing to you, or the ones that Rudzikowski brings to Yanukovich, which he has to read against Gryzenek. Or those for Boki, who reads from a sheet for that. I am pleased to see your false eyes before the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u23	Right. Ivan Sidorovich, please. Do not interfere with the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u24	I think it's really unpleasant to admit that you've become "six" in Yanukovich. Uncomfortable.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u25	I'm asking you, after all, to answer essentially. It's not about six billion, it's about eight billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u26	And this is essentially the question, Alexander Alexandrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u27	About eight billion, not six. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u28	You give an answer essentially where this 350 million dollars you got.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u29	Please, Arsentius Petrovich Yacenuk. In the end, the damsel will be given the opportunity to reply to all those concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u30	The Honorable Head of the Supreme Council! Dear National Deputies! Allow me to present for your consideration a draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2007 introduced by the President of Ukraine. I would like to briefly remind you of the history of how this law came into existence and, in fact, what the President’s requirements were for the bill, including the bill presented by the Ukrainian government. When signing the Law on the State Budget 2006 the main requirement of the President of Ukraine for the signing of such a law was the adoption of a decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on mandatory review of the level of social standards, namely the minimum level of living and minimum wage not later than the first quarter of the current year. This act was mandatory for the Cabinet of Ministers, and that is why the issue of raising social standards is being considered in the Ukrainian Parliament today. With a view to accelerating the receipt of Ukrainian pensioners and low-income citizens and the corresponding categories of social standards, the President, on his own initiative, passed an appropriate bill and made appropriate calculations. In doing so, the first draft of the State Budget Act proposed to change the government on its own, but after the Ukrainian government had passed its own bill, the President also listed all the budgetary indicators and invited them to consider the relevant Parliament. As far as the indicators are concerned. I wouldn't want to stop at them because there's a whole range of them about sizes and age categories, and generally, the categories of citizens who will get more pensions and minimum wage, and other social pay, and you have a bill. I would like to stop at the fact that there is a difference between a government bill and a presidential bill. First of all, the President of Ukraine pointed out in 2006 that there are adequate sources for increasing social standards and that such social standards should be raised. And you recall the discussion with the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection about the reliability or inadequacy of such calculations. It turned out that the presidential calculations were correct. With regard to sources, the President of Ukraine proposes to increase the additional portion, which in principle corresponds to the incomes offered by the Ukrainian government. However, the significant difference between the Presidential and Government Bill is that, due to an increase in the State -wide pay fund, there is a corresponding increase in the income tax on citizens, which directly affects inter-budget transfers to local budgets. The increase in social standards also provokes additional arrivals to the Pension Fund. Thus, there is no need to finance the pension fund at the expense of the general fund of the state budget of Ukraine. That's actually the difference between two bills. So the Presidential Bill does not foresee an increase in the government budget deficit. In the process of drafting the bill, including the Ukrainian government, we have seen today that the government has changed its position. And it can be noted that the costs that the government will pay will not be incurred at the expense of external borrowing. However, the methodological issue of the state budget deficit remains. Thus, the President of Ukraine proposes to vote to the people's deputies in favour of a bill tabled by the President, which foresees an increase in social standards and does not foresee an increase in the government budget deficit in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u31	Questions to Arsenius Petrovich. Please sign up. So is 10 minutes. Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u32	The Honourable Reporter will certainly vote in favour of both the joint project and the draft law of the President. I'm worried about something else. Yeah, we're increasing social standards, minimum pensions, minimum wages, minimum wage, minimum wage, but today in Ukraine, wages, including Donetskin, are rapidly increasing. Sailors don't get paid for four, six months. What about it? What can we do for all of us?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u33	As far as debt is concerned. Regrettably, such debt increases, including in the public sector of the Ukrainian economy, in other words, in enterprises that are directly subordinated to the relevant officials. There are appropriate examples. And the last selector, which was held by the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, pointed to the urgent need to work primarily with ministries to pay off debts in the public sector of the economy. The President of Ukraine signed a corresponding letter to the government, requiring that the issue of debt repayment be considered. As far as I know, there's a proper Prime Minister's mandate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u34	Yuchenko. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u35	Alexander Stoyan, Party of Regions. Mr. Yatsenuk, of course we would have voted in favour of the President's law if the social situation of the people hadn't deteriorated. I call three digits, comment. The Cabinet of Ministers provides a minimum of 532 bracelets for living, and the Presidential Law provides 529. The Minister's office provides a living minimum of $568, and the President submits 564 bracelets. The Cabinet of Ministers is applying to invalids, i.e. the 411th anniversary pension, and the President is applying 409. The minimum wage is 460 in the government and 460 in the President's. So what's the president bringing in? Let's vote for the president's law and lower the social protection that the government is offering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u36	Let me remind myself again. The president first proposed raising social standards when the Ukrainian State Budget Act was adopted in 2006. So we had to vote when the year started, and in fact, Ukrainian pensioners and other socially-unprotected population groups don't get a corresponding 1 January supplement. And compensation, which will take place over the quarter, is also an important issue. With regard to presidential proposals, government proposals arose only after the President passed his bill. And it's very positive here. I'll show you by date. And there's a very positive element of political competition that's played hand in hand, and the government is 2 more bracelets than the President has proposed appropriate social standards. However, if asked by the Ministry of Finance, I think they'd be more supportive of the Presidential Bill than they are of their own.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u37	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u38	Please pass the word to Julia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u39	Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u40	I wanted to ask you a very concise and, in my opinion, an important question to make a decision. You can call a highly professional person a real deficit in the government budget and compare it to what the president is proposing in the form of a bill? And I fully support that the President is maintaining the level of deficit in his proposals that exist today. And the government is proposing to raise this deficit to 3.1 percent. Please tell me, do you support these figures, and how do you feel about this level of hidden deficit?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u41	Thank you, Julia Volodymyr, for a very carefully considered question. The deficit situation is: first, the financing of additional expenditure is carried out at the expense of the ERDF, the so-called Single Treasury Account. This is formally the income that was earned in 2006. However, a valid budget code provides that the so - called transitional remains are added to the government budget deficit. As far as the concept of “deficit” is concerned. It's made up of two blocks: the first block is a deficit on the account of transitional surpluses, the second block is a deficit that can be formed on the basis of additional borrowings. And here we don't regret the government being able to increase additional borrowing, so external borrowing is not going to happen to finance social spending. But the ECR on the transition remains is a deficit, it's an accounting account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u42	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u43	Thank you. Please pass the word to Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u44	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Well, sadly, the issue of human welfare is being politicized today. And you don't have to talk about united opposition, it's just embarrassing, because you haven't even been able to give a joint bill to the Supreme Council of Ukraine today. And that's the main thing, and that's your price. You, when Dry brought you the facts that really tell you that you need to support a government bill, look, please, we're about a month ahead of raising social standards for a month, rather than what the President of Ukraine is proposing. And just to be fair, we have to agree with the government bill, we have to concentrate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u45	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u46	Should I answer? I just, frankly, don't know how to answer this, because once again I want to remind you of the story as it was. And it was a little different than you just said. The requirement to sign the budget was to raise social standards. The President signed the budget only after the Supreme Council passed the relevant decision. Now the government has added two bracelets than the President and that's very good. Okay. It's an element of political competition. However, 2 bracelets is not an element that can be used in debates in the room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u47	Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u48	Thank you very much. Well, I wouldn't advise a professional like you to juggle two bracelets, because two bracelets multiplied by millions of people are not two bracelets at all, but millions of bracelets. That's the first one. And the second. Please tell me what is necessary, if there is already an active Supreme Council ruling, and the President, as a guarantor of the Constitution, laws and legal order in Ukraine, knows what it is necessary to make by the end of the 1st quarter, even if by condition, as you yourself have said, the President. The President's signing of the budget was an increase in standards that were needed in front of his father in hell, so to speak, to climb and bring it to the end of the 1st quarter. Is that a bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u49	Well, there's got to be a first way to figure out who the father is and where the hell he is. As for necessity, the head of state makes his own decisions regarding the introduction of appropriate bills. Once again, I would like to point out that the Presidential Bill, including encouraging other participants in the budgetary process to make appropriate changes to raise social standards. And what's going on here is 2 bracelets. Again, I have to point out that the presidential requirements were to increase social standards from the first issue of 2007. So in a quarter, Ukrainian pensioners didn't get the money, and someone has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u50	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u51	Arseny Petrovich. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I believe that, indeed, today is not a very good time to discuss the issue of who is first. And unfortunately, Julia Vladimirovna provoked this issue by her statement. But I would like you to explain the next question. You may not have spelled out exactly, but the transitional balances in the treasury accounts are a source of coverage of the deficit, not a deficit. And unfortunately, you'll see the transcript, you said wrong. You said the balances in those accounts were a deficit. We have the right to use these balances, which are actually budget revenues. Therefore, today the press is wrong to say that the Government is allegedly increasing the budget deficit. Please confirm my right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u52	You've quoted very clearly the phrase that the balances in a single treasury account, and more specifically the transitional balances, are the source of deficit coverage. So you have to first form a deficit to cover it at the expense of the leftovers. So there's a dilemma between an egg and a chicken. You have to have a deficit, and the source is really the transitional surplus in a single treasury account. But I'm still saying that it's not an external loan, that is, it's not an extension of the debt hole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u53	Thank you, Arsen Petrovich. Have a seat, please. From the Cabinet of Ministers, Mikola Janovich Azarov, First Vice-Prime Minister, is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u54	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. When the budget was approved, the government guaranteed that, in a favourable economic situation, it would raise social standards to a greater extent than they were budgeted. There are several alternative bills. More details will be provided by the head of the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makenko. I'm just going to point out that with the external appeal of their authors, there are not fully defined real sources of coverage for projected expenditures. There are many obvious calculations, assumptions, populism, open populism. I don't see anything surprising about this kind of error, because the budget is a very complicated document, both in terms of resource sources and in terms of spending. The budget, as well as the changes to it, should consist of a government body – the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine. Such requirements are contained in the Constitution of Ukraine, the Budget Code and the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of 21 articles. We have the right experts, and most of all we will do it, it's our responsibility. There's always a need to raise social security, and it's very well taken by the population. The main thing is that they're not populist based on the real gains of the economy, the increased productivity of the work. And what did we have in 2005-2006? Social pay went up as a result of a decrease in wage in the general income of the population, this is what you see on the slide. The policies of the previous governments were deliberately aimed at leveling the role of wages. We believe that the State must create all the conditions for productive work and decent pay. Unlike our opponents, we never made empty promises. A few words about myths that were spread over the huge increase in budget revenues from the shadow economy. In fact, it was different, Timoshenko’s government, Yehanurova’s short-term shadow drive, and by the first half of 2006, the company’s profits had decreased by 7.1 percent. By the end of 2006, we had levelled the situation -- the increase was 16.5 percent. You can see on the slide that the output of the shadow was accompanied by the rise of industrial production. In seven months, we have positive economic changes. Systemic problems in the economic sectors are being neutralized. First, it's been able to increase GDP by 6 times. In two months of 2007, we have a GDP growth rate of 8.6 percent. In addition, the productivity of Ukraine’s domestic and world markets has increased accordingly. Secondly, there is a process of reducing labour productivity that compensates for the pressure of the energy component on the cost of production. The government managed to ensure an unprecedented fact when we have less than 1 percent inflation during the winter of three months in a row: 0.9 percent in December, 0.5 percent in January, 0.6 percent in February. The current account balance has been restored. However, because of political tension, we prefer moderately optimistic orientations. These economic trends have been the basis of the government’s change initiative for the 2007 budget. The proposals proposed by the government today are based on a careful, balanced assessment of economic development and the real potential of the budget and their financial provision. We propose to bring the deadlines for implementation closer and increase the minimum wage and subsistence minimum by comparison with the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 22, 2006. In particular, a minimum wage of 420 dollars is proposed from April 1, rather than May 1, as stipulated in the decree. The next review is also proposed to approach one month, from July 1st to August 1st, increasing it from 430 bracelets to 440 bracelets. The minimum wage increase to 460 is proposed to be implemented two months earlier, from October 1st to December 1. Thus, the ratio of living to minimum working income and minimum wage increases. Despite social rhetoric and loud statements, Timoshenko’s government left this figure at only 73 percent. The government of Yehanurov managed to raise the figure to 75 percent in almost a year’s time. In three months we've improved this ratio to 79, and since first October 2007 it's going to be 81 percent. By 2009, the task was to compare these indicators. In order to implement such standards, the amount of expenditure paid by budget staff for 2007 has been increased by 2.3 billion dollars, compared with the approved budget by one and a half times, to 2005 levels. I'd like to draw the attention of radio and television audiences that the government's proposal will allow the average monthly salary of a surgeon doctor to be increased by 169 bracelets, a paramedic to 180 bracelets, a therapist to 147 bracelets. By the end of the year, the school teacher will have a total of 167 gravel more, running the kindergarten – 179 gravel, the school director – for 219 gravel. We've found an opportunity to increase the living minimum for all major social demographic groups. On the slide you have to see this. Thus, during 2007, the average living minimum will be increased by 60 dollars. I want to emphasize that the rate of increase in living at a minimum of 12.7 percent is significantly ahead of inflation. For 2006, for example, the government of Yehanurov planned an increase of 11.6 percent in subsistence, but we had inflation of 11.6 percent. The increase in living minimum for 2005, I recall, was planned by the end of 2004, and the government of Timoshenko was not being reviewed at all. Scholarships and scholarships have increased and have helped students, students, graduate students, doctorates, and academic institutions. In view of the increase in the living minimum of 749 million dollars, local budgets have been increased to help families with children, low-income families, disabled children, disabled children, and temporary state aid to children, compared with 2005 we increase these payments by 3.3 times. In 2007, the government proposes to make a minimum retirement by age a minimum of one percent for those who have lost their jobs. Thus, the minimum pension increase at the age of 2007 will be 13 percent. The average pension growth rate will be even higher and will be 17 percent in 2007. To finance such measures, the Ukrainian Pension Fund will receive an additional 2 billion dollars from the government budget in 2007. There are opinions that call into question the need for such payments, and we strongly disagree. The work of previous governments was aimed at laundering the resources of the Pension Fund, freezing the possibilities of a second and third stages of pension reform. We are restoring our work on the second level of the pension system. Making changes to the 2007 budget will increase pensions for the most vulnerable population categories. Local budgets are also expected to allocate 2 billion 779 million dollars, including to employees of budget institutions in connection with an increase in the minimum wage of 1 billion 372 million dollars. The 2007 budget changes take into account additional expenditure to raise the level of military funding and eliminate the interdisciplinary imbalances in the amount of 891 million dollars. I need another minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u55	Please finish the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u56	An increase in the level of military cash provision under the contract of a military and a junior high-ranking force of flags, swordsmen, and a junior officer, who is currently the least paid in other military categories. This will allow in 2007 to increase the military's cash provision by one person in all power structures compared to the year 2006 to 280 dollars. In turn, the government will demand that the forces of unreserved use of these funds be met. The total financial provision for the most urgent expenditure of the general budget is 7.5 billion. This appropriation is intended What resources may be involved in financing the identified directions? We've calculated the possibility of increasing the income portion of the budget by 4.6 billion, including the total fund by 4.5 billion. Another additional source to increase social payments to the population is part of the government budget from a single treasury account of about 3 billion dollars. I would like to emphasize that the funds indicated are not emissionary, nor do they increase the public debt and service costs. Thus, raising social standards will be financed exclusively by internal reserves and no additional debt burden will be created for future generations. According to previous estimates, the government budget deficit before GDP is refined will be 2.9 percent that meet international standards. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the document in the first reading as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u57	The question is to Nikola Janovich? Sign up. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u58	Yuri Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”. Mikola Janovich, everyone in charge, knows the story of three envelopes. And what you started opening these envelopes means is that the moment you start making these envelopes is approaching. But I wanted to ask you how the minister of finance would explain your strange arithmetic. You declare a colossal growth in gross domestic product while at the same time increasing your salary, which is enough for a bottle of coffee. Could this be the same arithmetic that, when gas prices rise from $95 to $130 and tariffs increase by 2, 3 or more, gives us one percent of inflation? So maybe your arithmetic from the Ministry of Finance should be thrown out and taken to the streets by people who know how to count?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u59	I honestly didn't hear the question, but I'll try to answer it. The economic growth rate of 8.6 per cent is largely due, firstly, to the correction of the systemic imbalances in the economy that have been made in the economy over the past half-year. Secondly, of course, it must be made clear that there is a very low basis for comparison, i.e. a failure in the economy in 2006. In January, we had an absolute decline in industrial output of minus 2 per cent. The same applies to 2005. We had a decline in the economy and, therefore, naturally, when the basis for comparison is taken for months, it is somewhat adorned by statistics. Therefore, I am quite frankly saying that we come from the very cautious assessments and risks that exist in our economy. If the GDP growth rate is 8.6 per cent, we increase pensions by, for example, 17 per cent. It's an absolutely optimal soot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u60	I see the MP is pleased with the answer. Sulkowski, please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u61	Dear Mikola Janović, Sulkovsky, Equinox. We are very grateful, members of the agrarian committee and Ukrainian peasants, personally to you as the first vice-premier for the fact that for the first time in years of independence the 2007 budget was nearly five to six times increased to support the village. Literally during the days the Prime Minister had been meeting with the inhabitants of the Plainsland, and the villagers were asking one thing. If possible, Mikolo Janovich, these funds, which are intended to support the village to the fourth quarter, have not been supported completely in 2006 and 2005 by all governments, will be transferred from the fourth quarter, if possible, to the first and third quarters, because the village is in a very difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u62	Thank you. I can also tell all the listeners that the Government has listed 485 million bracelets to the Ministry of Agrarian Policy this week. At the same rate, we will continue to finance the costs of the agrarian complex. And I took advantage of what I had left, literally, for a few seconds, to tell the Keykow People's Deputy about the envelopes. You know what? I would never want to compare the work of our governments with that of our predecessors, but given the amount of dirt that comes out on us, we are forced, forced, stressed, told the truth, what we have received and what we will do. Once again, we have come with very different intentions. The Prime Minister said at the first meeting of the Government: not a word about the work of previous governments. And, unfortunately, we kept our mouths shut.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u63	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u64	Dear Mikolo Janovich! You know, it's very hard to compare peaches and steamboats. Same with your numbers. Different periods, different positions, and you try to manipulate them to somehow improve your perception of your information. This is the first position. Second position. You know, this morning, on the initiative of the anti-crisis coalition, there was an attempt to vote on the foreign minister. But then suddenly, they ran, blocked the rostrum, and moved, violating the Rules of Procedure. One of the leaders of your faction claimed that Russia's interests were not taken into account. I understand that this is very simple: we called from the Kremlin and asked them to put the question aside. In this regard, will there not be a budget for someone to call from the Kremlin and you will reintroduce some adjustments to the budget deficit? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u65	Alexander Valentinović, I am ashamed of this level of public budget discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u66	Well, I'll just remind you that the proposal was the first from the representative of Yulia Timoshenko to postpone the vote, please take a look. I'll call you your last name. I'll call you by the end. Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u67	Dear Nikolai Janovich! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. Thank you so much for your professionalism and many years of service to your country. Please pass the word to Mikhail Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u68	Chechetov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u69	Dear Nikolai Janović, unlike the former Government of Timoshenko, who, in seven months of her rule, brought Ukraine’s economy almost to bankruptcy and personally President Yushchenko literally withdrew from the chair of Prime Minister Mrs. Timoshenko, saving the country from complete collapse, perhaps even crossed over after the signing of the resignation order! The government of Janukovic is demonstrating dynamism, predictability, transparency of work, the economy is growing at a high rate, yes! There is a accumulated financial resource that converts it into an increase in social standards. I have a question: To date the first two months of inflation 1.1 is a record in the history of Ukraine!Oh, my God! If you extrapolate by the end of the year you get 6.6 or 7.5 As smarts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u70	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u71	The distinguished people's MP, in general, if we are to benefit our country, will have to be less than the rostrum of the Supreme Council to tell our people about the frenzied inflation expected this year. Here I come from what we must, first of all, both from the Government and from the people's deputies, make absolutely true estimates of inflation. 7.5 per cent if we secure this year, this will be a record low inflation for Ukraine. This is a very difficult task. One part of this process is the inflation of expectation. So, unfortunately, the opposition is not constructive, but the opposition is destructive, destructive. She's in danger all over the country, but she'll be fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u72	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u73	Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Nikolai Janović, I am personally concerned about this competition by who prefers the poor people at the expense of the people themselves. This is the race of those who first flee and kiss the people in the place where they will show them. This happiness for the people is very often caused by grief and disappointment for the people themselves. It's a specific question. Please describe the increase in the income portion of the budget and the allocation of additional funds to raise social standards as to whether financial resources, i.e. the proposed changes, are fully provided. And the second question our voters are asking us. In 2005, people received no compensation for lost savings, to the great regret of not a penny of money. Please tell me in 2007 whether you are compensating for the money that was not received in 2005 and the money that was not received in 2006, because at the end of 2005 the money came into the accounts on 15 December but was not used.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u74	Thank you for asking. But what I'm saying is that this is where they said that we pushed and the government immediately made a change. [[I won't call my name.]] I'll tell you what. We'd never have gone to those shifts if the economy hadn't given us a chance to make those shifts. That is why I am answering your question with clarity and clarity. All these changes in financial resources have been fully achieved. But here's what I want to say. Unfortunately, the level of debate on the part of the opposition is completely unconstructive. What is an increase in social spending, I specifically pointed out on the slide, is in principle a decrease in the profitability of enterprises, it's in principle a decrease in investment, so all of these processes you've asked the right question. If we are to think about the development of our country, they must be balanced. And we must not listen to the adventurous, totally populist slogans here, we must only be guided by the possibility of our economy. We have now made a balanced budget. If the economy continues to develop in this way, we will once again rise to social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makenko, head of the committee, has the floor. All of you will be entitled to a replication after speaking by procedure. 12 minutes, three bills are being analyzed. Please. Calm
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u76	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, reverend Mikola Janovich, national MPs, members of the government! Today, you have before you three bills to amend the Ukrainian Law on the 2007 State Budget, proposed by the President of Ukraine, the Government and the national deputy of Sivulski. Their main objective is to raise social standards, the level and quality of life of citizens, their well-being and create conditions for harmonious human development. I would like to remind you that when the 2007 budget was adopted, an agreement was reached between the Supreme Council, the government, the President. And it's anchored in paragraph three of the Final Orders, according to which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine was tasked during the first quarter of this year to analyse the size of the subsistence minimum and the state of the financial security of the military, the persons in charge and the military warehouse and, if necessary, to submit proposals to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for changes to this law. As you can see, the arrangements are in place, and that's the main thing. We're all starting together, regardless of the beliefs or the color of the flags, working for the Ukrainian people, converting the results of economic work into raising social standards. In other words, in the second half of the past and early this year, economic growth, especially industrial production, is reflected in the ability to set new, higher social standards. Is there an impeccable project? Probably not. First. As a citizen, as a national MP, of course, I would like the minimum wage to go up far, not by 20 and not by 40 dollars, but by much more. But we have to get out of the real possibilities of the economy, and they're still limited. Yes, real GDP in January 2007 increased by 9.3 percent compared to January 2006, industrial output by 15.8 percent, agriculture by almost 7 percent, transportation by 14 percent, construction by 26. Good paces have also been maintained in February. And in early March. But we all remember that this was the same dynamic, and in 2003-2004, six to seven months was enough to destroy it. This is because instead of economic calculations, political relevance, social pay is being multiplied in the event that the real situation is not taken into account. We have no right to repeat this mistake. We should not forget that this year there are two other circumstances that cannot be taken into account. The first is Ukraine's potential introduction to the World Trade Organization. The theoretical model and calculations show that we seem to have secured ourselves from the surprises associated with the discovery of our economy for almost 1560 countries around the world. But how it will actually show the first 2-3 months of work in the World Trade Organization system. Second, these are energy prices, which, as it's not a secret, are at the cost of any product. For an energy - dependent country like Ukraine, it is a very important factor. So we kind of have a fixed price agreement by 2011, but 1.5 years ago, we also had $50 per thousand meters of cubic gas by 2009. This is not all that depends on our state. So a cautious, gradual rise in social parameters, proposed by both the government and the President and the people's deputies, in our view, is justified in today's conditions. Secondly, as national deputies, we usually wanted all social standards to be raised not by three measures, but immediately. Not because it will cause a great deal of trouble for the financial, social, and social services of the state, both in the center and in places related to the recalculation of salaries, pensions, and other social benefits. We want these payments to be least affected by inflationary factors, which unfortunately are inevitable. Now, in more detail on the specificities of the bills, including their common features and differences, regarding the indicators approved by the law for 2007, it is proposed to increase the minimum wage on average per year in the government bill by 4.2%, in the presidential original version of the bill by 1.8%, in the Sivulian Parliamentary Bill by 7.6%. Increase the total cost of living from April 1st and October 1st in government, respectively, by 4.8% and 4.3%, in the Presidential version of the bill by 4.7%, in the Sivulian MP's bill by 6.6% and 7.8%. It should be noted that a bill introduced by the President is in place. In its original state, it's exactly the same as the offer made by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, the basic social parameters of the Cabinet of Ministers bill take fully into account the proposals made in the Presidential Bill, the Supreme Council's regulation on the list of living minimums and the size of minimum wage in 2007 take part in the proposals of the Sivulian People's Deputy Bill. I would like to draw your attention to the issue of budget balance in the legislative initiatives. With regard to the Bill of Deputy Sivullski, whose third intervention was also filed on 13 March, the proposals for budgetary balance are not now provided directly, i.e. by amending Article 1 and the Appendices to the Law on State Budget for 2007 on the income of expenditure and inter-budgetary relations, which are an indispensable attribute to changing the size of the subsistence minimum and the minimum wage. Thus, this bill does not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Budget Code, and so today it is being supported. In the second edition of the Presidential Draft, the issue of balance is better solved than in the previous version. The main difference between the new presidential bill and the government bill is the sources of additional expenditure. The President of Ukraine plans to reduce by 2.5 billion dollars the pension grant to the Pension Fund by 221 million dollars under various pension schemes, to reduce the additional grant to local budgets to offset the financial security by 221 million dollars, and not to provide subsidies to local budgets for the development of regional infrastructure of 230 million dollars. The government went the other way and, let's say, a more promising way. Instead of compromising pension schemes or regional needs, he decided to cover an additional expenditure of 7.5 billion dollars for an increase in the income of the State Budget General Fund of 4.5 billion dollars. Of these, a $1.2 billion income tax, a $3.2 billion tax on added value of goods imported into Ukraine. This increase in income is based on the excess of actual revenue compared to what was expected last year to improve the growth of individual macro indicators that exceeded the forecast for the current year. In addition, it is proposed that additional budget expenditure be allocated to some of the remaining funds for the start of the budget period, amounting to almost three billion dollars, which were generated by overcoming planned revenues from the State budget last year. These January-February statistics give us good reason to believe that these assumptions are balanced, realistic and reasoned. So the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to increase the government budget deficit, not by increasing government debt, according to individual national deputies, but through resources and opportunities for the economy and the free balance of budgetary resources. In conclusion, the government bill is balanced and meets the requirements of the Budget Code. There is another issue that is highlighted by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council in its conclusions, both in the Presidential Bill and in the Bill of the People's Deputy of Sivullski. According to the part of the first article of the fourth Ukrainian Law on Living Minimum, the minimum of living is previously established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine after scientific and civic expertise has been carried out, a set of products, food, a set of non-food goods and a set of services and approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, the minimum wage should be established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine after the submission of the Government, taking into account the proposals made through the negotiations of professional trade unions. On the basis of these principles, it is the Cabinet of Ministers who should submit proposals to the Supreme Council for changes in the size of the minimum wage, the minimum wage. During the discussion of the drafts at our committee meeting, a discussion arose on the treatment of the definitions of budget deficits and “fund balances”. In order to ensure the adoption and signature of the law by the President of Ukraine, a compromise decision was found regarding the drafting of paragraph 7 of the first law not to change the approved border deficit size, but to supplement the relevant rule regarding the Government's mandate to further target the financing of the general fund of the State budget of Ukraine in 2007 to part of the State budget's free balance of two billion 985 million dollars. In the light of the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions, having considered the draft amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2007 under registration numbers 3068, 3068-1 and 3282, has adopted a decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, as a whole, a bill under registration number 3282, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account such a change: paragraph 7 of paragraph 1 of the chapter on article one to be put in such an editorial. To set the country's government budget deficit for 2007 at 15 billion 715 million 729 thousand dollars, including the country's general budget deficit of 14 billion 412 million 501 thousand dollars. And the country's special government budget deficit of 1 billion 303 million 228 thousand dollars. Allowing the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to further finance Ukraine's general budget in 2007 part of the government budget's free balance of two billion 985 million, 271 thousand dollars, in accordance with Appendix 2 of the Act. The adoption of such a bill and its taking effect will allow the government, other executive authorities and local self-government, to adopt appropriate legislation at the same time to improve pay and recalculation of pensions, and help others to really feel better about their family budgets as of 1 April of this year. I propose to adopt this bill as a whole and ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u77	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. Sivulian.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u78	Dear Vladimir Volodymyrovich, first of all, I would like to point out that the consideration of the bill at the committee meeting was contrary to what is now being done on the Supreme Council. That is, you've put the government up front and voted only for the government, without even considering the president's bill and my bill. That's the first remark. I mean, I think you broke the rules, you were supposed to be the first to consider my bill there. And it's only after that that that we approach others, that's the first. Second, we found out at a committee meeting that there are absolutely all sources to ensure that the minimum wage threshold that my bill envisions is rising. Why didn't you agree to this because there are resources? Why are you refusing to give the people a higher standard of living, if such possibilities are real, it was proved at the meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u79	Thank you, Your Honor, Mikola Ivanovich. Your offer is correct, and it really is of interest to all Ukrainian citizens. In addition to the proposal, you have to show a resource from where and don't forget that the budget is actually balanced all the time, otherwise we're close to the crisis. As for the bills that were discussed on the committee, you were present at the committee meeting yourself, there was a representative of the President who seemed to be Mr. Yatsenuk's deputy. Everyone had the opportunity to speak on their own drafts. And you've seen that I've done everything as chairman of the committee to give you the opportunity to report my bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u80	Please, don't disturb me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u81	He also had the opportunity to speak with a representative of the President. You asked questions about the government bill. As a result, a government bill was passed, and you know it and were present.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u82	Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u83	“Regions of Ukraine”, Korsakov. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I have two questions for you. How much will the size of the salaries, the tariff rates of the budget staff be increased if the bill is adopted? And the second question. How will an increase in the government’s budget minimum affect citizens’ income? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u84	Thank you for asking. How much will the size of the office salary be increased? If the Supreme Council supports the Cabinet of Ministers bill, and this bill will be signed by the President, after the adoption of this bill, the Cabinet of Ministers will have to amend the legislation on changes in the size of the official salaries of the budget staff, as well as the size of the financial security of the military and the primary and military staff. The government's proposed increase in budget staff's salaries will increase by 4.8 per cent from 1 April to 5 per cent, from 1 July to 4.8 per cent, and from 1 October to 4.5 per cent, and in total from December 20, 15 per cent. As far as your second question is concerned, how will the minimum income offered by the government affect citizens' income? During 2007.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u86	During 2007, the living minimum increased by 60 dollars, from 492 dollars by 1 January to 532 dollars by 1 October 2007. As a result of the increase in the minimum pension at the age of 1 April 2007, it will be compared. In fact, since October 1, 415 dollars will be increased by a relatively approved 2007 State budget from April 1, to December 23, from October 1, to December 20.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u87	Insomnia.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u88	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u89	Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u90	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Volodymyr Volodymyrovich! To ask questions, I was moved by the last words by Mikola Janović Azarov. He said: “We have raised and will raise the next stage.” Let's be honest, let's face it, this is exactly what I want to ask you, what the cost was, was when the President promised the draft budget for 2007. And if it weren't for that veto, there wouldn't be a corresponding decree on December 22. And I want to ask you, who will be responsible for the fact that the entire budget district, with opportunities and availability of funds, our citizens did not get higher wages, that we left this entire budget district alone with such social standards when the tariffs went up by 200 to 300 percent for utilities? I'm asking you to answer who was dishonest at the time, whether the government or maybe the committee or.?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u91	Thank you, dear colleague Lilia Grigorovitch, for asking. Not only do members of the budget committee participate in the committee’s work, they accept all desirable members of the national committee. I invite you to all the meetings that will take place on the Committee on Budgets. The budget's open, no one's hiding it. As a result of economic activity, we made a commitment to review social standards after the first quarter, and we did so. And let us work together, and together, let us finally vote on this document that unites us. I'm so glad you're back in the hall. Let's vote in favour, and let the President sign this law, and we'll go back to the second quarter, look at the real state of the economy, and increase the money for our people. After all, they pay you and pay me, we get it from our people. Let's give them a chance to live properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u92	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u93	I'd like you to hand over to the deputy Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u94	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u95	Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich. A fast, socialist faction. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, you have felt today that the discussion is not only about figures, facts, but also about the methodology, the methodology of budgeting. For example, I don't remember, please tell me where the Head of State can recommend some of his budget proposals to the EU country at all? So he says, let's raise our pensions, change our incomes and so on. But we have this tradition. So I'd like to ask you, how do you get out of this position? How did you work out what method when coming from two organs? What method is there for you to get out of the situation and actually calculate one or the other proposal for optimal numbers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u96	Thank you for asking, Vitaly Yakovich. Well, it's hard for me to say about all the countries of the world, let's talk about Ukraine. The Budget Committee is governed by the Constitution of Ukraine, the Budget Code, the laws of Ukraine. The Government is particularly involved in the procedure under the Law on Government. We are taking part in the drafting of this bill, all of us -- and the President, the President's Secretariat, the government, the people's deputies. Basically, it's normal. It's normal for us to finally take real steps for our citizens. The Committee on Budgets is ready to consider dozens of bills that will be presented with only one goal, so that they will be aimed at improving the lives of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u97	It's a Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u98	I want to give the word to the SivuI People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u99	Mikola Ivanovich, please. Sivulian.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u100	Thank you. Vladimir Volodymyrovich, I'm sorry, but many of the people's deputies here will confirm those words that I've been saying that the real sources of the rise in social standards that we're proposing and that by one third more than the government have been named and specifically defined. That's it. More than 3 billion, which was achieved in 2006, is inflationary money, which must be returned to the population because inflation parameters in 2006 were higher than those laid when social standards were set. And people just have to get back what they took from them. And plus we figured out what that is. Because of low GDP rates of about 40 billion, there are 12 billion budget expenditures in the shade. And in the first two months, we have plus 1.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u101	Thank you, Reverend Mikola Ivanovich, for asking. It seems more political to me. I liked that you said the word “we took away people”. The government and the anti-crisis coalition are doing everything we can to get this money back to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u102	Have a seat, please. I have an offer to make from each faction. You'll get the word for it, yes. From each faction, a representative will speak to determine the faction’s position on supporting a bill. This would be objectively and expeditiously, for everything else would only dilute the discussion, give nothing in essence. No objections? Then I'll put it to a vote. Instead of voting, I propose that you register with the factions in the discussion of this document. These documents. Kowal signed up from Our Ukraine. Kirilenko will be, yes? Jerbrowsky? Please, Zebrevski is speaking from the “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u103	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, we should welcome the initiative of three legislators who eventually decided to raise the social standards of life of the people of Ukraine. However, I would like to stress and return as a retrospective in December-month, when the faction “Our Ukraine” and the President of Ukraine stressed that there is a financial resource in the 2007 budget already to raise social standards of life from January 1st. However, the government has categorically denied that there is no such resource and that there may be some probability that the first quarter will occur. Only under the pressure of the President’s renewed veto did the Antichrist Coalition’s Budget Law make a decision that obliges the government to raise these social standards. We will remember the February month when Prime Minister Janukovic stated that there is no basis for raising the minimum wage and minimum pension. The president had to submit a bill to raise the minimum wage, minimum pension, and minimum wage. I would like to point out that only three billion dollars, which have been a surplus since 2006, and three billion dollars to the Pension Fund, which will necessarily come from raising the minimum wage and the minimum pension, plus 1.2 billion income tax, have fully provided social living standards since January 1st. However, the government wanted to hide the money. Thanks to the President, the faction “Our Ukraine” and all opposition failed. And today we are voting on all three bills that raise these social standards. I'd like to say, is this all the money that's in the budget? Dear friends, no. Because those relationships, about raising a huge gross domestic product, industrial production is not just that money. In fact, from the very beginning, the government set up unfaithful macroindicators. As a constant, as the beginning of the calculation, he took a low gross domestic product in 2006, that's 494 billion dollars. In fact, we got 40 billion dollars of gross domestic product more in 2006. Thus, even with the rise of this, minimum wage, minimum pension, the government has not yet calculated how at least 12 billion dollars are to go to social costs and to raise a village that is currently under-funded by a colleague from the country and where money needs to be directed. I think the faction of "Our Ukraine" will clearly vote, I don't think, but I know the bill of the Sivules and the Presidential Bill. I call on everyone to vote for Ukraine, for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u104	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich. Bondarchuk is acting as a socialist faction instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Our faction and the Committee on Social Policy and Labour are supported by a majority of their composition by a government bill. Of course, as a socialist and as the head of the social committee, I would also like to have stronger growth and wages and other social benefits. But we are realistic, and we realize that there are certain inertial laws, there are certain laws of the economy that you can't jump right away and that you can't ignore. Because besides having social benefits, we have to keep in mind the economy, especially agriculture, industry, housing and utilities, and so on. Clearly, too. That populism is a tool in the hands of opposition always, in all times and in all nations. So we need to be sober about this and not be dramatic about the situation. But when you sometimes listen to the demagogies of former government factors that are currently in opposition, you might want to ask Ostap Bender's words addressed to Father Fedor: “Why opium for the people?” Because, indeed, we should come out of what are the same standards that should keep us in this. We will certainly vote in favour of the government bill, because we have formed a coalition, formed a government, and we are responsible for the government's activities, we are in one of its boats. And I think it's better in this situation to have a bruise in your hand than a crane in the sky to which some unbelievably thinking opposition representatives call us. The only request we have is to the government and the faction and the committee that we will vote on in the first reading, and in general, if we take into account our demands for the addition of 330 million dollars that were not returned last year for the return of lost savings, are further included for these purposes. Our voters need to know that these figures were not implemented in 2004-2005. Last year, only a government that was formed on August 5th, August 14th, approved the order for the return of unvalued savings, because no money had been returned to the people before, and you should know that. So this 330 million shouldn't go to waste, they should go to the 600 million already budgeted. This will show the reality of our intentions and the reality of what we can increase and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u106	It's written by the faction of the Samofal Region Party. Who will act? A miller? Melnik, please, Peter Vasilovich. Or Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u107	Peter Melnik, faction of the Party of Regions, Kiev First of all, I want to do the miners' job, and then in Appendix Three of the Government Bill: the Ministry of Fuel and Energy of Ukraine under the special development expenditure fund, with a budget proposal for the reduction of loans for the construction of power grids, nuclear hydrochargers and other batteries for power plants, highways, mountain and rural electricity lines, and before the creation of solid fuel for heat power plants -- minus 300 million bracelets. According to the Ministry of Coal Industry of Ukraine, under the special budget spending fund, government support for coal-based enterprises, including companies producing storm coal to partially cover costs of cost-effectiveness of production, including the provision of guarantee liabilities after the return of budget loans – plus 300 million dollars that do not distort the overall budget balance. And now, you know, we all remember the words: happiness is when you're understood. And today, there's this discussion about a more important document, the changes to our budget, and it's going on with this discussion, both the opposition, and the President, and the government. And I'm sure we're going to find that golden middle here, and we're going to really make the decision that our Ukrainian people are going to make. And there is no need for opposition to be criticized for making its proposals on December 1st. She's also the opposition to hurry up and get ahead of herself. Nor should the government be criticized for being able to overcome the 2006 figures and have three billion dollars in cash for the social needs of our Ukrainian unprotected population. I think it's very right and wise when the President proposed his social standards, and the government not only carried out the President's mandate, but did it at all. And by the size of the minimum wage, and by the minimum of living, and by the help, appropriate increases in scholarships for our students, our fellow students, our fellow students, our doctors there, and by the additional grants, subsidies to our regions, including 230, to the development of our regions, our military personnel, 500 million, including our Ministry of Defence. I think this will be a beautiful demonstration of the political will of Parliament today, of its wisdom. And the President will listen and sign this budget because he is our President. It's not just the president of one party, it's our Ukrainian president. And I want to assure you that the faction of the Party of Regions will necessarily support the project proposed by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u108	Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich has a word for Borschevsky Simonenko from a Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u109	Dear colleague! The distinguished voters will vote in favour of the agreed proposal made by the Government and supported by the anti-crisis coalition. But without repeating the comments and suggestions already made by my colleagues here, I also wanted to share with you what issues we should work on and what needs to be taken into account. And I would like to reiterate to the voters that we are firmly in line with our commitments and, in particular, what was laid down in the Supreme Council's decision of 22 December last year to raise the minimum wage and subsistence minimum in the first quarter of this year. We, the Communist faction, also declare that we are not satisfied with the ratio of income and expenditure in each family. There is something that requires very serious, radical decisions and practical action on the part of both the coalition and the entire Supreme Council and Government. We have repeatedly suggested what needs to be done and I will not repeat myself, but I believe that today we need to seriously consider that we need to start a real economy of joining the STO and be more determined to protect the domestic producer, especially representatives of small and medium-sized businesses. There is a need to focus very seriously on the technical and technological restocking of industrial enterprises, especially the reprocessing industry. It seems to me that it is important to think very seriously about how to support a particular village and, above all, to return the funds to peasants for credit rates, some 320 million bracelets that have unfortunately not been paid last year, as well as to consider the leasing programme, which we should be very serious about in general. But I would like to speak to my colleagues and voters today and to say that before we speak, let us all look at some saints together. If we are talking about our problems today, we must conclude that unfortunately, one of the problems faced by the anti-crisis coalition is delayed inflation, which is what I would like to discuss. To talk about the fact that the previous Orange Government had not given any thought to increasing the money supply eight times, exceeding the real GDP. What did this result in? As a result, by tightly attaching a bracelet to the dollar, they had in fact destroyed the economic outlook. Speaking of meat crises, I would like to remind the Government, which has decided to allow the importation of rotten, deep-frozen meat and has decided to convert it into sausage. And sugar, about the raw materials that were imported and for whom they were imported, about closing the oil road to Ukraine and stopping the three refineries, about organizing the gas crisis, about an external trade deficit of 1.8 billion. I would also like to warn you, dear fellows, that today Ukraine is saving what opened the door.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u110	Thank you. Sivuliski Mikola Ivanovich, please, from the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u111	Dear colleagues, dear voters, today we can be sure of the correctness of the expression, whatever it is, it is always about money. Today, in fact, this rostrum divides money, divides GDP, and a very interesting situation arises. On the one hand, the government is reporting on record GDP growth rates, refusing to support the bill, our bill, which I am introducing to the leader of our faction Timoshenko from this rostrum, which envisions an increase of one third more social standards than the government proposes. What's the paradox? Everything is explained very simply, the gross domestic product at its end is passed on to the three categories in the tax budget, to the hired workers, and to the capitalists. Here's what we're talking about today from this rostrum. And the government is offering to raise the average wage by just 18 percent, more loyal to 17.9, to fill the budget by 19. And how much does their profit go up? They'll do the rest. So I propose to support our bill, which is designed to compensate people for what was taken from them as a result of the outbreak of inflation in 2006 in the second half and early this year. The next moment is very important. It was a pleasure to hear that inflation needs to be evaluated, that is, the price increase of what buys the population is true. And, Mikola Janovich, put order in your household. I can't understand how, since December in Kiev, 3.5 times the tariffs on utilities have risen, not in December or January, does Derzkomstat show their growth. He showed it only in March, one and a half times. What's going on? In fact, we hide the truth from people. We can't control the real economy if we don't have the right information. Now, stop pushing on Princeton, you'll never get 7.5 percent, because inflation in the manufacturing sector is more than 14, it's the plan, and it's the sum of two months, it's 16 months. How can you keep it if it has to go from the manufacturing sector to the consumer sector? These digital manipulations? So people buy, pay for, and buy real goods at higher prices. Give them back what you take from them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u112	As we agreed, the factions took place. For the final word, each author. Get a word for it and, of course, you will. I want everyone to remember, the last thing they remember, you know. Julia Volodymyrna, closing word. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u113	Julia Timoshenko, BUT. Dear friends! From today’s discussion, it is clear to us that people do not want to do anything again. We certainly propose to support the bill, which has been passed by two opposition factions, which substantially raise pensions, wages without creating inflation and budget deficits. Today we call for support for the presidential bill, which also increases pensions and wages with the creation of additional budget deficits and consequently without spontaneous inflation processes. As for the government bill, I would like you to remember its four major flaws. The first flaw. That's what conceals inflation processes, that because of the pressure on the State Standard, they are now practically misrepresenting inflation rates, because every person in the country understands that when tariffs and prices rise for everything and everything, inflation can be 7 percent. This is obvious even to an average citizen. The second flaw that is. What the government has proposed to increase pensions and wages is less than real inflation in the country. And that's why it's a lie that doesn't actually increase wages and pensions. The third flaw in this budget. This is a substantial increase in the budget deficit, which will lead to unforeseeable absolutely consequences, and which has absolutely no need to create, and it is necessary to eliminate the hidden revenue of the budget that today has become a commonality. And the fourth problem that's in the government project. This fourth deficit in the budget is that part of the additional income part of the budget is formed by the government on the basis of the sale of everything left in the Ukrainian Armed Forces. And that's unacceptable -- selling out armies, socialists and communists! And today even the function of selling surplus property, the land of military forces from the Ministry of Defense is being transferred to a central government that will practically divide it by its corruption. And so for this budget, the government can't vote in any way! And our faction will appeal to the President for argument on vetoing. People do not need to be misled and tossed bones that are not real to people in increasing their income!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u114	Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u115	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! I'd like to go back to the very important question that was raised in this room, and first of all, Mr. Stoyan raised it that the government bill provides for bigger numbers than the ones proposed by the President. This is about you taking the basis of an old bill that was introduced by the President of Ukraine on February 19th. And on March 13, the figures proposed by the President of Ukraine and the figures proposed by the government are absolutely identical in social standards. That's why we have to vote for the president. In terms of the size of the State budget deficit, the GDP deficit is projected at 2.9, not counting GDP at 3.1 percent. In doing so, the amount of borrowing remains constant. It is proposed to vote in favour of the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine as qualified. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u116	Mikola Janović, please. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say for the transcript that the Government supports the proposal of the People's Deputies for article one, as well as the proposal of the People's Deputies of Melnik to redistribute the funds of the Special Fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u118	Mikola Janović, please, stay away from the microphone or fix it there because it's not going to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u119	We also consider the proposal of the Bondarczuk People's Deputy to be very correct, and we promise that the Government guarantees that, in the next budget review, we will certainly take into account 330 million and pay back to the people what the previous Governments have not paid them for the valuable contributions of the population. I was approached by the Tihonov People's Deputy, he unfortunately did not make his proposal; I will do so to amend article 86, part 2, and article 71, paragraph 47, with regard to the right of the Cabinet of Ministers to establish the number of states in the local government. Regional councils are involved. We agree with this proposal to suspend this article. And literally a few words on the questions here that have not been answered. But first of all, we're being accused here, and that's what you haven't paid for two months there, people or three months. Respectable people's deputies, the financial outcome of which we can only make a decision on 14 April. Such statistics. We are now borrowing from the fund balances from previous accounts. That's what I'm going to say to those literate people who blame us for something. Now the tariff inflation, Nikolai Ivanovich. In December-month, despite the decision taken by Kievrada, tariffs were not actually raised. And so, of course, they didn't go into December or January inflation either. They were taken into account by Goskomstat in February inflation. Now. You will be interested in the State Committee on Statistics, which is an absolutely open body, which share of tariffs at the general level of inflation. I would like to recall that for the first time in winter, prices were falling, i.e. food deflation. This has reduced the cost of housing and utility tariffs. Therefore, if there was a literate, constructive discussion, not an attempt to accuse the Government of something, well, then it would be possible to speak in a professional language. And the last. I don't understand Timoshenko's logic. On the one hand, it calls for a vote in favour of the Presidential Bill. On the other hand, our bill is virtually no different from the Presidential bill. What's the veto now for the budget bill? This non-retirement of elevated pensions, wages since first April, is precisely the deprivation of our troops' additional wage supplements and so on. This is the purest provocation against the people of Ukraine. I am therefore deeply convinced that the President will not go for such provocation, that the budget will be signed, enter into force and that our people will, indeed, receive a real increase in wages and pensions from the first of April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u120	Replicas: Klukkowski, Stoyan, Timoshenko Sivulian? And Sivuliski one minute at a time. And Kalashnikov. Please. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u121	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I’m really dissatisfied with Mikola Janović’s answer to my question, even if he started to answer my question in part after the next question. And I think this slow reaction is pretty dangerous. The fact is, the government had to first bend tens of thousands of tons of grain, and only then did they realize that export quotas were wrong. It was only three months later that the government realized that there were funds in the budget to raise social standards. It seems to me that three months from now, and even the head of the budget committee will realize that there cannot be an increase in deficits without an increase in borrowing. It seems to me that such a government with a slow reaction to Ukraine is very dangerous, and that is why I am very dissatisfied with the answers that were there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u122	Thank you. I take it that you're dissatisfied with the answer, and I want to announce that by exercising the right of chairman, I'm going to continue this session for 15 minutes in order to complete this consideration. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u123	I, my dear friends, am now holding a statistical comparison of what our government has done and what the Yanukovich Government has done for the first steps. So what I want to tell you is that in 2005, when the Janukovitch government made a virtually deep deficit of the Pension Fund, we were able, our government, to raise the minimum pension by 66 dollars in one year, including an average pension by 134 dollars. And in 2006 and 2007, in just two years, they barely made it 60 bucks. I just want to emphasize that the social standards that our government has raised, this government has not even dreamed of, because our government, the first government after the President's fair elections, has been working on the childization of the economy, and now there's corruption, a shadow, total bribery, total theft of state finances, and that's why you have such low social standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u124	Mikola Ivanovich, you're probably going to continue. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear Mikola Janovich! I'm glad we can have a professional conversation in this room. I understand that Mr. Derzkomt doesn't count these tariffs -- tariff hikes -- as a billing method. He's counting them by the cash method. So when, from December 1, all the Chinese were raised 3.4 times, their December really didn't have to be counted. But all January, people started paying 3.5 times more after the 10th, after getting the payments. Why doesn't he take that into account? Secondly, when an illegal decision to raise by 3.5 times was cancelled and they only agreed to double, I ask, why is it that, in March, Derzkomstat counts only one and a half times when they've actually increased by two? Obviously there are serious questions about how to calculate these parameters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u126	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u127	You know, I also keep comparisons, I show you, and I want to say, what is the "food minimum"? It is a national social standard, with minimum wage, minimum pension. And our goal is to bring these standards closer to 100% equality. So in the time of one lady in 2005, the minimum wage was 61.3 percent. Why didn't they do 100 percent? And in the days of Yanukovich, today, the minimum wage for living is 82.3. Mikola Janović didn't say, I want him to confirm. In 2008, the government envisions a 100 percent minimum wage to be made to a minimum of living. Here's the indicator. And the second. Mr. Yatsenuk, it's very good that the President has adjusted his figures under our pressure. So I propose to unify two laws, to call it government-presidential, to vote in favour of this one law. [[Governmental and Presidential]] And I urge you to uphold this law, and everything will be fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u128	Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u129	Thank you. Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. Despite the false and slanderous statements made to me, I have respected and will treat every member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a representative of the people of Ukraine. I condemn and believe that politics, homage, populism in the sessional room are unacceptable, which do not increase our common authority. Journalists were respected and respected. Paparazzi and provocations are a disgrace to Ukrainian journalism. And I'm just going to answer a beautiful woman with the words of the 2000 newspaper journalists, the second March of this year. With regard to you, the indictment of the U.S. District Court, North Carolina, in the case of Paul Lazarenko, it is clearly stated that payments made by Ukrainian clients for the natural gas supplied to ESA and fraudulently transferred to foreign bank accounts owned by the company. You are an accomplice to the fraud and money-laundering conspiracy that has affected the people of Ukraine. I will serve and serve my people, regardless of you. It's an honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u130	I think we've exchanged our thoughts on budget content, and we've exchanged our compliments. In accordance with the requirements of the Rules, I must raise a debate before the vote, and I would like to make a few suggestions. First of all, I'll be honest, I'm ashamed that we're having an argument about who was first. Whoever brought the first project or the first project brought the best, or first, took care of the welfare of the people. All of this reminds me of a famous song that often sings in Russia: “Everyone who is not the first has the second. ” I'd like us to bring ourselves and each and every and every one of us to remember, the first two lines of this song, and then everything will be in place. We use arguments, for example, because we didn't plan on having money from the past, at the end of last year's budget period, we didn't release movies. Over the course of 15 years, what are the films released at budget expense in Ukraine? "The Orange Sky" isn't released for budget money and it's the only film that's worth the attention, I'd like to say. Let's move on. Bookkeeping. He said, no funds were allocated, last year, out of 18 million dollars in support of the Ukrainian book, only five were used here, and after the new government was formed, the government of the anti-crisis coalition. And not a penny is used anymore. Who is responsible for this? Who are you reprimanding? Serious lines have been made to my address by one of the speakers. I want to say that eight billion dollars that have not been budgeted is a fact that has been confirmed by the President. And 350 million is a lie distributed by a specific person here. It's a decent difference. I want to say that yesterday, in a conversation with the President in the presence of the Prime Minister, the First Vice Prime Minister, he agreed that the Cabinet of Ministers' project does not foresee an increase in the budget deficit. He didn't know the arguments that the Cabinet of Ministers was using. It was confirmed yesterday, I repeat, it's a fact. So I would ask that we pay attention to this situation. In addition, all of you are well aware of the need to operate on accurate numbers. So we hear a story about, there's no statistics, there's pressure on Minstat or Derzkomstat, and that's why we can't really estimate the deficit. And now it's called 16 percent. But who counts them, then comes out like this? If there's no data, it turns out that we're counting from the ceiling somewhere, that's not appropriate. The point is that you can't sell the property from the army, it's the right offer. Only the answer I would like to receive is the same as society. In 15 years, a little more, the army's assets were looted to the ground, how many coins did not come into the budget from that property. And we're all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-15-m1.u131	That's right, so you ask, because you supported him, how could this happen? It's important to understand here, it's not that big a salary increase and a pension, because all three projects are essentially the same. The point is not to allow inflation to increase. And here the government needs help from Parliament. Because sometimes we have discussions here that really provoke inflation. And that's what everyone in every country understands. But it seems to some that it is convenient. You can't let that happen. We need to take this matter very seriously and responsibly. And finally another circumstance. In accordance with article 116 of the Constitution and the Budget System Act, and not only where the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers for the preparation and execution of the budget is determined, but also in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which we have jointly imposed on the President to act, is the responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers. And it is possible to vote in favour of proposals and other legislators if they take the initiative to implement the Cabinet of Ministers, it is guaranteed that it will be implemented. If that is not the case, it is obvious that we should objectively support the offer made by the Cabinet of Ministers because he is responsible for it. However, three drafts were submitted for consideration. And in order of their coming, I put them to a vote. The first bill, 3068 registration number, was written by the national deputy of Sivuliski. I put him to the vote. [[6:10:39]] For-195 The factions, please. But it is not clear that two factions are voting in favour of this project, 118 – “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, 75 – “Our Ukraine”, non-fractional – 2. And the rest don't vote. The President's draft is a good bill, 3068, which in the main figures matches the government's, put to the vote. [[18:11:23]] For 199 The factions, please. The Party of Regions – 2, the Yulia Block Timoshenko – 118, “Our Ukraine” – 77, the Socialists and Communists did not vote, the non-fractional – 2. The 3282 government project on the 2007 State Budget, with the amendments just named Mikola Janović Azarov. The vote is, if we vote positively, generally as a law that is passed. I'll bet you a vote. [[18:12:16]] For 248 To - 248. The document was accepted as a law. The factions, please. Region Party – 185, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 5, Our Ukraine – 1, Socialists – 31, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. I thank you for your fruitful and constructive work. Apologize to each other, that's what happens in the discussion. Break. Tomorrow morning's meeting at 10 a.m. The evening session is closed.
