ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u1	Good morning to all, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests. I'm asking you to register with the Ukrainian National Deputies. [[10:01:36]] Ladies and gentlemen, the number of deputies registered in the Chamber is 437. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to brief you on the progress of the negotiation process. The first most good news, probably, is that there is no bad news and negotiations are being held. We hope that mutual and compromise decisions will be made. Sadly, however, the parties have not yet come to such a decision. Yesterday, we completed the negotiation process very late on the Conciliation Council, but I hope that the basic principles for the distribution of committees will be agreed on in the shortest terms. Once again, I would like to remind you that in the order of the High Council of the day, we still have one key issue regarding the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Then we'll go to the committee question. In view of the ongoing consultations on this key issue and the fact that the two factions are the Communist Party of Ukraine and the Party of the Regions, just filed for a 30-minute recess, I ask to announce a 30-minute recess, and after consultations on the Conciliation Council, we will leave, I hope, with a more clear solution. Thank you. And the important, honourable national MPs -- I'm very sorry -- is the important thing: I'd like to welcome our colleague today -- Alexander's Alla Alexandrovna and wish you the best.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u2	morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me brief you on the results achieved at the Conciliation Council. The consultations continue in part with the order and mechanism of distribution of committees and approaches for the selection of the governing bodies of the committees of the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, I have to say that there is some pressure in the blockage of the Supreme Council's rostrum. I appeal to the leaders of all factions to avoid an unconstructive approach to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] In doing so, I would like to point out that no issue outside the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure in the last two days of our work has been on the agenda. Including the question of creating a special commission. I think that the factions that have opposed this decision should, in some ways, evaluate it as a fairly legitimate and correct approach to the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As for further work, I'd like to give three minutes' performances from the faction in order for faction leaders or authorized persons to report on the results of the work during the Conciliation Council meeting. We will continue to make the final decision. I'm asking you to sign up. Five minutes. Please give a statement five minutes away from the factions. On the screen, give me the speeches. Chappinoga, please. Says Timoshenko Ulya Volodymyrni. Tymoshenko Julia Volodymyrna, The Yulia Tymoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u3	Excuse me. The microphones in the knot are tied. Good afternoon, dear friends! I would like to say a few words about what the crisis is today in the Supreme Council and how it can be solved. In fact, the question is now about the appointment of the first Vice-Speaker, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, the simple deputy head of the Supreme Council, the heads, the deputies, the secretaries of the committees. And I'd like all the factions to hear now what the Democratic Coalition's proposal is to form into the factions that represent the minority today. First, we have proposed, unlike the previous call, that the position of the first vice-speaker be offered to the minority itself and that the only candidate for the post of vice-speaker, or each faction can, as a minority faction, put forward its candidacy and the democratic coalition has promised to vote in favour of the minority as the only list for the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and as the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council in order that there is absolutely no doubt that we are doing this sincerely and that there will be no more than a few votes. Now, about the committees. I want to remind you of the history of the previous vocation that our faction, as the opposition, gave in the final principle some committee with us in disagreement, we accepted and led these committees. Now we've offered this order from the democratic coalition. The two smallest factions are "Block of Lithuania" and the Communist faction of its quotas, which they are expected to have by number, can choose first, beyond any turn. So the democratic coalition is giving way to that right and you can choose the committees that you think are necessary: budget, other -- we're willing to agree to that. The other one. The remaining committees will be distributed between the Party of Regions and the Democratic Coalition. And we've suggested that we do, given that we have almost equally there are votes, committee election in turn, so that there is no subjective approach, so that we can do it objectively, without any controversy. And we're willing to vote on all the staff assignments at the same time, and I don't think that's a bad offer, and this proposal could have been made yesterday. But minority factions have asked them to put together their common minority package -- three factions -- and they went to consult yesterday. As representatives of the democratic coalition, we waited for more than five hours on the third floor of the Bureau’s office, waited for the results, advised only the factions that represent the minority today. After all these hours of the night they came and said they had no joint decision, they didn't find the opportunity to put a single candidate on the first vice-speaker, and on the committees we couldn't understand anything. The only thing that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin declared was that Azarov needed to enter the committee's score. Well, the thing is, the score sheet, it's going to raise some committees, it's going to discredit others at all. There can be no such thing as costing the social committee one ball and financing and banking 50 points. This also offends those who defend their interests by these committees and offends those deputies who will work on these committees. And so if you're able, first of all, to choose the Communist factions in general and the Lithuanian Block, well, select the best committee, the one that costs 100 points, we won't deny it. Still, in turn, you also determine your priorities, for whom committees are more relevant, just choose them first. And we're going to be with you in an absolutely equal situation, regardless of what we represent most today. Today, we do not use the strong right of the majority to impose any distribution of committees. But there must be some kind of justice. And what's more, if this distribution happens, as I suggest, and the democratic coalition offers it, then the democratic majority will even be in a less privileged state in the distribution of the committee than the minority that will have the right to choose twice. And I think that the fact that three minority factions today failed to make a deal and go out with a single package is wrong. But at the same time, we're retaining the position of first vice-speaker behind you while you're at home, as well as ready to go to bilateral consultations with each faction to make it possible if you can't do it in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u4	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u5	Literally, half a second. So you can do it separately. We are interested in the fact that there is no opposition in Parliament, no controversy, and that we have the opportunity of the opposition to offer the conditions that we, as opposition, have never been offered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u6	Tereshuk Sergey Mikolayovich. "Block of Lithuania" faction. Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich, “Block of Lithuania” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u7	Dear National Deputies! I would like to take this opportunity to welcome today’s local self - government workers, who are holding the country on their shoulders, who are communicating directly with people, who feel all the problems that people are concerned about, unlike, unfortunately, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] I want to say, my fellow Members, in the case of the Supreme Council, you can see that Ukrainian politicians have won the Ukrainian people once again, and now they've come to share everything they share in the country and they've forgotten about what they went through and what they told people in the elections. Now. [[B in m in s a l in]] I, my dear colleagues, to those who shout, want to say, be simpler and everyone will see that it's easier to go anywhere. So, I would like to say further, dear colleagues, we believe that today there is a dangerous trend, when there is an attempt to artificially divide the Supreme Council in half, “to dig trenches” in the middle of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's the first one. Second, respectable colleagues. Because of the distribution of posts, I would like to say that the old practice that destroyed the previous Supreme Council of Ukraine today is coming back when they proposed positions for people to join the coalition. Today, I want to officially state that jobs are again being offered. And when they say that we're offering you the position of first vice-speaker, it's not done when this position is offered in the bank for a person to put his eyes down, and we vote for you, but you go ahead and support us. If we want political corruption to return to the walls of the Supreme Council, then it is called “political corruption”, now called “democracy”. I want to say it and say it won't work! That's the first one. That's what I'm trying to say. Positions and suggestions on what you support, vote, we'll give you the position of minister -- this is a return, a return to that practice that destroyed the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am convinced that new parliamentaryism cannot be built in Ukraine on an old-fashioned basis. And one more thing. Dear colleagues, we obviously need to be aware of the economic, social, political situation in Ukraine that people are in. We should probably talk today about why the technological catastrophes in Ukraine are of a planned nature, and obviously we should talk about how people survive and survive in the conditions of energy efficiency. That's why I would think, and this is the position of our faction, and this is the main thing that we need to have today in the Supreme Council to talk about the state of the country in which the legacy is taking on a new future government, which is the President of Ukraine and what he said about his vision of internal and external politics, and then, being aware of the responsibility that the Supreme Council and the coalition have before it, I would like to say, to talk about the responsibility of the entire Supreme Council, to decide about those managers, those ministers who will work in government with it being a working government, with it being the Supreme Council responsible. I am convinced that a serious discussion is needed today, and there is no need to show that there are concessions to each other in terms of the distribution of positions. Let's talk about the serious discussions, the problems, the proposals we made during the election campaign. I understand you want to demonstrate in this same way that the election is the charity of the poor for the rich, it won't go away! And once again, our faction has come to the Supreme Council to work and allow us to work! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u8	Boiler Roman Mihajlovich, Block “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u9	Dear colleagues, let me be very concise, without the populism that we hear very often from this high rostrum, I declare the official position of the faction "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense." The faction officially refers to the Party of the Regions, the “Block of Lithuania”. Call your candidate, any one of your factions as First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. And we will vote in favour of this candidate. I would also like to state the official position of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense," and we don't accept the proposal of the Party of the Regions, which is that for each committee to hang a figure called ball. Because, in this way, we're not only going to insult those committee members who get smaller scores, we're not just going to insult the heads of these committees. We're going to insult the entire population that these committees have to solve. We don't take the proposal to sit in some dark room and actually do the definition of these points, because we think it's a wastebasket. And the sink in this room has to be stopped. We'll never agree to that. That's why we're totally accepting the proposal that was made by the leader of the Yulia Tymoshenko Block. The first committee selects the smallest faction. And Volodymyr Mikhailovich, tell me what the element of corruption is in this proposal. I don't see her at all. Choose the committee first. The next faction of numbers is the Communist faction. Let him choose the committee they want. What are the elements of corruption in such a proposal? At least I don't see them or understand them. Such a system would be the most objective; it would be transparent. If you want, let's even do it under cameras. Let each faction in turn call that committee they wanted to see. Again, it is no longer a log, it is already, indeed, an objectively normal system of identification of individual committees. But do not try to humiliate one committee by identifying one committee or another. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is now facing the only question: the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I'd like to remind you what our proposal was three days ago -- that we be the only list on the Head, the first deputy, and the deputy. We made this proposal because we understood that, firstly, the position of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is an opposition, but we also understood that you have no votes, and in order to ensure that our colleagues would still vote for most of your candidacy, we proposed that we do it as a single list. You accused us of violating all the principles of democracy and almost offending all the progressive humanity. That's why we called off the offer. Now again, I say without any irony, enter, not now we will make this proposal, make a proposal for a vote, a more faithful election, the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council with a single list. I'm not going to ask you to apologize for the rumors I heard from this rostrum. We vote for this proposal and then let's select these two officials as a single list. But I definitely want you to understand the position of our faction. Under no circumstances will we support the list, or we will not support the candidate for the First Deputy or Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine from the Communist Party of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u10	Faction Communist Party of Ukraine Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u11	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues. On behalf of the faction, I would like to express our point of view and explain what is behind these words, which lead to fornication throughout Ukraine. We have the result of the election. Every elector should today, following the events in the Supreme Council, think again about who you, the honourable, voted for. What processes are taking place today in Ukraine as a result of elections? The general process is the distribution of power, and then the distribution of property remains. That's understandable. How this affects the well-being of our citizens, that's clear, they'll be even poorer. But let us understand today why this situation has arisen in the Supreme Council, because Ukraine is in real danger of usurping power. And the Company today explains what's going on. We stand on guard today so that this usurpation of power does not take place. I'll explain. The president is orange and he's doing everything today to make an orange policy. orange policy is only part of the Ukrainian people, supported policy has been implemented. The Supreme Council, most of them. including the organization of the work of the Supreme Council, i.e. the distribution of posts is also an orange majority. The minister's office next will be completely orange. Thus, we have a very dangerous situation in Ukraine: the usurpation of power that will change both internal and external politics. By the way, I would like to remind you that there were eight ministers in the previous government who were representatives of the presidential team. Solutions. Of course, the Supreme Council needs to balance today, based on the results of the elections, everything that happens to us in the organization of power. So it's no coincidence that we Communists insist that today the heads of the committees of those who practically provide internal politics in our country should be from those factions that have not entered the coalition, because ministers, because the ministers will be the orange ones that will conduct the orange policy, which is called the Constitution of Power. Another problem. That's what's happening to us today. We do not yet have a usurpation of power in Ukraine, but nationalism, Russophobia, anticommunist hysteria is being unleashed in the country today, and it is obvious that there will be a further spread of anti - Semitism in Ukraine. Next. I would also like to pay attention to the third problem. This is, first of all, what has to do with the results of this usurpation of power. This will necessarily lead, firstly, to an accelerated accession to NATO, and this will be a necessary problem for Ukraine; this is the programme of accession to the WTO required by the Pacific hosts for Ukraine; this is an exacerbation and a relationship with Russia. All of this will lead to Ukraine being transformed from an external economic and external political entity into an object for manipulation and a third - class State. Which, of course, is the threat we Communists face. So the first conclusion. We don't need to usurp power. And the Supreme Council, which received 50 by 50 seats of its electorate, has to break this chain that the orange team is looking for, following instructions from abroad. It's different. Today, through the Supreme Council, we need to create a prerequisite so that we do not in any way develop a strong social relationship when nationalism, Russophobia, is imposed, I say again, and it unfolds, and anticommunist hysteria is unleashed. This is a very serious threat to the State as a whole. So we, the faction of Communists, and we insist, must continue the negotiation process and balance everything that is the will of the people of Ukraine, not try to usurp power today, as the President and the orange team do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, a brief summary of the summation and one more appeal. What “Regions”? [[B in m in s a l in]] Mikola Janović Azarov, I didn't see you recorded. I'm sorry, Mikola Janovich. I'm sorry, Mikola Janovich, right now. I don't think anyone will mind – instead of five minutes, six minutes as compensation, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u13	That's why we're blocking the rostrum. To be serious, the distinguished people's deputies, of course, what Timoshenko told you here, of course, is not true. That's not why we blocked the rostrum, that we lacked any points or committees, or we don't agree on a position for us -- a party of regions, that's, believe me, unscrupulous. [[B in m in s a l in]] In principle, how the work of the Supreme Council will be organized, or how we have tried to do so on the first few days, to speak to us in the language of power, ultimatums, when we have 227 votes, and we can dictate to you, that is to say, respected colleagues, that will not be the case. We represent almost half of the population of Ukraine, so we will not allow ourselves to speak the language of power and ultimatums. You have to start with that. As soon as you are aware of this simple truth that we are committed to constructive work and can work constructively with us, constructive work will begin in Ukraine for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. [[Applause]] And the issues that Parliament must consider are enormous. And believe me, the Party of the Regions has never been a destructive force, and it will never continue. Why, dear Roman Mihajlovich, do you think it is possible to dictate to us who you recommend to support as our first Vice Speaker and who you do not recommend to support. Here. Therefore, respectable colleagues. I'm asking you not to interrupt me, I didn't interrupt anyone. I listened carefully to what my colleagues said and asked for an opportunity to tell me. Here's a little example of this -- I'm talking to the press, to our radio audiences -- how they tried to talk to us, and we're trying to make sure that our opinions are respected. Second moment, extremely important. So many and hypocritically claimed attempts to bribe members of the people. Why are representatives of the so-called Bolsheviks and what Vladimir Mikhajlovich was talking about, and what we know, they are trying to split both factions and individual MPs, offering them various posts. What's that called? Because it is only recently that you have blocked the work of the Supreme Council, referring to such facts and because of your work that it has not worked properly for more than a year. The Supreme Council. Therefore, we propose and call upon you, let us try to work honestly, respected colleagues. Come on. Here. We are ready to do a very honest job, and we are not negotiating with anyone. No one. I confirmed Arsenia Petrovich's position on our faction. If you agree to consider both lots and priorities, and the principles on which the coalition should work, and the principles on which the opposition should work, we will call it what directions we should be responsible for, we will discuss calmly. We've been here for two or three hours, and we've convinced you this many times, and we're able to negotiate and compromise. But yesterday, those five hours you talked about, we didn't talk about it, but we discussed the principles of lots, priorities. We don't care. We are interested in how to organize the work so that the opposition can work for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. We are faced with extremely important tasks by our distinguished colleagues. This is, for example, the adoption of the 2008 State Budget. And you will need more than ever the concerted work of all the factions of the Supreme Council. That is why we call on you today. We have with you today, tomorrow, the next few days. And if you make a constructive position, we'll find a common language and we'll agree. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u14	The replica. The word on the line. Timishenko Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u15	Dear friends, I now wish to address the deputies of the three factions that represent the minority today. Most of you have worked in more than one assembly of parliament. And you now had the opportunity to hear different positions from the rostrum and compare them both with previous periods and with what is being declared and proposed today. You know that the opposition has never been offered any such conditions as we now propose. And I want to repeat again: the position of the first Vice-Speaker or of the three factions is one defined, or each faction can negotiate on this subject, plus the first selection of factions by factions that have the smallest number, and then between the Party of Regions and the Democratic Coalition a series of committees depending on the priorities of each faction. This is indeed a condition that for the first time on a systemic level is offered publicly, and there will be no strong vote on the part of the democratic majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u16	The word on the line is Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u17	Dear Mikola Janovich, I address you. You were talking about the budget, then let's make the next proposal, which has already been made, by the way, by the leader of the Timoshenko Yulia Block, so that the smallest faction would take the first choice. I'm probably guessing because this was stated by Vladimir Mikhailovich in the negotiations that this faction of the "Livina Block" would take on the budget committee. Let's form a budget committee and decide on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-07-m0.u18	Thank you. I would like to point out that such a public discussion is extremely useful in view of the fact that all the factions have spoken. In doing so, let us go back to the materials and decisions made by the Governing Council and taken by all the factions. The position of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council remains with the representatives of minorities who have not been formed to this day into opposition. As far as we're concerned, the question remains in the agenda until Tuesday, and on Tuesday, the Supreme Council's apparatus awaits an official proposal, and the Supreme Council expects official proposals from factions that do not belong to the majority regarding the appointment of the First Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. With regard to the appointment of Vice-President of the Supreme Council, the majority made such a proposal, namely Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, and in accordance with article 74 of the Rules, consideration of the matter at the plenary session is possible after a faction discussion and appropriate consultations by the nominee for the post of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, Mr. Tomenko. An extremely important message that I would like to make in this room. Under any circumstances, in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and article 200 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, a vote will take place on Tuesday in favour of the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the composition of the Government, if any. [[Applause]] I emphasize that this is a clear legislative and regulatory rule. And, with your permission, last of all, I'm addressing faction leaders first, let's not make the Supreme Council a laughing stock for the whole country that's happening today in the blockage part and the part that's creating a totally unacceptable situation in the eyes of the Ukrainians. Then there will be the seventh, twenty - seven, three hundred and fifty - sixth Supreme Council of the corresponding calling. If we arrange for a meeting of the Conciliation Council. There we can say anything you want behind closed doors, but it is desirable that we get out of there with an agreed and acceptable decision. I ask as Head of the Supreme Council to stop the circus blocking the Supreme Council rostrum, landing in the seat of the Supreme Council. Whoever wants to sit down, keep driving. And in view of the fact that we decide everything on the Conciliation Council, and here only calmly, we come in and vote, and we work for the benefit of the Ukrainian people. In view of the meeting of the Supreme. [[Applause]] Given that we do not have final proposals, article 74 of the Rules requires consultations, and the meetings of the Supreme Council are closed today. The next meeting is Tuesday at 10 a.m.
