ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u1	I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Sit in your seats, put your cards on. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:39]] Ready to begin the work of 254 national deputies. The morning session is open. Dear colleagues! Today is the birthday of the national deputies of Yuri Zubka. Let's welcome him. 45 years is not the age, of course, it's just the beginning of age. Kozachenko is also 45 years old, Alexia Alexiyovich, and we welcome them, although they are now busy with other matters. Gregory Nemira, 47 years old, and Odarchenka Yuri, 47. Let's give them a big round of applause so they don't forget they're still gonna have to work here for four years in that warehouse. Please. Hello, welcome. [[Applause]] Deputies! Yesterday, I want to report that. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm informing you and the radio audience, that yesterday we've been assigned with regard to the information of the leaders of the forces regarding the measures they have provided to ensure public order in Ukraine, and at the morning session we've been invited: Minister of Internal Affairs Tsushko Vasil Petrovich, First Deputy Head of the Security Service, Nadvajchenko Valentin Aleksandrovich, Head of the State Border Service, Litvina Mikhalovich, Attorney-General Medvedjko Alexander Ivanovic, Chief of Internal Affairs of the Kichtenko Army, who, by the way, is also born today, so we can welcome you. [[Applause]] And the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. I can't see if it's there or not. Minister of Defence Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. I really don't see him at the meeting right now. Well, traffic in Kiev might be hard to get to. So we'll come back to this question a little bit later, and now there's an offer: we decided at a meeting last night to review the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to local executive authorities and local self-government bodies, their officials and officials. This is a draft decision registered to you, it's in your hands. But we need to discuss it, both the content of the appeal and the determination itself. So I have a proposal to put this issue in order of the day to look at it and figure it out. Please vote. [[10:07:31]] For 229 Decision taken. Honorable deputies are invited to contact local executive authorities and local authorities, their officials and officials with such reasoning. I'm asking for your attention! The political opposition provoked by the clearly unconstitutional decree of the President of Ukraine to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fifth time caused serious tension in society. At the same time, through appropriate media outlets in the community. I'm asking for your attention! In doing so, the relevant media in the public consciousness creates an idea of the undeniable right of President Yushchenk of Ukraine as a guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine for any action, based solely on his own ideas of the extent of his powers. At the same time, attempts are being made to exert undue direct and indirect pressure on the heads of the local executive authorities to ensure their participation or to support them in the implementation of the unconstitutional decree of the President of Ukraine. As a result, some local authorities, their officials, and officials under pressure from local executive authorities, or at their own initiative as part of a party’s position, joined in implementing this decree. The Supreme Council of Ukraine draws the attention of local authorities, their officials, to the fact that no unconstitutional decree or order can replace the Constitution or laws of Ukraine. Having virtually absolute immunity, the President of Ukraine provokes legal chaos in the country by pushing state authorities and local authorities to commit mass wrongdoing. The Supreme Council of Ukraine hopes that in a difficult political situation, local authorities will ensure stability and will be governed exclusively by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This is the content of a draft document. I'm asking you to sign up for the treatment of the members of the various factions. Please. Sign up. From factions. Now from the deputies, please. About 20 minutes, that's enough. Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u2	The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Mikola Sadov. Today, we must make a decision. It is extremely important to our society, a Ukrainian society, in which it is extremely painful to the heart of the ropes that, unfortunately, our authorities are carrying out. At the same time, I also address all the councils, all the heads of the district, the district government that we have the Constitution, and this is the basic law that we have to live by. There are 60 articles there, and this 60 article tells us that no one has the right to carry out criminal or other illegal orders, regulations, and so forth. Therefore, the Constitution is above all things, and it must be sustained and adhered to in all its requirements. The fact that the President, unfortunately, has gathered the heads of the district government, and the Secretariat has stated that either you sign an appropriate plea in support of the President's decree of illegal, unconstitutional, or you will be released from office, that is also a state crime and will have to be answered for it sooner or later. The answer before the law, the answer, to the great regret, in court. Whether we want it or not, the Constitution and it, in the end, will be followed and observed. This is all chaos, which is temporary, it will pass. I can also give an example of the Kirovograd region when it was directed to the heads of district government in all media to explain the President’s decree that he was legal and constitutional. It's all not true, it's all a lie. If you read article 90 of the Ukrainian Constitution, even at school, students in schools who read this article determined that the President’s decree was unconstitutional. They even write about this in their literature, particularly in Ukrainian literature. And I've even gotten this stuff in the mail. Yes, if the students understand all of this, is it not understandable to the heads of district councils, city councils, district heads, district administrators? So the faction of socialists calls for all to abide by the law, the Constitution, because sooner or later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u3	Thank you. Pomarenko. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich of the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u4	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Respected colleagues, respected radios, TVs, Ukrainian citizens, there is much to be said about the illegality, the unconstitutionality of the decree, but most importantly, we must all deal with it together today, and this has prompted and prompted the President to pursue such unconstitutional criminal cases. First of all, the unfulfilled promises made to the American side since 2004, which Ukraine will see in the perspective that the Americans see their strategic interests in each corner of the globe. Second. We must understand with you that a Council meeting is being held today, the National Security Council, whose task is to legitimize another illegal non-constitutional Presidential Emergency Order. This is also done in order to accelerate the implementation of the directives of both the US administration and the transnational corporation in the face of the same large oligarchs as Kalomooi and Berezovsky. We need to know that the truth is that after the visit to the United States of America and the secret talks, they've received a quarter of a billion dollars to complete the second phase of the orange route to make Ukraine a colony, both political and economic interests of the United States. We must also understand with you that President Yushchenko has practically learned a “topor of war” and such a decree will turn him into the fact that no elections will be held in a number of areas. In a number of areas, there will be civil opposition against the arbitrary orange team of the nationalist corner imposed on Ukraine today. I believe that these are the questions that should be understood in every house today, in every house, to be aware of what is being done by those who smile kindly today and who are acting on the orders of the Americans. I think that soon it will be known who this French lady was actually meeting and what services were doing the proper processing in part of the promises made to her by what would be done in Ukraine. Therefore, respectable comrades, there is no doubt - and the Communist faction will vote - to support this appeal. But this truth must be told to the people of Ukraine: it is enough for our nationalist people to support these political forces in this mess, the orange top. Trouble will come to every house. Therefore, I appeal to you citizens of Ukraine to reflect on what you are doing by supporting the political forces of our Ukraine and the BIT. This will result in very serious consequences for every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u5	Fishbowl, from the faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u6	People's deputy Ribhub. It's a faction of the Zitomirščina Region Party. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and dear Ukrainian people! Of course, we will now accept such a request. But what we want to point out is that not only has there been a brutal violation of the Constitution, a criminal, let's say, of the 90th article and others, today clearly understood that there has been a total denial of constitutional principles. And I am not mistaken, in the fifth article, which says that the only source and bearer of authority is the people. And here I want to say from this rostrum to the Ukrainian people and all of us that the scenario of today's events has been developed in advance and beyond our own state. And the scenario is to compromise the Supreme Council, starting with the opposition, and you remember all of us, the different hooligan acts, the different brutal rumors of non-censorship and all of that, to form the notions of people that, you see, some kind of Supreme Council, we have an unintelligent, not elite and such a thug-bandite that we need to dissolve it. And in fact, it has happened that the methodological compromise of the Supreme Council, the hooliganic acts, the label, the dirty barks, the purpose of the only one here is to turn the people away from the Supreme Council, which means to take away the people from power itself. This is how we see it today. This means that this lie is what the people want to do with their hands. This thing, gentlemen of the hoodlums, is as high as it gets. And the political will not pass. I've had dozens of calls yesterday, and several delegations have arrived, peasants who say, come on, tell us that the danger and we'll stop the light bulbs, we'll come here. Of course, I said, don't go yet! But it's happening, you see, the abuse of the Ukrainian people. Of course we do, but I, Alexander Alexanderovich, want to add that at the end where the Supreme Council expects to add, on my part, the Supreme Council is carrying out constitutional steps to restore the constitutional order in our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u7	Make a more detailed proposal and we will vote on it. I'm a self-sacrifice. After her, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u8	Dear listeners! But I, Alexander Aleksandrovich, have now received a message from Kahovka, where I am told that our speeches, if they have a sense of pain for the state, for the people of Ukraine, are interrupted by radio talk. I'd like us to give the commission and check on why this is happening. I want to say that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine and, as a woman, as a politician, as a citizen of Ukraine, I support the text of the statement. I refer to the local authorities, we have been chosen by people, people have entrusted us not only with their voices, they have entrusted us with their destiny, they have entrusted us with their hope of a better life. Honorable deputies of all levels! Dear leaders of district, city, district councils! We need to understand that the President's unconstitutional decree is doing everything to make Ukraine a battleground, on the one hand, with the old Europe, with the European Union, on the other hand, with our neighbour with Russia. And by no chance did the National Security Council go to Georgia to study the question of how to enslave their people and how to sell their land. We need stability, peace, order. I know that we have a number of people in the Hersonian area on my family's list to sign up for a volunteer and come here to Kiev to defend the Constitution of Ukraine, to defend their land, to defend the future of their children. How it has come to pass, Mr. President, that a mere man, a thousand times deluded, looted people of Ukraine, has risen above the President, and understands that your decree is unconstitutional and that under this decree will be the great tragedy of our Ukrainian people, the great tragedy of every human being, the great tragedy of our future state. The media, I appeal to you, to your public and political will. Let's objectively prove to people what's going on in the state. There is a usurpation of power. We are doing everything we can to have a dictatorship, not a citizen of Ukraine, but a dictatorship that understands where. Let us stand up for the constitutional order of our nation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Matthew has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u10	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, our constituencies. Today we are witnessing with you a scenario of an anti-constitutional coup d'état designed by the Western puppeteers, primarily from beyond the ocean, but in the execution of our growing orange rematchers of the "loving friends" of the President of Ukraine on our home land. Now the word "guarantee of the Constitution," I think more than ever must be taken into very large quotes. The constitutional scientists are shocked by the President's decree to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council in the first place. I met with them yesterday, and they are clear in their conclusion: this decree is unconstitutional. The President openly, cynically, violated the Constitution. And the question is, why, for whom and the covenant to whom? And here's the clear answer, we've already given it over the last four days. The guarantee of the Constitution must be stopped and, above all, all actions should be directed at being our country's highest legislative body, the Ukrainian Parliament. And this is particularly addressed and proposed, in my opinion, by a draft decree to refer the Supreme Council to local executives and local self-government bodies, their officials and officials. Without a doubt, it must be accepted now. But you can fill in, I think, Alexandre Alexanderovich and his distinguished colleagues, this is also a reference to part one of the first part of article 85, which states regarding the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it is entitled to, its powers include the appointment of alternate and successive elections to local self-government. I think it would be a safeguard for those very repetitive executives of the so-called presidential decree of the heads of the local authorities. And let's talk about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u11	Thank you. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u12	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. I would like to say that we must be supported by such a decision. Moreover, I am absolutely convinced that the idea of accepting such a document hangs in the air. This document is expected by our colleagues working in the regions. I want to emphasize again what I said yesterday. This is about the paradox of the situation, and it is that today the Coalition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is trying to protect the Constitution from its guarantor, today Ukraine, today the Supreme Council and the people of Ukraine are trying to protect democracy from Mr. Yushchenk's record Democrat. The real guarantor of the Constitution today or unfortunately, or fortunately, is the people of Ukraine and, in particular, those who came to Kiev, leaving their homes and leaving their urgent affairs behind. I want to say that history has repeatedly given examples of the questionable way to get to power, but it is impossible to sit on the boards. Another moment that I'd like to pay attention to. Dear colleagues! Many of us drew attention to yesterday’s information on the fact that Mr. Girinowski was expelled from the list of persons whose presence was unwelcome in Ukraine. But a lot of people don't know that kind of thing, but it's done in exchange for this so-called, so-called, vice-democrat of the President's criminal decree. As soon as he declared it, he was expelled from persons who were unwelcome in Ukraine. Here's the price of the decisions that are being made today. And one more thing. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are individual followers of the President in the regions. Today, I report to my fellow believers, there is a session of the City Council of Odessa, where questions about language are discussed among other issues. Well, access to the hall is very limited today. Coalition representatives and, in particular, members of the coalition’s national MPs are not allowed into the conference room! That's how she's selective democracy to Mr. Gurvice and his sidekicks. I support the need to make this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u13	Thank you. Please, let's go.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Without exaggeration, democracy in Ukraine today is going through one of the most serious tests of strength and perspective. The political forces of BUT and Our Ukraine, which went to past parliamentary elections under the slogans of European choice, are today openly demonstrating disregard for constitutional law and have essentially embarked on the path of supporting the constitutional coup d'état in the state. Talk about it. That asking the people to support the idea of the next election in contravention of the Constitution is democracy, and this is a European tradition, an open lie. The European tradition is that the state and its citizens live on the basis of the law, the first basic law, the Constitution. And if the two political powers disagree with the results of the elections and the impossibility of implementing themselves in power, that means that they should advocate for the next election and enlist the support of the citizens during the next election campaign. The situation is compounded by the fact that the President of the State of Yushchenko has gone beyond constitutional powers, issued an anti-constitutional decree and has essentially embarked on the path of inciting the country to a major civil conflict. The events of the last days strongly testify to these political forces. Those mentioned by me, as well as the President and his environment, are set up to continue to act in an illegal manner, realizing that what they have done has already deprived them of their ability to escape criminal responsibility for violating the basic law. Under such circumstances, they are interested in creating a democratic entourage for their actions. Hence the fraudulent comments of Presidential representatives in institutions such as the Constitutional Court on the power of presidential decree. Hence the false reports of support from the European authorities for the actions of the President and his environment in Ukraine. Under such conditions, we should go to the deputies of all levels, to all officials once again, and remind them that article 40 of the Constitution clearly provides for responsibility for implementation. Article 60 of the Constitution clearly provides for responsibility for the execution of criminal orders and orders. That is why every law-abiding citizen must act in full conformity not only with his conscience, his political convictions, but first with the proper legislation and the basic law of our state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u15	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, we discussed the text of the document and discussed in essence the same draft Decree because it refers only to the word “to approve the appeal of the Supreme Council to the local executive authorities.” and the text that you have on your hands. A proposal was made by Deputy Ribuk. It sounds like that after. in the last paragraph, after the words “the Supreme Council of Ukraine”, the entry “the Supreme Council of Ukraine will do its utmost to protect the Constitution and preserve constitutional relations in Ukraine. in the state, it is hoped that in a difficult political situation local authorities will be able to do so." and so on. No objections? That's why I'm putting this document on the ground. Please. Based on the base. [[10:34:37]] For 240 In general, can we vote? [[B in m in s a l in]] Sergey Headate, please. Head! And Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u16	Alexandre Alexandrovich, there in this amendment you proposed, protection of constitutional relations, replace the word “legal relations” with “constitutional order” – “for the protection of the constitutional system”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u17	And the preservation of the constitutional order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u18	Protection of the constitutional system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u19	Okay, okay. Thank you. Then we fix it all. Roger that. Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, I've taken the floor, in fact, for a replication. And here's to what. You know, we recently met with American congressmen, and they assured us that they would not interfere with Ukraine's internal affairs. But today, the “Voice of America” broadcasts a literal statement from several members of the American Congress that they are willing to finance an electoral campaign in Ukraine. Well, I don't think that's ever happened before. I don't know if it's the personal position of these people or whether it's the position of Congress. But I think the Ukrainian people should know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u21	Thank you. In the meantime, take the money from them, perhaps they will be inconclusive in Ukraine. Please, Mendus and Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I propose that the text of the appeal include a reference to the 60th article of the Constitution, which prohibits officials from carrying out criminal orders and orders that conflict with the current legislation and the Basic Law of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u23	I think you can add to the end, in particular article 60 of this Constitution, the Basic Law. Yes. And Herman, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u24	I propose an amendment. Instead of the words “through appropriate media” – “through separate media engagements”. Because not all information tools provide unobjectively all the processes that are taking place. And after the words “at the same time, attempts are being made to exert improper direct and indirect pressure on the heads of the local executive authorities to ensure their participation in the implementation of the unconstitutional decree of the President of Ukraine, which should be qualified as the use of administrative resources and the return to authoritarian methods of government management”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u25	Instead of “involved”, let us simply write “individual” because for many in the country it is not clear what “involved” is. And then the text is accepted. These amendments can be voted on. I'll bet you a vote. Please. [[10:38:10]] For 252 Decision taken. Take your seats, please. I'd like to make a message like this. At the evening meeting last night, we were discussing the annulment of the Supreme Council decision by the Cave Court, I remember that. It was said that the Central Electoral Commission did not refer to the Pecher Court for such a summons, however, the court ruled that the Supreme Council order should be repealed. We react to this situation in the legal order because we understand that we cannot go beyond the Constitution. But note this detail. On the basis of the President’s decree to cancel his own decree concerning the appointment of the head of the Pecher Court, the same court ruled that he would not work, would not be able to carry out his duties. He also appealed to the Pecher Court, judges on the grounds that the decree was illegal. And here's the approval of the Pecher District Court, judges Malininin and Podpalij have satisfied the concerns of Kolisnick, the head of the Pecher Court, to stop the execution of the President of Ukraine's decree of 30 March of repealing the President's decree of 21 June 2005, to stop the implementation of Presidential Decree No.2552007 of 30 March on the appointment of the presiding officers of the local General Court, generally such a norm, and the Constitution for the President does not provide for the appointment of performing duties. Force the President of Ukraine to stay away from the single issue of decrees of dismissal or cancellation of the decree of appointment as head of the Pecher District Court of Kiev. The approval is subject to immediate execution. So it's a legal decision. At the same time, the involved units of the Alpha Security Service, which have now essentially paralysed the work of the Cave Court, are trying to twist their hands and not be able to execute a court decision. Not even Ukraine has had that experience. Therefore, I would now like to propose that I make this decision: to assign the directors of the committees of profile - Jiji, Kiwalov and Samylenko - with my fellow deputies on the ground to find out the substance of the problems and to report to Parliament what is being done, from the point of view of the protection of the Constitution, of the constitutional system. In this regard, they will be able to take a break from the meeting of the Parliament until 13 p.m. and then inform what is going on there. That's one thing. The other one. At 11 o'clock, the President will be convened by the National Security and Defence Council. You know, as Head of the Supreme Council, I've been removed from the Security and Defence Council, which I'm extremely pleased with, because I can't be subordinated to anyone, including the President, as head of an independent branch of power. In accordance with the Constitution, article 107 provides that the Head of the Supreme Council may participate in a meeting of the Security Council. Yes, by the way, and we predicted when we recorded this rule in 1996. So I also want to go to a Security Council meeting and express my thoughts about what's going on there. [[Applause]] That's two. And in view of that, I would like to invite our colleagues, who are also invited to the Security and Defence Council meetings, to go there, and at the evening meeting then to us, we will transfer their information to the evening meeting, and we will look at the complex then as events unfold and how the officials in Ukraine are going to adhere to the Constitution and the laws. And now I'm putting to the vote the proposal to assign three profile committees to find out what matters in order of function for them, by them. foreordained by their functional responsibilities and to report to Parliament what is going on. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:43:02]] For 249 Decision taken. There's a break in 13 hours.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u26	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we've announced a recess until 1:00. Now we're going to talk about how we're going to move on, because we've announced a break in terms of what's going on with the National Security and Defence Council, it's still going on, it's still going on. I'd like to inform you, if that's true, because I wasn't at the National Security and Defence Council meeting, but the following words were made by the president from an Internet dating session: “Replying to the Prime Minister and the Government, I ask that the financing of the non-recurrent elections be ensured immediately and properly. I would like to ask at today's meeting of the Supreme Council to reflect this issue." I added Yushchenko. I mean, if that's true, I'm very glad that we finally came to a conclusion that comes out of the Constitution about the continuity of all organs of power, including the Supreme Council. Because the requirement of the Constitution that the powers of the Supreme Council may be suspended for a period of time relates to the term of activity, we are chosen for five years or earlier for four years, and the President can terminate the term of office not five years or not four years as before. But the Supreme Council, our powers cease at the first meeting of the newly elected Supreme Council. So it's good if it really fits the reality, even though in some respects we're going back to the Constitution. Here I have a request from two national deputies to give them an opportunity to speak. Please, Aunt Drought. Please. And then Sergey the Headman. I'll tell you what. The head of the Supreme Council participates because article 107 of the Constitution gives the head of the Supreme Council the right to be present at the meetings of the PNB, which is his own. Yes, the head of the Supreme Council is there. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u27	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. As you know, yesterday the women of the Ukrainian National Deputies, who represent the National Unity Coalition in Parliament, met with the President of Ukraine. We are assured by the President that he is ready to sit down at the table of talks with the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council and to take into account all the mistakes, on one hand and on the other, that have led to today's extremely difficult, if not worse, situation that has taken place in the state. At the end of the conversation, I thanked him as the leader of the group for the meeting and asked: “We have thousands of people waiting under the President’s secretariat. Can we publish our agreement?" After a brief pause, the guarantor said, “Yes, I confirm.” And to be perfectly honest, he said, “Don’t put me in bad light in front of the people and journalists.” That's what I released yesterday to the people's deputies and to our electorates. In the evening, the information service of the President’s secretariat stated that these were only the words of Drought. In that case, I also declare. I wasn't alone. We were 12 women national deputies of Ukraine. I don't know if it's the words of the press or the President's instructions to publish this very topic of our conversation. We went to him as Ukrainian national deputies. He spoke to us as a guarantor. After that, how can we believe in the truthfulness of the Bible’s oath in the constitutional acts of the guarantor? Now, once again, I've found out that there's one thing they say in that building, they do what they're comfortable with, and they don't have their own ideas at all, they live by ocean recipes. That is why we, women, Ukrainian national deputies, should not stop. We have to follow a democratic constitutional path if they don't know how or don't want to make a guarantor and his lying subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u28	Please, Sergey Petrovich Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u29	Your Honor, the presiding officer, the honourable fellow MPs. First. From more than reliable sources, I know that the President's secretariat has commissioned the Supreme Court of Ukraine to study the legal situation on which grounds people's deputies can be arrested today. The first of these deputies is the chairman of our Justice Committee, Mr. Kiwalov. I don't rule out being second on the list. Why don't I turn it off? Because I just read from the Internet that Mr. President said that failure to comply with his decree entails criminal responsibility. From the parliamentary rostrum, that is, from the rostrum of the people of Ukraine, I am addressing the President. I'm ready to be given your bonds, Mr. President Yushchenko. I am prepared to sit in prison today for refusing to comply with your criminal anticonstitutional decree. Don't touch the other deputies. I haven't stolen anything from this state in 20 years as a national deputy. I didn't steal anything like the minister of justice of Ukraine three times. I would like to see myself in yours, Mr. President Yushchenko of the Ukrainian prison as a former minister of justice. Please do this if it is your democracy, Mr. Yushchenko. And one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, calm down. You won't be arrested. If they're doing this scenario, they're going to arrest the key figures. But I think Yushchenko is going to stop at it, too. So I think we're waiting for the messages that the Ukrainian Security and Defence Council came to. We have to believe that the BSC, which is fully controlled by the President, will not be involved in the political process. I don't know what Mr. President meant when he said he didn't rule out the 93rd year of Moscow when Yeltsin's tanks were shooting at the Russian Parliament, but then I suggested to President Kuchmi that we make a deal with the Supreme Council so that there were no President Kuchma tanks and there were no shots at the Supreme Council and we had that agreement, we had a reconciliation. But you know, for today I'm willing to stay here under the ruins of concrete and glass, under the tanks of Yushchenk, but I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u30	Let me finish. Speak, Sergey Petrovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u31	But until the last minute of my life, if I stay here under Yushchenka's tanks, I'm ready to be here to protect the Ukrainian Constitution. Anything Yushchenko does today with his environment, with his Balogah, with his lawyers, with his supporters and those who are trying to provide him with legal, ideological and legal, perhaps even from the Supreme Court of Ukraine, I'm ready for that. For me, the most sacred is today's Ukrainian Constitution, which prevents him from doing anything against the Supreme Council and against us, the national MPs who represent the entire Ukrainian people here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u32	Thank you, Sergei Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I think our story is very clear, and it shows that if someone doesn't spend a little bit of time in prison, he has very little political perspective, so don't worry, don't worry too much, don't worry about it. Yes, yesterday at the meeting of the Supreme Council, when we heard Harry and I were with you about how the National Deputies had not been missed by the Administration, the Secretariat, the Office of the President, we gave the commission a temporary special commission for analysis. on the conduct of an analysis of the infringements. non-compliance with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. You know we have such a commission created and led by a national deputy, Hara. He informs that today the members of the commission have discussed the existing situation on the subject and have taken a decision and are ready to report to the Supreme Council at an evening meeting and requests that we put to the vote the issue of the inclusion in the agenda and consideration of the preliminary information of the Temporary Special Commission on the analysis of the status of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the issuance of Presidential Decree No.264-2007 of 2 April "On the timely authorization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine". I think we should support this proposal. I am voting for the inclusion in the agenda for the evening session of this information. Please vote. [[13:15:00]] For 247 Come on, get ready. Nothing, we're just gonna take the evening away. It's different. There'll be information. There'll be a chance. It'll be evening. Why not? Hara insists now. Who's to give that opportunity now, please vote. [[13:15:33]] For 246 Please, Hara to the rostrum. How long do you need? Huh? 12 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u33	Respectable colleagues and respectable voters! The Supreme Council commissioned our commission to submit its report by 1 July, you remember, 2007 after the preliminary report. But given the mandate of the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who made a request to the People's Deputies, you will be given a summary preliminary report. As a result of constitutional changes, our State has adopted a parliamentary and presidential form of government that is more democratic, which is used in most European countries. This creates some difficulties, of course, in the application of legislation, some of which require clarification. But the duties of the President as a guarantor of the Constitution have remained unchanged in our State to guarantee compliance with the Basic Law. Unfortunately, our commission has to note that President Yushchenko is not only not protecting the Constitution from violators, he has become the main violator of the Basic Law of the country. In accordance with the protocol mandate of 4 April, Adam Ivanovich, the Commission examined the situation of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by officials and authorities, and today at its meeting considered Presidential Decree No. 264 of 2007 on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which, contrary to the law, only in the Official Gazette of the President and notes the following. Part five of article 83 of the Ukrainian Constitution clearly defines the formation of a coalition. I quote: “a coalition of MP factions is formed on the basis of the reconciliation of political positions.” Part six of the same article makes it clear that “the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is formed within one month of the opening of the first Supreme Council of Ukraine.” A coalition has been formed to comply with this provision of the Constitution. Next. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 9, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 64 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, the President has nominated Victor Fedorović Yanukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine. In accordance with article 85, part 1, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, articles 114 and 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Prime Minister's candidature was approved and a coalition formed by the Government, demonstrating full compliance with the Constitution and full recognition of such actions by the President and society of Ukraine. Second. The attention of the President and his legal service should be drawn to the fact that article 83, paragraph 6, of the Constitution and article 61, part two, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules clearly stated that the coalition had been formed for a month, as had been done. Neither the Constitution nor the Rules define a further formation of a coalition throughout the process of convening a constitutional majority, 300 votes, which the President is so afraid of, nor does it prohibit members from joining the coalition. In this context, the formation of a coalition was in full conformity with the Constitution, i.e. it was created by factions in one month. The Commission wishes to note and draw the attention of the President of Ukraine to such concepts as formation, article 61 of the Rules, and to the activities of the coalition, article 63 of the Rules. I have not hesitated to draw your attention to the activities of the coalition, since article 63 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine defines the organization of the coalition, in particular Part 4 of this article defines “other matters of organization of the coalition are defined by a coalition agreement”. Our coalition agreement makes clear that it is possible to participate in the coalition of all parliamentary MPs and individual members of the Supreme Council. On the basis of the Constitution and the Rules, the reasons given by the President in his decree cannot be the reason for the dissolution of Parliament. Third. As far as discharge is concerned. Article 90 of the Constitution clearly defines only 3 reasons for the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council. I want to make this clear, these are all three reasons, as if they were united in one condition: the failure of the Supreme Council to continue its activities, and they are divided into three specific reasons. The first, if within 1 month, I emphasize that a coalition of MP factions has not been formed in the Supreme Council for 1 month. Second, unless a personal composition of the Cabinet of Ministers has been established for 60 days. Third, if a regular plenary session cannot begin for 30 days. All of it. That's the point. The Presidential Decree contains all possible paragraphs and articles of the Constitution other than the main one, which only gives the President the right to decide on three grounds under article 90 of the Constitution. I must recall that part three of article 8 of the Constitution stipulates that the rules of the Constitution are rules of direct action. Thus, the decree does not respect any provision of the Constitution, either direct or indirect, which could be subject to it. And a few words about another, following the regulations of the authorities, the members of the Commission note the continued violation by the President of the basic law after our first discussion, of the information of our commission. Following our preliminary report on 23 February at the meeting of the Supreme Council, the Head of State continues to practice violations, in particular by the Acting Head of Local Administrations, which is not only provided for by the Constitution or by laws, but is the prerogative of official instructions. Second. Designate and dismiss the heads of local public administrations without introducing the Cabinet of Ministers, as required by the fifth part of article 118 of the Constitution. Third. The President issued decrees referring to his powers as President of the National Security and Defence Council, referring to the relevant laws and failing to comply with them. The vast majority of decrees issued in violation of the Constitution are not dealt with by the National Security and Defence Council, as required by article 107 of the Constitution and article 4 of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act. Fourth. The President of the Counter-Terrorism Procedure is not following, which is clearly provided for in article 106, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, by referring to the limitation of his powers. Of the thirty-one paragraph of the said article, only four paragraphs regulate the consolidation of the President's act by the signature of the Prime Minister and the responsible minister. But the President does not want to do so, even though he himself is not tired of recalling his veto to the laws of Ukraine and does not consider this limitation of parliamentary powers. Fifth. The fibula continues with the creation of decrees of recognition for those who have lost their power by the President, who have approved ministerial provisions and so on, in accordance with the amendment to the Constitution. This must be done deliberately to make the work of the ministries more difficult. Sixth. By decrees it unlawfully ceases to apply the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This irregularity is even confirmed by the fact that, after a while, the President repeals such decrees and orders of the Cabinet of Ministers continue to operate. Seven. By its decrees, the President entrusts the Government, which has a significant impact on the expenditure portion of the budget, without referring to the addition of the Prime Minister's signatures. Thus, he deliberately exposes the Cabinet of Ministers to possible violations if they do not comply with the decree or violate the law. in the budget, or the decree. Eighth. I would also like to mention the disregard by the President of section 9 of article 118 of the Constitution on the resignation of heads of the boards, to whom two thirds of the regional councils have expressed mistrust. The Constitution clearly stipulates that the President will then make a mandatory decision on the resignation of the Governor. But our President's decision by the Supreme Administrative Court is not an order. The Governor of Kharkiv is still in the mercy of the Head of State. Ninth. As the President continues to enjoy the practice of violating the Constitution and judicial decisions, I would like to point out the staffing problem of the Kiev Regional Administration for the restoration of Yevgenia Jovtjak. Having called on the Supreme Court of Ukraine for a show led by a representative, the President of the Democratic Force itself, Timoshenko, the President of the second month simply mocks the judicial system of Ukraine despite the fact that 256 articles of the Code of Administrative Procedure clearly provide for the immediate reinstatement of public office. Returning to today's priority issues created by the President and his company, we want to focus on the following. The Commission draws attention to the possible further illegal acts of gross violations of the Constitutions in the Presidential Secretariat regarding their desire to finance elections from any other sources from reserve sources, including the funds of local councils. Part two of article 95 of the Ukrainian Constitution states: “only the law on the State budget of Ukraine defines any expenditure incurred by the State for the immediate social needs, size and purpose of directing these expenses.” Otherwise, the violation of this rule would be assessed as bribery and pressure on the Central Electoral Commission, which provided for criminal liability. Following the foregoing, the Commission contends that Presidential Decree No. 267-2,007 of 2 April 2007 on the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's powers does not comply with the Constitution, it is criminal, it is leading to the dissolution of the country. In accordance with articles 19 and 60 of the Constitution, Ukraine is not subject to implementation. In our view, the Supreme Council must oblige the relevant public authorities to apply the measures to violators of the Constitution and the laws set forth in article 60 of the Constitution, which stipulates that the law must be applied for the issuance and enforcement of a manifestly criminal order or order. And the last. I've already made this wish in the square in Maidan, and I want to say it today. Dear colleagues, as a representative of Donbass, the landlord of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, I cannot understand why the Cabinet of Ministers and Victor Fedorovich are being overly liberal with those who violate the laws and violate the Constitution. The Cabinet of Ministers is the supreme executive branch, the people who have come to the square to support the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers is simply obliged, and we must offer it to do everything possible to protect the people in the cities of Kiev and throughout our country. And we must offer the Cabinet of Ministers to take appropriate strict measures to ensure order in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u34	Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's take this information to the public and assign it, ask the commission to continue monitoring, that is, to do what we have created this temporary investigation commission to watch it abide by the laws and the Constitution by all the authorities of the state in Ukraine, not to do so unilaterally, but by all the authorities of the state. Melniczuk, please, microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u35	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. In my opinion, the time has come, Adam Ivanovich, I am addressing you, perhaps we would consider the Law on Temporary Commissions of Inquiry. If the committees were to work in accordance with the law, Mr. President would be invited to the commission today to clarify these actions by the Administration, its subordinates, and himself. But since we have a temporary commission of inquiry, only or temporary commissions have the authority to inform the Supreme Council, and we are to accept it as known, it is certainly the reaction of those officials who violate the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. For that matter, I would like to know your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u36	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. You must have been a little absent by the time the Supreme Council, knowing your proposal, made a decision and the law was already on the President's signature. We've been over this, I think, two weeks ago, it's a question. So the Law on the Temporary Commissions Investigators is aimed at signing the President. Yes, dear fellows, let's take some of the questions that we have before the break, and then we'll consult on how to do it. The head of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations, Mr. Grac Leonid Ivanovich, is very much asking. We will now consider, in our second reading, Bill 0956, the draft Law on the Basic Principles of the National Migration Policy of Ukraine. Please, Leonid Ivanovich. No objections? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u37	Dear colleagues, on second reading, it is proposed that the law is multifaceted. First, it has been developed for more than four years now, from one composition of the Supreme Council to another. A law to which no less than 50 to 60 amendments are made each time. The Act, which has led to a lack of perception, a reasoned lack of acceptance by both the Cabinet of Ministers and the Scientific and Expert Office, has long since been obsolete since the adoption of a number of legislation, including ratification of international agreements. Therefore, in order not to break a copy and then not sew anything else off, it is proposed that the law be bent over and passed for the drafting of a new bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u38	Do you understand the offer? Who is in favour of adopting the Decree rejecting the Act on the Basic Principles of State Migration Policy of Ukraine, registration number 0956, please vote. [[13:32:18]] For 245 Decision taken, bill rejected. The question of the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, Kinakh Anatoli Kirilovich, is being considered. Chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u39	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! At its meeting on April 4, the committee reviewed and supported the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Kinakh Anatoli Kirilovich, regarding his appointment as Ukraine’s economic minister. On the basis of the first part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 4 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People’s Deputy Committee, the Committee decided to support the application and made an appropriate draft decree to terminate the Ukrainian People’s Deputy Kinakh Anatoli Kirilovich, project number 3438. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u40	Thank you. Are there any questions? You don't? I then put to the vote decree number 3438 on the permanent suspension of the power of Ukrainian national deputy Kinakh Anatoli Kirilovich. Please vote. [[13:33:57]] For the 250. Thank you. On a question from the hall, "Do you have to?" - should. This is the requirement of the Constitution, this is the requirement of the relevant articles of the Constitution, and let's thank Anatoly Kirilovich, who was the deputy of all the appeals, starting with the first, and we wish him a successful work in the Cabinet of Ministers, which was formed by the Fifth Council Coalition. The issue of amendments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order "On the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization" is being considered. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u41	The committee considered a statement by Ukrainian National Deputy Voloshenko Dmitr Borisovich, a member of the Party of the Regions' MP for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. The calculated quota of the regional party’s parliamentary faction at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information has not been used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the national deputy Voloshenko and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please support the draft decree number 3439.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, is there a question for the committee head? None. Then I put to the vote Order 3439 – to select Voloshenko Dmitr Borisovich – the Ukrainian national deputy from the multi-mandatory national constituency of the Party of the Regions, the faction of the Party of the Regions as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. Vote. [[13:36:03]] For 239. A decision has been made. Please come in, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u43	The committee reviewed the statement by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Soltus Pavel Stanislavovich, a member of the Party of the Regions' MP for election as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, construction, housing and utility. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions' parliamentary faction at the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on construction, construction and housing is not fully used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the Ukrainian national deputy, Soltus, and to make an offer for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the draft decree number 3437.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u44	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Then I put to the vote the order number 3437 to elect Soltus Pavel Stanislavovich, Ukrainian National Deputy from the multi-mandatory constituency constituency of the Party of Regions as a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing. [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] Please be supportive. [[13:37:20]] For 246 A decision has been made. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u45	Draft decision on the approval of the manager.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u46	Oh, right. I mean, according to the deputies, we're done with the last question. The issue of the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism is now under consideration. Here we have two draft decrees: 3329 and 3329-1 in exchange, although we have voted once before on this draft regulation 22.03. Yes, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u47	Adam Ivanovich, there is another suggestion. At our previous meeting of the Supreme Council, we decided to postpone consideration of the matter in view of the fact that there was no proposal agreed upon with the factions. Today, those factions working in the Supreme Council have agreed to run for office by the chairman of this committee and have proposed the position of Volková Alexander Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u48	Dear colleagues, is there such a question to the committee head? In fact, when we discussed this issue with you on March 22nd, we did not support the decision number 3329 to select Andriy Vasilovich as chairman of the committee and postpone consideration of this issue to reconcile proposals. After the proposals were agreed, the faction was reached that, since this quota was behind those political forces that are currently in opposition, and Volkov's colleague, who is today the first deputy head of this committee elected to the Supreme Council by the lists of “Our Ukraine”, would logically leave this position behind those political forces that have declared that they are in opposition. It's on the one side. And secondly, I don't think it's necessary for any of us to characterize it, it's a person who knows the whole world that has given us world glory in the kind of sport that we've been in. Experience is, he was, at his own time, even a minister in sports and is now serving as the first deputy. If there is no objection, dear colleagues, then I would like to suggest that you choose Volková Alexander Anatoliyevich, Ukrainian National Deputy from the multi-mandate constituency constituency of the “Our Ukraine” Party Block, head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, by releasing him from the duties of the first deputy head of this committee. Please vote. [[13:40:55]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Let's welcome Comrade Volkov. Yes, dear colleagues, let us turn to the questions of second reading, second reading. Is there a cook, Igor Teodorovitch? Yes. Please, Deputy Head of the Legal Policy Committee, Mr. Igor Teodorovich. Bill No. 2241, Draft Law amending article 75 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct, is under consideration. Please, Igor Teodorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Committee on Legal Policy considered the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 75 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct, registration No. 2241, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of its second reading. In preparing this bill for second reading, the committee took into account the proposals made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and all the amendments made by the legislators to them and our opinion would reduce the likelihood of abuse by the authorities of the state executive and the executive service when the property was confiscated. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill amending article 75 of the Ukrainian Act "On Performing Conduct", registration number 2241, second reading and as a whole. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u50	Yes, respectable colleagues, all the adjustments, these are the Incorruptible People’s Deputies, the Bespalites, the Cosmackins, and the Bespalus, counted. What will be the suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u51	We've taken everything into account, Adam Ivanovich, except there, little bits of editorial nuances that happened.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u52	So what is the Justice Department supposed to say about this? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u53	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. [[off]] That's one thing. And the second. People's detute. End. action, that's the last part. For more An appropriate decision is made indicating the sale of the amount by which the trading organization was sold. The proposal is not to make a separate decision, but to mention all of this information in the executive documents, in the executive letter, in the back. The procedure provides for this, stating which trading organization sold the confiscated property, the amount of which to return the executive letter with the appropriate markings to the court that ordered the confiscation of the property. We agreed with the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, and Minust sent a letter, and this issue was agreed upon in the working order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u54	Right. Please, Igor Theodoreovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u55	I think that since these are precise points, Minust’s proposals can be taken fully into account in this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I think, really, the Deputy Minister Inn Ivanovn is right about when he says, well, after utilization, there's still something left, and then there's profit, and there's free transfer, that's to make a profit, that's to say that it's logical not to count. It's the same thing as the other one. I'll put it to a vote. Who is responsible for taking into account the third amendment made by Bespalopheus’s colleague to article 75, excluding the subitems referred to by the deputy minister? Please vote. Excluding the sub-items mentioned in the report from the Ministry of Justice. Vote. [[13:46:59]] For 240 The amendment adopted by Bespalogo based on what excluded those paragraphs 2. No other comments, no objections? Then I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending article 75 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct, registration number 2241, taking into account the amendment that we have voted with you. Please vote. [[13:47:43]] For 251 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending article 72 of the Law on Sudokustura is under consideration. Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich, head of the Committee on Justice. Is it? None. Then let's see, with your permission. So, the first amendment of a colleague of Seminomies that was rejected doesn't insist, please, because it doesn't work. Same thing, his second amendment. And the third amendment of Klukkowski's colleague. The fourth is Seminog. Everything else is accounted for. What will be the offer, no one insists? The Justice Department, what? Is there no point to Bill 2552?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u57	No comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u58	You don't?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u59	No comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u60	None. The truth is that we're surrounded by comments from the General Legal Department. Let me see. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose, as far as the General Legal Directorate is concerned, let's postpone this consideration, and there's no report from the committee. If he shows up, we'll come back. What the committee's reaction is not to us. Then we are taking the matter to heart. Let's see when we see when that's the case. Maybe today. There'll be a reporter, a committee's opinion. Bill No. 2408 of the draft Act amending article 321 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the establishment of responsibility for the illicit production, manufacture, purchase, transport, transfer, storage for the purpose of sale or the sale of toxic and powerful medical devices]] Member of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Malisev Vladimir Stepanovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished media representatives, respected Ukrainian citizens. On March 23, this year, draft law, No. 2408, amending article 321 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine was adopted in the first reading. [[establishing responsibility for illegal acts in relation to toxic or powerful medical devices]] I'm sure this is the first step that has been taken to stop the trauma epidemic. I agree with my colleagues ’ conclusion that the existing penalty for committing such a crime is too soft, and irresponsibility breeds the desire to illegally sell and sell a trampoline. There is an urgent need to increase responsibility for the illegal sale of this medical procedure. Taking into account the proposal made by Mr. Billowol, my colleague, Mr. Matthew, and, above all, the request of tens of thousands of people regarding the need for a clearer and more severe criminal responsibility regarding those involved in the illicit production and implementation of toxic drugs, I have developed additions to article 321 of the Criminal Code in order to establish a more severe responsibility. Yes, in the first part of article 321 the fine is increased from 50 to 100 untaxed minimum citizens’ income. In part two, the term “freedom ” has been increased to three years. Article 321 is also supplemented by parts three and four, where the responsibility for the illegal sale of a tramway has been reestablished by a previous contract with a group of individuals organized by a group or in large and particularly large sizes, where the responsibility for the removal of the will has been properly established from three to five years and from five to ten years. The profile committee was fully supported by the additions I had offered. I want to thank the head and members of the committee for their courage and humanity for taking part in the committee meeting. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u62	Thank you. Dear colleagues, here was an amendment by a colleague of Malishev, who had already reported it, argued. There were no other amendments. We need to vote for a change in the name of the law. It is proposed to refer to the Ukrainian Act amending the Criminal Code to establish responsibility for illegal acts in relation to toxic or highly active medical devices. Please vote. [[13:53:39]] For the 250. Copy that. They changed their name. I am now voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to establish responsibility for illegal acts relating to toxic or highly active medical devices. Please vote. [[13:54:14]] For 251 Thank you, the law has been passed. Thank you, Volodymyr Stepanovich, sit down, please. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2090, is under consideration. [[on the conservation of children's out-of-school institutions]] Who is it from the Science Committee, you might say. Here's Samilick's reporter. Amendments to two. Ambulance one, accounted for. I'm a colleague of MacKeenko's. He suggests saying, "This law takes effect from January 1st." The committee turned it down. Since January 1, 2008, the committee has rejected. I'll take a look, dear colleagues. Dear colleagues! Let's do it this way. I looked, I think we'll do the right thing if we support the amendment of colleague MacKeenko, head of the budget committee. Since this has a bearing on the State budget, according to the Budget Code and the Rules, we should enforce similar laws only from the following financial year. So I'm putting to the vote, please support, the amendment of colleague McKeenka that this law takes effect from January 1st, 2008. Vote. [[13:56:30.]] For 252 Thank you, copy. And I'm voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending some of Ukraine's laws regarding the preservation of children's out-of-school institutions, taking into account the amendment that we've already adopted. [[Registration number 2090]] Vote. [[13:57:04]] For 251 The Law was passed with its entry into force on January 1, 2008. The next law we have is the bill on the State Property Fund, registration number 1190. But here we have a letter from John Boko, and let me introduce you to him: “I, as a drafter of the bill and other national deputies of Ukraine, was sent before a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a proposal for Bill 1190 on the Fund of State Property of Ukraine. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Chief Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not yet considered proposals. According to part two of article 113 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, if for one reason or another not all of the proposals included in the comparative table are prepared and an additional comparative table is provided by the Main Committee. An additional comparative table is not prepared by the Main Committee and is not distributed in the Hall. In view of what has been said, I would like to postpone the draft and oblige the Main Committee to prepare and submit an additional comparative table to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account the proposals made by me and other Ukrainian national deputies. Dear colleagues, it's a bad law. We're going back to him. It's hard for me to count how many times. I can't understand, unfortunately, I don't see the head of the profile committee, but I'm sure. but not sure, but according to the Rules, John Sidorovich Boki is absolutely right when he comes to us with such an offer. So I'm putting to the vote the proposal that we postpone consideration of the law and have the committee prepare it as required by this Rules. I'll put it to the vote. Vote. [[13:59:27]] For 252 Thank you. The consideration of the matter has been carried over with the mandate of the profile committee to prepare it in accordance with the requirements of the Rules in order to prepare an additional comparative table on those amendments and additions that have not been included in the basic table. The draft Law amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization is under consideration. Registration number 2351. Chechtov will report to Mikhail Vasilovich, please. While Mikhailo Vasilovich is coming, dear colleagues, I suggest we work a little longer. Then I will explain what this is all about. Is there no objection? Working, working, not long. Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Your consideration is based on the second reading of Law No. 2351. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Privatisation Laws of Ukraine by People's Deputies Bondar, Kožemakini proposes to amend Ukraine's laws on privatization of small state enterprises, small privatization, privatization of state property and an active State privatization programme. In particular, the project proposes to prohibit privatization authorities from establishing additional conditions for buyers to participate in auctions and competitions, and to transfer the right to approve the qualification requirements for open-trade participants from the State Property Fund of Ukraine to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The project is proposed to be supported because it improves the legal regulation of privatization processes, gives them greater transparency, expands the range of potential investors, resulting in a possible increase in the cost of privatization. The Committee on Economic Policy proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a bill of amendments to some Ukrainian laws on privatization in general, as no comments have been made, no proposals for second reading to the committee have been made. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u64	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have heard from the report that the bill that we adopted in the first reading remained unchanged, for the national deputies and other legislators did not make any suggestions. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending certain Ukrainian laws on privatization, registration number 2351. Please vote. [[14:02:23]] For 203 For the faction, please. Region Party – 177, Block Timoshenko – 4, Our Ukraine – 1, Socialists – 2, Communists -13, non-fractional – 6. Clearly, respectable colleagues do. Who's for coming back to the hearing, please make up your mind. [[14:03:02]] For 213 Thus, respectable colleagues, the law is rejected. The draft Law on Basic Principles for State Control of Business in Ukraine, registration number 0932, is under consideration. [[second reading]] Reports the head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Matvienkov Sergei Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u65	Dear People's Deputies, a comparative table of the draft law “On Basic Principles of State Control, Supervision of Business Activities in Ukraine”, prepared for second reading by the Ukrainian People's Deputies as members of the Industrial and Regulatory Policy Committee, is presented to you. The bill was introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in February 2003. Adopted on first reading and at the end of December 2005, we are considering it on second reading today. In view of the long period of consideration of the bill, I would like to recall that the purpose of the draft law is to regulate and supervise the activities of economic operators. The drafting of the bill was due to an unsatisfactory situation that had arisen in the field of State control. The existing system of checks inhibits business development in the country and reduces its competitiveness and leads to abuse by the supervisory authorities. In Ukraine, verifications are massive. Nearly 96 per cent of all economic actors are audited annually, while on average, we will say that the number of European States is up to 20-30 per cent. The audit system results in inefficient use of budgetary resources, disregarding the risk of enterprises to public security and compliance by operators with the legislative requirements. I would like to express my gratitude to the Ukrainian people's deputies for actively participating in the drafting of the bill, which introduced 377 amendments and proposals, most of which have been taken into account. This number of amendments is due primarily to the need to take into account the changes in existing legislation on control of economic activities that have taken place since the introduction of the bill. The second reading bill took into account proposals from ministries and agencies, enterprises, business associations, public organizations and international organizations that had actively participated in the drafting of the bill. A number of round tables and hearings were held by the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue. As a result, this bill has been introduced into the room, which reflects international audit practices, namely the introduction of risk management, which ensures the most effective allocation of resources. The bill sets out the basic principles for carrying out planned and non-planned checks, and sets out the basics. Grounds for unscheduled checks to reduce the security of inspections. The Committee believes that reform of the State control system will ensure a balance between the interests of the State and business and improve the investment climate. Therefore, I ask that this bill be adopted so that we can bring forth, let us say so, according to the legal field, the work is in terms of business and the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u66	Yes, thank you. Valentina Petrovna, dear. Let them come to you, don't go to them, let the women come to you boys. I see. Anatoly. Sergei Anatolyovich, I'm sorry. There are many comments from the General Legal Office, and they even suggest that it be rereaded. What can the committee say about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u67	Adam Ivanovich, we have worked with the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration on several occasions. The point is that this bill is, let us say, a framework and a basic one, which in fact creates a clear structure and methodology for the organization of checks in our country today. This is the problem that has existed for many years: business is the verification structures. We have also established existing legal frameworks, unfortunately to date, that place the product manufacturer and the controlling body in absolutely unequal conditions. Therefore, the comments raised by the Legal Office were precisely related to the existence of this contradiction. Of course, the existing legislation is on the side of the supervisory authorities today. I have a huge request to pass this law, generally as a law, to give way to life. Because, once again, we held dozens of round tables, held dozens of meetings, met with the monitoring bodies, we took into account the comments of all the public bodies involved in serious inspections, including the Antimonopoly Committee, a number of other inspection bodies. We cleaned it up and cleaned it up. But there is a request from both small and medium-sized businesses and from. request producers to give way or life to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u68	Thank you. You were very persuasive. Wait. Dear colleagues! Which one of you made the amendments they rejected, do you insist? There's no such thing. Then I put to the vote, taking into account the convincing evidence of the head of the committee, of the adoption as a whole as a law of the Law on Basic Principles for State Control of Economic Activity in Ukraine. Registration number 0932. Please vote. [[14:09:16]] For 248 The law is passed. Thank you. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act is under consideration. [[on the formation and approval of prices, tariffs]] Registration number 2197, second reading. Member of the Committee on Construction, Construction of Housing and Utilities Demchisin Vasil Vasilovich. Is it, Vasil Vasilovich? Who's from the committee? The head of the committee in the field, as they say. Okay, let's take a look. What's more, it's a bill that we broke quite a lot of spears around, and here you know there was a lot of "Yaroslava's pay" and an effort to help voters. Now, I see they don't care. Then let's look at the revisions. We're going to look at the amendments, and we're going to go after the amendments, and we're going to determine, as far as the bill is concerned, quite ambiguous. Yes, amendment number one. Please take the bill, registration number 2197. Amendment number one, Turkinov, accounted for. Now. Change the name of the law amending certain laws regarding formation. And we had a different place here. Do you insist that this amendment was made? Please, I'm putting Amendment No. 1 to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:11:26]] For-25 Not counted. Yes. Amendment No. 2 People's Deputy Bodnar Olga. It's counted. Do they insist on voting? I'm voting on Amendment 2. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:11:58]] For two. Not counted. The third amendment of the Incorruptible is rejected. Don't insist. The fourth Qibidi is accounted for. Don't you insist on confirmation? Yes. The fifth Qibidi is accounted for. Don't insist. A Turk, a sixth. They insist. I'm voting on the 6th amendment of the Turkinov. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:12:36]] For 1 Yes. Kubida 7 is rejected. Don't insist. 8 Kubidi counts. Don't insist. Kuibida, 9 is edited. They don't insist on voting. 10 The Turk’s Accounting Is Editorial. Vote? The 10th Amendment of the Turkish Republic shall be put to the vote. I'd like to make up my mind. [[14:13:15]] For-0 Not supported, 0 votes. Yeah. We'll be right there. We're at 10? Please, Suhi, 10 please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich and his honourable colleagues, as the drafter of the bill, I ask you, as one MP once said, please remove this bill now and do not consider it. We're breaking the bill. I don't understand what you're doing. At 10th, the 10th amendment by the Turkish Committee. There is no committee representative. On the other hand, it was written: From January 1, 2008. Why should this correction be thrown out? The same was the offer of communists and it was a socialist proposal to reduce the threshold of subsidiarity from 20 to 15, but not immediately, but in a year. There's no Demchisen -- the reporter, don't look at this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u70	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u71	Adam Ivanovich, I support the author of this bill, who has submitted it for first reading by the Supreme Council. And I also want to confirm that from this rostrum and I have been speaking, and our colleagues, members of the Communist faction, and we have insisted that we set a standard for total revenue not to exceed 15 percent, not 20 percent, as suggested in the first reading. So if there's such differences and there's no main reporter, that's a representative of the profiling committee, we've asked that we stop this bill now and move it to the next plenary week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u72	What do the two factions think of socialists? Please, Kuzmenko, then Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u73	Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The faction supports the proposal to postpone the bill and I personally ask that it be moved. Because I have made five amendments, they are given in the time limit set by the Rules. But the committee couldn't see them. I know that there are five other deputies whose amendments have not been considered. So I am very much asking you to postpone the consideration of the bill, the committee to go back to the amendments that have not been considered and to consider this bill in the next plenary week in a re- or in a second reading but have been finalized.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u74	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u75	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, it is a very important bill. And we don't just need to adopt a bill and they say put a twig in it, but we need to adopt a bill in a way that would help our citizens first. That's why I support the proposal and the communists and the factions of the Socialists to pass this bill on to the next week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u76	Dear colleagues, what do you think is left in this case for the presiding officer? Put your proposal to the vote better. Okay. I'm voting on the proposal to postpone the second reading of the bill to 2197 on amendments to the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act due to the absence of a reporter and a head of the Professional Committee. Please vote. [[14:17:28]] For 241 We've moved on. Dear colleagues, we should have considered, and the members of the Conciliation Council, you remember how they insisted on this to consider the draft Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising of Ukraine. [[on the promotion of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages]] Registration number 1044. We brought him to the Conciliation Council following the insistence of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Tomenka to consider the meetings. But a letter came from the head of the committee, Andrew Shevchenk. In connection with the official delegation of the committee invited to Estonia by the OSCE, we ask that the draft law prepared for the second reading be placed on the agenda of the day 17-20 April 2007. [[1044]] Since there is no comparative table, and there is such a request from the committee, I am voting for a motion to postpone the review of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Advertising, registration number 1044. [[on advertising for tobacco products and alcoholic beverages]] Please vote. [[14:19:01]] For 248 Transferred. Dear colleagues! During the first part of our morning session, you and I gave the task of dealing with the situation surrounding the Pecher Court. We will then listen to the final information of the committee heads entrusted to us. But my colleague Miroshnichenko Yuri. Where is he? Is Baldwin ready to report? Please inform us about what is going on there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I had to witness a few minutes ago the whole shameful phenomenon of our political life today. Mr. Valery Golotey, Head of the Office of the President's Administration, Mr. Gennady Moskal, Vice-President of the Ukrainian Security Service, as well as Deputy Deputy of the Yulia Unit, Timoshenko Andrey Portnow, explained to the alleged victim, the Vice-President of the Court, who had been given an unlawful order to serve as interim judge, explained what she should do, what to say and how to testify in order to mislead the investigation. The fact is that all the people's deputies who were present in the court building and saw and saw this lady can testify that there were no mammals, bruises, scratches on the open body, and she had a normal, very beautiful haircut. The clothes were all over her. Her claim, therefore, that the President of the Court of Koleschenko had allegedly been deprived of her seal by force and had caused her some bodily harm, was clearly fabricated. And here Mr. Moskal and Mr. Galateev, during the half-hours behind closed doors with Mr. Portnov, apparently formatted this man, explained to him how he should behave, how he should give evidence, how he should act with the press in order to support this false version of the force of the press. Fortunately, when the cabinet was opened and the media was filming events on video, it was evident that Mr. Moskal was nervous, as he was clearly lying, justifying his presence in the Pecher Court Hall by allegedly coming to remove the Alpha unit from there, which he had not, as he stressed. But logic requires that the person who came to remove the Alphas from the courthouse leave the court building as soon as he finds out that this unit is not in the courtroom. Why was it necessary to lock up with this lady and other participants in this unworthy act, and what were they talking about? Perhaps they put pressure on the woman, perhaps instructing her. In general, I propose to set up an investigative commission, to require the media to contact the Attorney-General's Office to investigate the incident and to detect the gross interference of the Presidential branch of government, the Administration, the Registry of the President and the Ukrainian Security Service in a generally sensitive judicial case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u78	Thank you. Yes, Yuri Miroshnichenko, please. Not a little disciplined.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u79	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. As you recall, at our morning meeting today’s leaders and representatives of the three committees of profile were given the commission to go to the Cave Court and find out on the spot the following report to the Supreme Council on the events and circumstances that were in this Cave Court. [[One of these committees, namely the Justice Committee, I am the head of the subcommittee.]] I've been there myself. I'd like to divide my performance into two parts. The first is the facts, and then the evaluation. What is the fact? The fact is that this morning the decisions of the three judges of the Pecher Court were annulled, and more precisely the two Presidential decrees were suspended, where the decision of Mr. Kolesnichenko’s court was depriving him of his authority and the appointment of another person to preside over the court. [[I emphasize, not one, but three colleges.]] After considering the matter, it was issued with the approval that actually renewed Mr. Kolesnick’s authority. As the head of the court, he received a stamp and key from the relevant employee and proceeded to exercise his authority. After that, it begins, not with the facts, but with the interpretation of certain facts. Some time later, it appears that Mr. Kolesnichenko took the keys and stamped them with force, beating up the assistant performing the duties of head of the court. As a response to this information, there were people’s deputies there, including me, and we tried to understand the circumstances there. I'll be honest with you, version two. Mr. Koleschenko claims that he came to this assistant without any arguments, no offense, the more beating, took the seal and went to his office to work. The other side that was represented in front of journalists was not alone, so - called, but the director, in a very emotional way, went to the press, keeping her close to her, actually said everything that was going on there. That is, beatings, such as forced force, breaking hands, and so forth. Then came the investigation team, and the prosecutor of the Shevchenkov district, located in the area of the Cave Court of Kiev. I was present personally while they were taking a witness with this girl, whom they already call the victim. I testify to you without emotion or attitude. What did she really say? That's right. She said that Mr. Koleschenko had entered her office, not alone, but accompanied by national deputies and guards. We asked Koleschenka whether it was so or not. He says that I entered alone, without any national MPs, and no more protection. Since he received protection after lunch. The other one. She claims to have been pushed. I said, "Please tell me, did you get beat up?" She sat on the chair and was pushed. He says I'm the one who got pushed in the chest. I ask her if you were beaten, or were you pushed? It's an important thing. She says, no, it's not beating, it's pushing, but I feel pain. I'm asking, what was it like, a hand or a fist? This is also an important circumstance. Because if it was a fist, it wasn't pushed. No, it's the palm of my hand. Next, he says, after that, my hands were twisted. Please tell me how this was done. That's important information, because there's going to be a lot of interpretations. I was held by my hands, and they rolled and scratched me like that. So when I invited her, please show me if she couldn't show you where your scratches were. Then, when she said that she had come to the window, she wanted to ask for protection, and again, with force, there was some obstacle. I ask, “How?” She says, “Well, they held me by the waist and feet.” I mean, was that a beating? Do you understand? That's what I heard on my own ears. Now, dear fellows, what happened after that? And to me, let's say that we could probably be doing some grades now, because, well, that's what my colleague, Mr. Baldwin, was talking about. Then came the President’s representatives, namely Mr. Galatei, who heads the Office for the Coordination of Law Enforcement Authorities, the President’s Secretariat. Next, the Deputy Head of the SBU, Mr. Moskal, the representative of BUTU, Mr. Portnov, entered the office, closed up, and for a long time were together with this judge performing duties and this so - called victim in a closed, reportedly cabinet. The MPs interpreted the situation because on my question of whether the deputies representing the committees at the commission could have gone there and were actually obliged to deal with the situation, they told me that, and in fact, I had witnessed it myself, that the cabinet was closed to the key. None of the Supreme Council's representatives.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u80	Yuri Romanovich, that's what I'm going to ask. If you don't mind, take a seat, because I have to be on television in 20 minutes, live. So I'm going to tell you what I have to tell you now, and then you're going to continue your information. I just came from the Security and Defence Council meeting, where I was a member of the Supreme Council, which under the Constitution has the right to be there, despite being expelled from the Security Council. In fact, you can talk about the decision, just the content of the decision, it was prepared in advance, you know, the argument was, repeated the President's decree. At my suggestion, political evaluations have been thrown out of the founding part and assessments of the unconstitutionality of Parliament's action have also been ruled out, because it is not a function of the Security Council to evaluate the work of Parliament. Finally, the decision is to assign those responsible for the organization of elections to do what is prescribed by the election law. The argument in the course of this discussion, my argument that the 90th article was not for that, the 90th article, was that re-elections are held when parliament is unable to work. I wrote these articles myself, and I know how it was prepared. And all these reasons that the President is supposed to refer to are there, but he doesn't refer to them, because it was all within the Constitution. The observation that the coalition is being misformed when only one of the norms of the 87th article is being read, and the last rule is not being read, which says that the coalition is being created on the basis of the Constitution and the Supreme Council Rules, and in the Reglament adopted by the previous Parliament, it is being written that personal entry into the coalition is envisaged. And even though we are willing to keep this rule of the Rules, to review, maybe without an imperative mandate, we can only form a coalition on a fractional basis, because it's not about that. But everyone understands that most votes are not guaranteed by coalition membership or not, because even a coalition sometimes votes differently, not unanimously, because there are different political views about one situation or another. This was not counted and the vote took place. The representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, Mikola Janović Azarov, Vasil Petrovich Cuzko, were voted against, and the rest were voted on. I concluded by saying that I understand perfectly that everyone knows the point of the matter. And they know that six months or later, if all of this were to be done, they would regret having participated in this, so to speak, operation. But they made decisions like they did. On my question to my head of the Central Election Commission regarding the telegrams, regarding the possibilities of implementing what is envisaged there, regarding the possibility of presenting lists on the District Commission, when you receive a telegram at 10 a.m., and at 24.00 a.m., the registration is complete. It's a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a year and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half and a half, when we don't And that means that they could only make their proposals to the political powers that knew in advance that it would be done, that under any circumstances the decree would be issued. And, indeed, at about fifteen o'clock in the morning, "Our Ukraine" filed its list with the District Commissions, and "Julia Timoshenko's Block" a little earlier. Thus the elections will be held if they pass, - I believe they will not be, because the Constitutional Court has to say its word - it will be controlled solely by two political forces. You know traditions in Ukraine that weigh a lot, who counts the votes. I don't think we need to explain that. True, I'm surprised how "Our Ukraine" as a subject represented in Parliament could have made its own proposals when one of the parties - Industrialists and Entrepreneurs - is not already there, it went out there and its seals are not there, how they could have made their proposals, I don't know. Perhaps there will be only one BUTT to control all elections. That's also possible. But anyway, I think our position is absolutely justified and we have to work out a legal solution to this issue. The Constitutional Court must give its word. And I believe that justice will surely prevail. I'm sorry, I'm just gonna go, if you guys move on, I'll come back and then I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u81	Please finish Miroshnichenko. But more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! I also continue to speak about the events at the Cave Court in Kiev. As my colleague, Mr. Baldiriev, spoke after, on the facts, after such a closed conversation with the so-called victim of three representatives, and these were representatives of the President's Secretariat, the opposition “Blood of Yulia Timoshenko” and the Ukrainian Security Service, which is also under the control of the President today. I don't want to give political evaluations of those events right now, but I can say that it's also obvious that there's an attempt to control the Cave Court. This is confirmed by the fact that, according to Mr. Portnova, the President, within an hour after the information had arrived, issued an order for Mr. Kolesnick to be transferred to another court. I mean, with the Approval for Renewal under the terms of office, the President is now issuing an order for his transfer at all costs to be controlled by this court. Why? Because, in the administrative order in this court, they may be accused as Presidential Decree on the dissolution of Parliament, in fact the abolition of parliamentaryism in Ukraine, as decrees related to the electoral company and the mass of other illegal anti-constitutional legal acts adopted by both the President of Ukraine and the Council on a national basis. Security and defenses located in the territory of the Pecher district of Kiev Dear colleagues, I would like to say from this rostrum that I absolutely share that point of view, that it's not sudden, not chaotic, not emotional. Some of the political forces that used the President to plan this whole process of taking power early, they've been creating lists and headquarters a few months ago, they've already said that the spring will come, they've been saying that there will be a campaign on Kiev, they're trying today, no matter how democratic it is, whether half the country will be represented in Parliament by their parties, and I mean the Communist Party, and the Socialist Party, and the Party of the Regions, they're going to power at all costs. And if we win, believe me, they say these elections are invalid, they'll say they're forged and they'll send, you'll be very surprised at the President's decree, which was unconstitutional, because not even before 60 days of election, but they were appointed in 54 days. Just as they are today commenting on the decree of appointment by the same President Yuschenk Koleschenka, and after he refused to be directed, they are releasing him immediately. They're saying that the decree was in violation, the Yushchenka's previous decree, and that's why we're cancelling it. Do you understand? It goes without precedent without having anything to do with the law, with the Constitution and with the laws of Ukraine, with the taking of power. And I, I emphasize, am very sorry that the President is involved. I want to speak to Victor Andriovich Yushchenka. Dear Mr. President, you are the guarantor of the Constitution. Now, note that I can no longer speak as a lawyer, because this is an argument that no one can hear, sit at the negotiating table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u83	Yes. Mr. Stoyan, two minutes and Mr. Samylenko, head of the committee or the first deputy chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u84	Dear colleagues, what was said today is now said -- it was Miroshnichenko who already said, about events that took place about 11 o'clock. I, my colleague Popescu and Bronnikov, witnessed what happened in the morning. We arrived there with a specific assignment. The point is that today the Pecher Court was to consider a lawsuit by the Cabinet of Ministers to the President of Ukraine concerning the unconstitutionality of this decree. And when we arrived, and to come, to participate in this meeting, we asked, "Where is the meeting going to be? The guards told us: “On the second floor there is a notice board, you will read.” We went up and really read what the trial was going to be today at 2.30 p.m. And as we were about to go, Koleschenko approached me, he knew me well, saying: “Mr. Stoyan, could you come to my office?” I say, please. We're in. Me, Popescu and Bronnikov. He shows us a smile and says: “Look! I want to inform you that I have been reinstated as Head of the Cave Court. We say: ‘ That means good, justice triumphed. ’ And he says, "But you know, using what you're here, what you're here for, please come with me, I want to take the seal away, but I'm very afraid of political provocations. [[Because we were going to go, so what do we do by 2:30?]] Perhaps the person felt that political provocations were being prepared there, we say, well, please. And we went, really, to the next committee: me, Popescu and Bronnikov. There were two or three more. After that, when I showed the woman who was there, I didn't know her. He says, "Here's the note that I'm reinstated as head of the Cave Court, please give me the seal. Where's the seal? She says: seal in the safe. Then give me the key. He took a key from her, underlined, took the key, there was no physical action, opened the safe, took the seal and came out. We went out with our colleagues. And we've been there for about 10 or 15 minutes. Not in the office, we went into the corridor and went on our assignments, went to the Supreme Council. And then from mass media.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u85	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u86	And then we learn from the media that there was an Alpha, there was someone else there. And our fellow deputies came, and later came. I assume that after the man and the woman, she was a court official, seeing the legality of the decision, she gave away the key, he took the seal. Perhaps she was preparing such actions. And they called out to whom they needed to, because there they say the bottlings came later, and whoever didn't show up there. I mean, really, there was a provocation going on. I say again on behalf of my colleagues. While we were there, we witnessed the peaceful return of the key. So there was no action, and then there were others who thought about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u87	Please, Yuri Pavlovich Samylenko. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. I, along with the members of the committee, followed your instructions, also went to the Cave Court, visited both the central office and the branch to see if there was really a special unit, representatives of the Alfa Special Unit. As reported here, there were no Alphas. In addition, I held talks with the Chief of Security and with the direct leader of Alpha or Management A, as it is called at the Security Service, Chalj Sergey Ivanovich. I can report that the Alpha Unit operates in accordance with the Security Service Act and the Management Regulations. It consists of two units. One of the main things is to combat terrorism, which is currently at the site and is preparing, as Sergey Ivanovich told me, for the Passover elections. And the second unit, which operates under the Act “On the Protection of the Parties to the Trial”. The unit is currently performing its duty to protect the judges of the Court of Appeal: Grigoryeva, Elena and Popova. In addition, Alpha personnel are involved in the protection of Mr. Melnichenko during his stay in Ukraine. No orders have been made to use Alfa in any of the events that are being dealt with here, according to Chaloj Sergey Ivanovich. I want to assure you. These conversations are inspired by, you could say, our opponents, they're useful to make these disturbing rumours and so forth. In addition, I report that I have conducted interviews with the Chief of Military Counter-Intelligence and the Deputy General Staff, who have also assured, in short, that there are no unauthorized movements of troops in Ukraine. And what I want to say is that the Security Service is not just Mr. Acting and Moscow, but what's going on is that the Security Service should be led not by diplomats, not by random people in the Security Service, but by professionals. And in conclusion, this style of the work of our opposition, our political opponents, is not only inherent in blowing up this scourge, that the Alpha scares us there, the Ministry of Defence and so on, I work there with healthy people who abide by its greatness by the law. I can give you an example. On Timoshenko's website, the old staff will be helped, which is the President of the Dnepropetrovsky District of Jury Vilkula, who allegedly admitted to journalists in the towers, which does not exclude his participation in the early parliamentary elections, and he is supposed to be on the side of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. I've spoken to Yuri Villkull personally, and I can tell you that this is the purest water of provocation, insinuation, and this is the working methods of our opponents. Therefore, the Committee on National Security and Defence continues to monitor and use forceful methods of impact on developments and I will report to you on the small changes that are taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u89	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. Thus, dear colleagues, we have heard the information, perhaps even more than it would have been worth. Let us ask the committees to which we have made this commission to continue to observe the situation. And in the event of any unforeseen action there, inform the Supreme Council. We're going to postpone the election and release of the judges because we didn't know how to work, so we didn't want to keep people under pressure. Now let us consider the question of the appointment of individual village heads in a row. Please, Tikhov is head of the committee. Lunch on schedule, don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u90	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u91	Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u92	Don't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u93	Nothing, they'll hear, they'll mention lunch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u94	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule on April 4, this year, at its meeting, discussed the appointment of two urban, one village, and 14 village heads. The issue was raised in connection with the early termination of the city’s, village, and village heads: 13 of them at their own request, six of them at health, two for other reasons — five, three for death and one for the local council’s decision. The relevant local councils have submitted letters and other necessary documents to Parliament. In view of the fact that, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, rural, urban heads are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the committee unanimously approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the indemnity of the elections of the relevant city, village and village heads on Sunday, June 17, 2007, by adopting the relevant decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u95	Thank you. No questions? Let's vote. I'm voting on the adoption of Order 3441 on the appointment of the next election of the Great Head of Agriculture. [[Plainensk Region]] Please vote. [[14:49:18]] For 248 Copy that. Order 3441-1. Inter-Syriczkyvski Rural Head Elections on June 17th. [[Golovanov district of Kirovograd]] Please vote. [[14:49:45.]] For the 250. Order 3441-2 on the appointment of the Bronic Rural Leaderial Elections. [[Drobic district, Lvivščina]] Please vote. [[14:50:11]] For 247 Copy that. Order number 3441-3 on the appointment of consecutive elections of the village head. [[Ouratsky District, Zitomirščina]] Please vote. [[14:50:36]] For the 250. Copy that. Decree 3441-4 on the appointment of the extraordinary election of the Kindrash village head. [[Kupyan district, Kharkiv region]] Please vote. [[14:51:02]] For the 250. Copy that. Decree 3441-5 on the appointment of the successive election of the Slovenian Serb village head. [[Lugansk]] Vote. [[14:51:28]] For the 250. Copy that. Order number 3441-6 on the appointment of the successive election of the Komsomol City Head. [[Poltava Region]] They've assigned the head to the minister. Please vote. [[14:51:56]] For the 250. Copy that. Order, registration number 3441-7, on the appointment of the non-securitised elections of the Czarnevodsk Rural Head. [[Town district of Hmelnitsk Region]] Vote. [[14:52:26]] For 251 Copy that. Decree 3441-8 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Šubinostaw village head. [[Cherkas region]] Vote. [[14:52:53]] For 249 Copy that. Order 3441-9 on the appointment of the second-in-command election of the Shipovtsky Rural Head. [[Circumstances of Ternopilstina]] Vote. [[14:53:20]] For 249 Copy that. Decree 3441-10 on the appointment of successive elections of the Demyanov Rural Head. [[Biloukurakina District, Lugansk]] Vote. [[14:53:48]] For 252 Copy that. Order number 3441-11 on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Loškarov Rural Head. [[Nikopolski District of Dnipropetrovsk]] Vote. [[14:54:14]] For 251 Copy that. Order number 3441-12 on the appointment of the successive elections of Alexander's village head. [[Pyratinian Region, Poltavščina]] Vote. [[14:54:40]] For 248 Copy that. And the decision number 3441-13 on the appointment of the Serbian head election in turn. [[Cominternov region, Odessa region]] [[14:55:09]] For 251 Copy that. Order number 3441-14 on the appointment of the successive elections of the Bogai Village Head. [[Globin district, Poltavščina]] Vote. [[14:55:37]] For 251 Copy that. Order 3441-15. On the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Dwynitsk Rural Head, Borsztowsky district, Ternopilstina Vote. [[14:56:03]] For 252 Copy that. Order number 3441-16 on the appointment of the successive election of the Irpine City Head, Kyivščina. Please vote. [[14:56:29]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. We need to make a decision on the matter under discussion. The decree on the situation around the plans for the deployment of U.S. missile defence elements in the territory of neighbours with Ukraine has been finalized. Registration No. 3292. You know that you and I have taken it for granted. A project is proposed. The committee head is missing, let me read it quickly. After hearing information from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses concern about the situation in connection with plans for deployment in the territory of neighbouring Czech States, Poland, of elements of the U.S. missile defence system. [[OBJECTIVE]] The Supreme Council takes into account that the decision to deploy elements of the U.S. A. system caused a mixed reaction in Ukraine, other countries of Europe, as well as a negative reaction from the neighbouring government with Ukraine of the Russian Federation. In view of this, the Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on interested parties to engage in a constructive dialogue with a view to ensuring maximum transparency and taking the interests of all countries of the region into account as fully as possible in the area of security. The other one. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is based on the fact that the national interests of Ukraine, the countries of the European continent, would be most fully in line with the creation of a European-wide system of collective security that would rule out the emergence of new distribution lines on our continent and in which a pan-European missile defence system could be created. An effective factor in deepening mutual trust and avoiding the threat of global opposition between the main supporters and opponents of the deployment of U.S. missile defences could be the creation of a common system of US and Russian Federation, not only in their own interests, but also in the interests of other allies. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules. Suggest the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: First. Inform the content of this UN Security Council Regulation, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the governments of all interested States. The other one. Ensure a comprehensive study by the relevant ministries and other executive authorities of the situation around the plans to deploy U.S. missile defence elements and areas adjacent to Ukraine to produce Ukraine’s positions in this regard. [[OBJECTIVE]] Third. Recommend that the President of Ukraine consider the issue of the deployment of U.S. missile defence elements in the territory of neighbouring countries with Ukraine as a result of his study in accordance with paragraph 2 of this decision. [[OBJECTIVE]] This decision has been effective since its adoption. Please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u96	Adam Ivanovich, here, if we read the constant part, here's the idea that there are two options that we think are useful: either a pan-European collective security system, or a second option, a common US-Russia system. Why, then, the second and third paragraphs, where we instruct ministries to study this issue, should we report, and the third option should instruct the President to consider this issue in the PNDP. If we are convinced that these are two options and there is no other option, only the first paragraph should remain and the second and third paragraphs should be deleted. It is clear, however, that what would be the decision of the PNDP under the leadership of the President and what would be the opinion of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u97	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! As you recall, the authors of this Supreme Council decree were our representatives, the Communist factions Simonenko and Alexeyev, and we accepted it as a basis. But there is virtually little left on this foundation. I mean, first of all, the first paragraph of this regulation, which is evaluative. These are, for example, thrown out of the first position at all, what we took from the draft decision. The implementation of these plans threatens Ukraine's national security, the lives of millions of citizens, because according to experts and so forth, any claim that Ukraine could join the US plans for the A.A. system is not appropriate in this context.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u99	Right. Right. Dear colleagues, the committee has proposed, I put it to a vote. Order on the situation around the placement plans, registration number 3292. [[15:02:10]] For-33 I have a proposal then, let's vote on the decision we made in the first reading. Please, which we have taken as a basis. Please vote. In general, it was a decree that we made for the first time. Vote. [[15:02:39]] For 240 It's been decided. Clearly, the committee wanted and wanted. Dear colleagues, we still have two rather pressing questions, then we will consult. We need to put into the agenda and consider the decisions related to the changes to the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of a bill number 3427 amending article 65 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2007 on the write-off of targeted loans for persons with disabilities. Please vote. [[15:03:33]] For 249 It's on. Dear colleagues, this is a bill, as required by the Cabinet of Ministers, drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, is there a Bogchuk? May I have the committee's opinion? Head of the Committee on Budget Affairs, Vasil Stepanovich Bogchuk
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u100	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies. Vasil Bogchuk, socialist party, Ternopil.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u101	Please speak. This one's about lunch again. You're not paying attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u102	The Committee on Budget Issues at its meeting on 4 April 2007 reviewed the draft Ukrainian law amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2007. With the aim of supporting enterprises of social organizations with disabilities who are able to function effectively in modern economic conditions and produce competitive products, but are in a difficult financial position and cannot be accounted for by the Social Protection Fund's budget loans. This bill provides for amendments to article 65 of the Ukrainian Law on State Budget 2007. With regard to the granting of the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to write off the targeted loans granted by the offices of the Fund, which ended on January 1, 2007. The Committee on Budgetary Questions took the following into account. First of all, it's about 10 enterprises of disabled people's organizations. Second, the total amount of funds that are not recovered from the listed facilities of the Social Protection Fund is 2 million dollars. Thirdly, the adoption of the bill will allow jobs to be saved for the disabled. And fourthly, the bill has a positive conclusion from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In addition, the bill agrees with the Ministry of Finance, with the Ministry of Economics with certain observations that are taken into account. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Justice, the bill is not subject to legal expertise and is consistent with the same legal force. The Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends the bill before adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u103	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Cibenka, please, three minutes and we'll be clear. From place to platform, as you wish. On the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u104	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons. I'll start with the main one. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons discussed this bill yesterday at its meeting, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and decided to support it in the first reading. And given that there is nothing to adjust to the second reading in this document, given the consent of all the ministries and departments interested in accepting this document, we would ask our colleagues to support this document as a whole. And it's about one thing. The fact is that today, unfortunately, 10 companies that have been mentioned today are meeting with disabled persons with the Social Protection Fund in the courts. It's a totally wild situation when people with disabilities are judged. The point is that these were loans that were allocated for job creation. So, dear colleagues, I ask you to support this document not only in the first reading but also in general, it has nothing to do with the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u105	Thank you. Please sit down, Peter Stepanovich. Shall we vote? Once again, this is a bill by the Cabinet of Ministers, which, in accordance with the Cabinet of Ministers Act, has the only right to make changes, to pass the State Budget Act and to amend the State Budget Act. I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the Law amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007 on the write-off of targeted loans for persons with disabilities, registration number 3427. Please vote. [[15:08:35]] For 247 The law has been passed. It is necessary to include in the agenda the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007 and registration number 3248, 3248-1. [[on crediting the State Road Service]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[15:09:09]] For 243 Thank you. Here we have two bills and a bill numbered 3248 by my colleague, Alexander Petrovich, and Bill 3248-1 by the Cabinet of Ministers. Comrade Baranowski, given that there are more advantages here, and what we have already talked about, the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing to support the Cabinet of Ministers bill itself and is therefore refusing to report on its bill. I invite the head of the Road Service Demiskan Vladimir Fedorovich. Please brief on the substance of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u106	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, the bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which grants the State Road Service the right to participate in 2007, credits amounting to 4.7 billion dollars, which is provided by the State Road Development Program for 2007-2011, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers Decision of 14 February 2007 No 217. [[amending the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act]] The adoption of the draft law will accelerate the development of international transport corridors in Ukraine, contribute to the economic development of regions, the restoration and creation of new jobs, ensure the further development of Ukraine's road network, Ukraine's reliable and quality transport links with Russia and the European States. The bill is considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues, which is proposed for adoption on both the basis and in general. I ask you, Your Honour, to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m0.u107	Are there any questions? None. Roads have to be built. Let's support it. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007, registration number 3248-1. [[on crediting the State Road Service]] Please vote. [[15:11:47]] For 248 The law is passed. Dear colleagues, I see that you have more and more immunity to take a break, so I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council closed and I would like to vote in connection with the fact that we are now working like this and there are some changes in our work, in our work, I'm putting to the vote, and I would like you to support the motion for the evening session to start at 17 hours 30 minutes, at 17 hours 30 minutes. Please vote. [[15:12:41]] For the 250. That is, the evening session will take place at 5:30 p.m. if there are no circumstances under which we can meet before. Good luck.
