ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national MPs, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, April 4, the session, the parliamentary sessions continue. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:04:05]] Ready to meet 257 national deputies. The morning session is open. Initially, clarifications in the form of answers to questions that are often asked by MPs and were asked as well yesterday. The thesis is often this: the President's decree has been issued and, although it is unconstitutional, it acts throughout Ukraine to clarify the case before the Constitutional Court. And in view of the fact that the President had written down separate functions for the deputies of the Supreme Council and the fact that the powers of the Supreme Council were being terminated, I wanted to draw attention to one detail of the matter so that you would remember it well. First of all, all procedures related to the early termination of the powers of the Parliament of the State, our state, are defined by 90 articles of the Constitution. And the first part of this article tells us that the powers of deputies, and so the Supreme Council, continue until the first meeting of the Supreme Council of the new calling. The thesis “advanced ” means that not five years from now, but after the early elections. Thus, both plenary meetings, and all functions of committees, factions, each MP, are reserved for the formation of a new parliament. Before the first session of the new parliament. It is thus a protected principle of the continuity of power, which is fundamental to any constitutional system. This also applies to the Cabinet of Ministers when it continues to exercise its authority after, for example, resigning. This is true of the President when he exercises his powers to make an oath by the new President. This also applies to Parliament as an institution of power, legislative power. So all the talk about what you see now needs to be done within the limits set out in the President's decree, that's nonsense, but that the duties of a deputy are defined by the Constitution, not by the President's decree. Because even the appearance of such an entry in the President's decree means interference in the legislative branch of power, which is expressly prohibited by the principle of the distribution of power. So calm down -- I'm talking to those who haven't understood the point -- and we're doing what we need to do in the 2006 elections, and I'm giving you full assurance that this job will continue until the 11th year. So relax, get to work and stop panicking about something. [[Applause]] I mean, it's not even my conclusion. For example, even the President refers to the Supreme Council, imposing a veto on the relevant laws, signing these decisions, recommendations far after the adoption of his decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council in time. I think it might be a coincidence, but it's legitimate, and it shows that the President respects the Constitution. I would like us to feel the same way, not the same, but rather respect the Constitution. Today is the birthday of the Ukrainian national deputy Gnatkewicz Yuri Vasilovich. Since he is, I'm sorry that he is not an independent MP and can't receive a greeting from Parliament, so let's give it to him in absentia. Let's say hello to him on his birthday. [[Applause]] Since he is now 67 years old, let us wish that he would be a member by the age of 71. [[Applause]] Today we have time for talk from the factions with proposals, announcements, messages, and so on. I'm asking you to sign up for this. Please. Please, we have the time stipulated in the Rules. It's from the Communists. Peter Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u2	The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! The so - called united opposition wants to convince the people of Ukraine, the world society that in Ukraine the crisis, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers do not control the situation in Ukraine. That's absolutely ridiculous. I understand that there is a crisis in the heads of individual politicians. The fact that the Conciliation Council on Monday at its meeting predetermined the need to discuss the political situation in the country would be unnecessary because of confirmation. Why did I say "so-called opposition"? Because generally the opposition in a normal civilized society appeals to the population, appeals to the people. To whom did the so - called united opposition appeal? In recent times. I'll remind my colleagues and tell the radio that Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko has recently been to Israel, Germany, France and most of all the United States. Personally, I have no doubt that the blessings for carrying out these anticonstitutional actions and this decree have been received there. What is the cost of the events that are taking place in Ukraine today? It is wrong to think that the issue is worth protecting the Supreme Council or even parliamentaryism. The price of the issue is much higher, the real price of the issue is to avoid the division of Ukraine and to avoid a new orange riot. Unfortunately, Ukrainian President Viktor Yushchenko did not take the historic chance he had to become President of all Ukraine. Unfortunately, he was and remained supreme only in one part of Ukraine, the Galicina. Well, unfortunately, this man is not allowed to be the leader of the entire nation. By means of his criminal decree, he actually carried out his decision, only to his party, ignoring the will of all the Ukrainian people. That's why a faction of Communists, members of the National Unity Coalition, are convinced that their actions are absolutely constitutional, that our requirements are absolutely constitutional. And what the people of Ukraine are doing to support the coalition of national unity is absolutely constitutional. Today's paradoxical situation is me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u3	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u4	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, the paradoxical situation: I, a national MP who did not vote in favour of this Constitution in 1996, am trying to force those people who voted for it to do this historic document.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u5	I understand you're sorry you didn't vote for the Constitution at the time, right? Now your position would be more convincing and it is clear that this is the case. Please, the deputies Herman and Kovalesz, who are to speak now, are to convey their word to Samuelnek Yuri Pavlovich. He will have six minutes to do so. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, while the domestic political situation in the country has deteriorated, the National Security and Defence Committee is continuously monitoring the ongoing situation with regard to the prevention and prevention of a forceful scenario. The members of the Committee were at least surprised by the statement on television by the Acting Chairman of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Ltawajchenko, on the readiness of the Special Service to take the necessary measures to ensure the functioning of the Central Electoral Commission and other electorates. At the same time, he stressed that the focus of all BSP units in both Kiev and the regions focused on this particular task. According to Mr. 1997waychenko, any attempt to change the status, quantitative composition of the CEC or influence its members would be considered, I quote, “infringement on the constitutional order of the State”. Thus, honourable colleagues, by enacting a bill repealing the Supreme Council's decree of 8 December 2004, we are with you, i.e. 262 people's deputies, subject to the legal assessment of Mr. Látvajchenko, as well as those who have committed a particularly dangerous crime. I don't know what is behind this zeal of the Acting Chairman of the BSS, but we may soon witness the birth of another General of the army. But for my more than 30-year-old practice of working in the service, quickly accompanying dozens of different electoral campaigns and referendums, I first encountered this interpretation of the interpretation of the Ukrainian Security Service Act and the legal evaluation of its leader on the functioning of the legislative body. In fact, we were threatened with a finger. In the Chekish environment, this is called a pre-emptive prevention exercise with the use of the media. And the reaction to these ripples came immediately. I am being asked by many citizens and people's deputies whether the special unit of the Alfa BSP will be involved, whether the Security Service will take other so-called special measures to influence others and others. Even if I'm sorry, there was no such illegality in the Bush times. Therefore, at the Committee's meeting today, we will discuss more in-depth the statement made by Mr. Latvajchenko and will probably decide to invite him to the meeting to explain to his people's deputies the easy treatment of the laws governing the work of the Security Service. But that's not all, dear colleagues. I am referring to the above-mentioned force scenario. Following the information received by the Secretariat of the Supreme Council to the President's Secretariat, one of the leaders of the Ukrainian Security Service was invited to speak with the heads of the secretariat in a convincing tone to discuss the possibility of the Ukrainian Security Service not to comply with the President's anti-constitutional decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council and the holding of early elections. As in the past, the list has already been prepared for a man of 50. It does not include working agrarians who have expressed their views at the rallies and not the last persons in the State, such as Deputy Prime Minister Tobacconik, ministers of Tolstoy, Shufric and others, as well as a number of people's deputies who have been carelessly opposed to the President's decree and to demand its repeal. Now I'm probably going to fill out this list. Against the backdrop of the calls of the President and the leaders of the opposition to comply with the law and the Constitution as a basic law, it seems at least strange. I wish to address the President of Ukraine. To you, Victor Andreevich, as the guarantor of the Constitution. Call on your nukers to temper their zeal and dust, which can lead to irreversible processes in society. To put all the points above the "and," I ask that, distinguished Alexander Alexandrovich, consider my request to the President to explain the plans and intentions of the issue, and what measures he intends to take to exclude any prerequisites for the involvement of the forces in the event in the country. Please put to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Well, given the specificity of the moment and the fact that the correspondence is obviously inappropriate, I ask you to put to the vote the question of supporting this request to the President and then vote on the referral. To support content. [[10:18:58]] For 253 Supported. Then I put to the vote the question of sending this question. Please. [[10:19:17]] For 256 Decision taken. Please give Popescu his word to Hani Herman. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I've been driving to Concha-Zapos for days and passing by a well-known green fence where everyone thinks it's a symbol of the criminal regime. I thought it was over a year after the presidential election, a symbol of the criminal regime living peacefully behind the green fence, living like this, and no one is asking why, if it was a symbol of the criminal regime, why didn't he answer for the criminal regime if it was a lie if the person was tarnished why no one apologized. But not only does this question come before us, we have a question, but where did the Democrat come to change the symbol of the criminal regime? Why is it that the one who has proclaimed the principles of democracy, rights, freedom is doing everything he can today to make them deny it? Why is guilt pressing the court? Why does it not count with people’s minds? Why is he acting as authoritarian head of state? What happened in our country? What did we fight for, and what did we struggle to do? I would like the President of Ukraine, who was considered a Democrat, to come here and give us an answer. I would like the President of Ukraine to answer the question asked here by a colleague of the Head, why, in the last few days before Easter, would the President of Ukraine not allow people to wait peacefully for the holidays? Why do even the Levites, my countrymen, say that they are not currently in the mind of the elections, that people want to work in peace. Why does the President today, when there is economic growth in Ukraine, when we raise wages and pensions, do everything to ruin the process of economic recovery? So who's at the head of state now? Whom do we today call the head of our nation? A man who. I don't know what which destroys this state with its own hands, which tramples its feet on democracy, without even covering any slogans. I wanted to tell you today, my distinguished colleagues, that I apologize to all the people I've tried to convince that the head of state is balanced and wise, and that he will make a wise decision. Obviously, I was wrong. We have criminal regime number two at the head of the state today. And the second time we won't let him hide behind the green fence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u9	Anna Mikolayevna, thank you for the performance. True, he's making me think, because I'm living behind the fence, and you haven't called your last name, and so it could come out in a way that's a ricochet. True, I have a stallion there, not a fence, so I can be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u10	I remember being evicted from there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u11	That's another thing, yeah. Thank you. The word is Mother, who gives her word to Gnatenko, General Gnatenko, well that's, he's Deputy Ignatenko, but the General is on call. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u12	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected television audiences. I continue to act as a representative of the Business Industry Party of the Ukrainian Union of Entrepreneurs. The main thesis of my statements was aimed at assessing the economic consequences of political instability in the State. I turn to everyone who sees and listens to us again. As the world’s leading economists say, the economy loves political silence. What will the political war waged by Julius Timoshenko bring us? The economy of Ukraine will stop in its development for a minimum period of one year. The investment activity of potential economic partners will die. There may be a serious problem in relations with the countries of the European Union and the Russian Federation, the main partners in our economic relations. All our economic competitors at the international level will applaud the political forces of Block Timoshenko and its satellites, which are contributing to Ukraine's displacement from international markets. Political instability caused by these forces can pose serious challenges to the implementation of all social programmes approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine and developed by the Cabinet of Ministers. These are wage increases, pensions, programmes to combat AIDS, tuberculosis and a number of other diseases. But I would now like to appeal to you now to the great Slovak, Czech patriot Julius Fuchik, “People, be vigilant.” I now act as a military analyst, and I want all the people of our Ukraine to think. Ukraine has become the object of a great political game. The political players of the world do not want to see Ukraine strong and independent. The "Split and Rule" principle hangs over Ukraine. Today we can truly be reached by the collapse of the Soviet Union and Yugoslavia and a number of other countries. There is a real threat to the implementation of the plan, similar to that of American strategist Henry Kissinger, following the breakdown of States into conflict. Objective one: To kick Ukraine as a State out of the elite of world politics, out of the elite of the political and economic system. The plan of Julia Timoshenko is clearly in line with the plan of the section of Ukraine. I call on the President of Ukraine, I address the people of Ukraine. People, be wise, people, be vigilant. Ukraine is in real danger. The National Unity Coalition will do its utmost to prevent the development of such a scenario from breaking up Ukraine's one and our favorite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is Samuel Catherine of Simeon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished participants in our Maidan. I heard the President's direct language on one of the channels yesterday, who told the strong structures that the decree required him to change the position of the political forces in Parliament. Here's all the answers you needed. I understand perfectly that the composition of the coalition doesn't make it possible to create order and peace in a state that doesn't have the normal work of the government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because four years from now, we're really going to make the state richer, and the people of ours, you, our people, who are supporting all of us, richer. And four years from now, no one's going to mention the ignorants of our Ukraine, not even of ours. That's why they're raising everything today, that's why they made the President go into unconstitutional changes today. I also heard yesterday that the leader of BUTU Timoshenko said that there was money in Kabmin's reserve fund, that they would go to the polls. You know, we have, in my hometown of Hersonian at the end of March, a terrible disaster: dust storms beyond which a man could not be seen at a distance of two metres. The damaged 18 schools were without roofs, 4 kindergartens, 3 cultural buildings, the private sector few, fallen trees, damaged even gas pipelines, water towers fell, missing connections, and nearly 200 ATS were electrocuted. [[That's not what it used to be.]] Please tell us, at the previous 40 million calculations, what is needed in order to at least help our people's agriculture in the Herson region and our people in order to overcome this scourge. Tell me, is it patriotism, is it love for the people, that instead of raising these questions and solving the questions of helping people, helping the area, these representatives, so-called, national-democratic, as they call themselves, and in fact, anti-State, anti-national opposition is doing everything to ensure that only their demands have, so to speak, a place in our country. I think we're going to do everything with you to make the Constitution a haven for everything, and to make the law declared unconstitutional. This is also a direct responsibility to the Constitutional Court. Because if another decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u15	Give me 10 more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u16	Then the judges of the Constitutional Court do nothing in Ukraine or in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u17	Catherine Seed, you're right to worry. Stepanian. Did I say "seminal"? No, I just don't fix you all the time, I'm glad to confirm your opinion. Well, your emotions are completely justified, but keep in mind that the contingency fund is spent under the consent of the Supreme Council. Therefore, when we consider this question for what purpose it is foreshadowed, we will be sure to express our opinion. So let the people calm down, no one's tearing a penny out of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u18	I just couldn't say it in three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u19	Thank you. Well, I helped you then, be careful. Mitroskin is delegating his right to speak to Oxyl Vasilyovitch. And you have your rights. So six minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u20	Respectable compatriots, respected colleagues! I think my previous colleague was very concerned when she spoke up and admitted to one minor inaccuracies, I don't criticize you, God forbid, colleague! But I guess I didn't think that there would be room for the judges of the Constitutional Court after that. It's an emotion, because everyone today will say it's an indirect pressure on the court. I wouldn't want that to be the case with us tomorrow. Colleagues, I'll speak for myself. Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I spoke to you yesterday after lunch with a question that asked me to take an official look at the question of four parents of soldiers serving in Desna. Their children were told that they were not going anywhere, that they were not transferred to Dnepropetrovsk at the duty station, and that they were not going to mobilize because there was a tense political situation in Kiev. If we get to the point and Gritsenko is here, although I don't think he'll be here, I'm going to ask you to ask about the resignation of Defence Minister Gritsenko from the post because he started playing politics today, because what he did in Right is illegal. And the second. I'll talk to you as much as I think I will. Colleagues! What colleague Sameilenko said today will not appoint us, the President of the Ukrainian BSS, and Mr. Átnajchenko only serves as the head of the Ukrainian BSS. And we don't need to ask the President about the fate of the Acting Head of the BSS, so I suggest that what we have voted for is good, if the committee finds that there is no way to get in the way, we also have to make a decision to resign. Now, about the question I went to the rostrum. Dear friends! We know that the opposition is looking for early elections, they have led the President to sign an illegal decree, and there is an explanation, because on 28 March, I stress that the Constitutional Court registered the application from the Court of Justice that they demand to torpedo a polytreform – the repeal of Order 2222. That's what my colleague Anna Herman used to say. This return to Ukraine of a dictatorship fought against by millions of people, went to the majors and fought for several months to defeat the dictatorship. So today, the President is trying to take those powers back. Therefore, colleagues, on behalf of the faction of the Party of the Regions, I would like to assure everyone that there will be no elections. And today's media investigation that the Party of the Regions is preparing for the elections is a provocation. They want it to be, but I repeat, it will not be because we have made the right decision on the Central Electoral Commission and the Central Electoral Commission will not be able to organize the elections. We have an illegal obligation to force the annulment and we will abolish it. And with the help of European institutions. But we need our people to understand that there will be no early elections in Ukraine. If the elections were to take place -- what I proposed in the fall -- they would be with the presidential elections early and together with the NATO referendum, as millions of our citizens require today. It won't be any different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u21	Thank you, Vasil Alexiyovich. I can only see that you were wrong about the wording. A party of socialists, just like the Party of Regions, I think the Communists, are ready for the election at all times, and we will be participating in it in the 11th year. But we need to prepare today. Omelyan Nikonovich, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko took advantage of this right. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I understand as well as any of you in the struggle for power, the people who want to use this power are fighting. I don't understand how much power the President lacks when a man of nature is lazy, when one doesn't know what to do, when one doesn't know what kind of burden he's taken on his own, becoming a hostage to those who recommended him for this position, and the simplicity of our people has enabled him to become President, the trust of our people, because we are. But let's look at another one today. Today is the spring outside, today the food security of the state is established. Who gave the President the right in this difficult, most responsible life period to paralyze the work of Ukraine, to paralyze the work of all government structures? Is this a struggle for power? I don't think so. This is the fear of this man, who is called President Yushchenk. He took part in the coup, when I was the Head of the Supreme Council, he took a direct part in the preparation of this coup, he conducted Plust through this hall, through the regiment of the soldier, in order to bring the Chief of the Supreme Council to the office, because the Chief of the Supreme Council was not chosen in this room, but he appointed Kuchma. And Yushchenko was not just an accomplice, but an organizer. So he has experience in conducting coups and has experience because they have done so. Because then the Constitutional Court did not take any decision, but the ruling was simple, Solomon says, that this is not our case, and let the Master's Court consider it. I don't think we're gonna let that happen right now. I'd like to ask you, Alexander Alexander, you: we're the parliamentary-presidential republic, we're not the President's republic, who gave the President the right to collect muscle from himself and throw weapons in his office to intimidate people that I'm so strong, I have the Attorney General, the PNB and so on, and so on, into the Minister of Defense, into the Minister of Internal Affairs. Why did we not invite them into this room and set a task for them? Why the Head of the Supreme Council does not call them to him, but calls upon the President, who has no right to do so, because the government is accountable and accountable to Parliament and the President is only under the control of the new Constitution. That's why I think it's time for us to be respectable friends.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u23	Come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u24	The parliamentary-presidential Republic should be a parliamentary-presidential republic. And the head of the Supreme Council, the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, are the organs that should govern the state today. And the President is no less to carry out the mission that is laid upon him by the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u25	Thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich. True, I am not an organ, I am the Head of the Supreme Council. But Parliament has the right to do what you say. I think we're going to prepare a protocol commission and we're going to invite Parliament to the rostrum tomorrow with information from the leaders of the power structures to report on what is being done to ensure that there is peace in society. If you don't mind, I'll put this proposal to the vote. Then it will be not the Head’s decision, but the Parliament’s. Please. Minister of Internal Affairs, Head of Security and Attorney General. And the Secretary of Defense. [[10:39:35]] For 253 A decision has been made. Thank you for the good offer. Barani's Alexander Mikolaiovich. Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u26	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. There was a meeting at the Presidential Administration yesterday with the heads of the district administrations. What was there to judge was already in the evening, especially this morning, after what was happening throughout Ukraine. The heads of the district administrations arrived immediately, for two days — Thursday and Friday, where they would arrive — to hold sessions of district and district councils with a single subject — to give full support to the President’s anticonstitutional decree on the dissolution of parliament. Please tell us what was not the best of the Bush times when referendums were held with complete approval, as they were preparing throughout Ukraine. I would like to remind the heads of district councils, heads of district administrations, district councils and district administrations today once again of the 60th article of the Constitution, which, by carrying out or directing the execution of criminal orders that conflict with the Constitution today, is a criminal offence and will have to be held accountable. In the Gitomir region, the head of the district council of Ms. Sinjavska on March 31st was accepted as a member of the “Our Ukraine” political party. Yesterday there was enormous pressure on her to hold a session that would take place on Thursday. In protest yesterday she stepped out of our Ukraine party and publicly announced it on district television. Soon. And this was done by a woman, I emphasize, a woman. What is not the best example for men in charge of district administrations, district councils, and district councils today? She's a mother, she knows what children are, she knows what peace is. Therefore, we would like to listen to other district managers. Yesterday, I was talking about the fact that Timoshenko was in a faction in July, and now she's already deployed some headquarters, the main task they're carrying out is to destabilize the situation. And what she says about it, it also has consequences today. I had some information today, and I would like to point out, once again, that in 24 areas, the governors of “Our Ukraine” and BUT, in 18 areas, the council is headed by the regional representatives of “Our Ukraine” and BUIT. And now there's work on destabilizing the situation, guidelines that are appropriate to keep pensions and salaries for budget workers. I'm announcing this so that our people will know the authors of this destabilization. And who doesn't get their pension or salary on time tomorrow, so you know who's really guilty today. And the last. Alexander Aleksandrovich, the draft statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been registered. I'd like to include you in today's message and look into it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u27	Okay. Let's celebrate. From “Our Ukraine, ” the Head is asking for the word, according to the Rules. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u28	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! I also want to go back to yesterday's meeting where the President participated and he has made a decision to stop the work of the Supreme Council. Turning to the comments that Alexander Alexander Alexander had made, I think that the President's lawyers are just about to lose, or at all have nothing professional, or they're just going to point the President somewhere, because the work of the Supreme Council 5 vocations even if it were to take place in the early elections will stop only in accordance with the first part of article 90, i.e. on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council 6 vocation, which of course will not happen by 2011. That's why. The other one. The decree states that we are allowed to do something individually. Once again, I would like to point out that the full illiteracy of the President's lawyers is evidence that there are no individual deputies, there is an authority, in the Constitution is a section called the Supreme Council, and all of the members of the House are concentrated people of Ukraine, who are constantly sitting in the session room and who, on behalf of the people, adopt decisions. And that's why, once again, the conceptually wrong link between the President and Julia Timoshenko and the President's lawyers, and yesterday he was discussing with a lawyer from the Timoshenko faction, who is in charge of the Legal Policy Committee, that the decree is mandatory for execution. For whom is he binding? He would be required to execute, even if the decree contained at least one of the three paragraphs of article 90. If the President had written that a coalition had not been formed in accordance with article 90 and paragraph 1, then the decree would have been mandatory for the Supreme Council. The President’s mandatory decrees may be for his subjects, but not for the Supreme Council as a representative body of the people. Because the President is the head of state, and the Parliament is a people in a concentrated form and he stands over the President. For Parliament is not only the legislature, but also the body of representation of the people who accept the Constitution. And since it is Parliament that can change the mandate of the President, Parliament stands in this situation over the President. And there can be no such thing in the organization of authority that there will be no one day in a full - time parliament. About what Alexander Aleksandrovich said, I was still giving the official conclusion of the minister of justice when the government of Yehanurov resigned last time and was referred to as “in. ” O.”, I gave an explanation – there is no “v. Oh, he's a minister and he's a minister until he's replaced by a new minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u30	Thank God, that's exactly what the Kabmin law takes into account. And that's why we've ensured the tensileness, the continuity of all the institutions of power. So, to my profound conviction, the President's lawyers made, well, I would say, such a sad joke with him in this legal situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Let us summarize this part of our meeting. I think that this function was performed by Sergey Petrovich Headate, with only one clarification, the lawyers there know everything well. It's just that they make these conclusions on purpose, they prepare documents that are official crimes. And you have to remember, the President signs the decrees of this content, but they're responsible for breaking the law for committing criminal acts. So I would like them to do the same with their memory, and I would like them to think that they will have to answer for it. No one is allowed to joke about the system of power. I would like all of us to keep this in mind. And one more thing. When using time for the speech, statements were made, the proposal was made to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council's application for the present moment, the Baraniov deputy made this proposal, I put to the vote the issue of inclusion and consideration of the Supreme Council's application. [[10:48:22]] For 246 A decision has been made. Who reads the application, introduces the project? Please, Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u32	Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Signed by the President of Ukraine, the Decree “On the Cessation of Powers of the Fifth Council” is unquestionably unconstitutional. The Head of State, without acquainting himself with the Constitution, in particular with its 90th article, committed an official crime called an attempted coup d'état. The Supreme Council of Ukraine, prejudging the promulgation of the decree on April 2, 2007, gave a clear summary of the document based on the Constitution. The Ukrainian Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine did not accept the decree. The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government are working in the normal regime. Because article 60 of the Constitution of Ukraine obliges all citizens, the state authorities do not carry out criminal orders and orders, and the President's decree to dissolve the Supreme Council is part of such criminal acts. It is strange and indignant that Yushchenko’s reaction to acts of the Supreme Council that have been approved in due time to the publication of the decree and cannot be annulled at all and, according to the Constitution, are binding upon all the authorities of the State. Similarly, the President's decrees, which he is trying to reverse, are also indignant, and they are clearly anti-constitutional. It is unlikely that his statements and orders can be considered to be well thought out and taken into account at the meetings of so-called forces and heads of administration, aimed at discrediting the higher legislative body of the State, which continues to work legitimately on the basis of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The president is involved in the political struggle and electoral campaign of the Ukrainian Security Service, as evidenced by statements of the acting headship of the U.S.S.S.A. that should remember that this is forbidden by law. The Supreme Council of Ukraine warns all heads of government, heads of district and district government administrations, all government officials, that in the parliamentary-presidential Republic, all the decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are still required to be implemented and that failure to execute them entails administrative and criminal responsibility. No presidential decrees and regulations can repeal the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, the rulings of its parliament. And the opposition of parliamentaryism to the higher legislature is a criminal offence. After the President violated the Constitution and put himself outside the limits of the law, all his latest decrees and orders not only arouse trust but are wrong. The Supreme Council of Ukraine requires the President of Ukraine to immediately repeal its non-constitutional decree on the early termination of Ukrainian parliamentary powers. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I have an offer to discuss this statement, I think, in such a broader format, and to resolve the issue of inviting the leaders of the power structures, particularly the Attorney General, to the Supreme Council. The heads of the Security Service, the Secretary of Defense, the Minister of Interior, the Administration of State Protection, the Border Guards, so that we can find out the full position of these authorities in relation to the President’s anticonstitutional decree and the Supreme Council’s decisions on this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u33	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich, for the offer, but you obviously prepared for the speech and failed to note that Parliament has already voted in favour of the invitation of the leaders of these structures tomorrow. So your proposal is in line with Parliament's will. If anyone wishes to comment on this document, please write it down. It's from the factions. Now, separately, please. It was written down by those who would like to express themselves. 25 minutes is just enough for everyone to express their wish. Please, Rybuk of the Party of Regions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u34	Dear National Deputies! Dear people, voters! Of course, under every sentence, every word of the draft stated the Supreme Council to the President and the faction of the Party of Regions and the coalition signed and, I'm sure, voted unanimously. Because this is true, because once again we want to stress to the guarantor of the Constitution, the President, that righteous steps cannot be taken by the unrighteous, because the crime, the more senior official, is leading to a series of crimes and leads to final disunity, infidelity and mistrust in all societies, and no one will be staying there, will affect everyone! So there is a real, legal legislative authority that should not allow it and warns the head of state, I would say so, in human terms, to stop playing with ambition, not to be nightly before the Supreme Council and before people. I'm proposing that after this statement we, who wants to take the initiative first, and I'm showing it, go to the President and bring it to him, and let him explain it to us, because, for example, I've never had the opportunity to go any further with the President and any questions about the national economy and the legislative basis and the basis to reconcile or at least hear anything, ever on television. I was just a group of deputies from the Party of Regions who worked in the Volinsk, Žitomirsk, and Ravensk regions. People don't know what it's for, what it's for. They're calling right now -- stop, ask again, and if you don't, call us, we'll help you. With us the people, with us the people, because the people want the truth, are and are expressed in this statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u35	Bondarczuk gives his word to the Head. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u36	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! Ideologically or conceptually, the statement is directed, in my opinion, to the right direction, but it needs to be edited. And the Supreme Council is the highest representative body, the only one in the state and the language has to be official and has to be clarified. [[There's a lot of literary words.]] For example, at the meetings of so-called muscle. These are literature. I think so. It's just that I have a request for you, Alexander Alexanderovich, that she needs to be processed in terms of terminology, legal examination and editing. I'd like to postpone this until the document is processed and then accept it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u37	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The Communist faction will vote in favour of this statement, on the basis that it is the will of the Supreme Council, this is the President's warning of his responsibility. But I would like to draw attention to the following, distinguished colleagues. You can talk to those who understand. You can talk to anyone who wants to. Those responsible for the fate of their people can be approached. Over the course of two years, we have seen similar from the orange team, that they understand what they are doing in the interests of the people of Ukraine, not in the name of when they are travelling outside Ukraine, in particular to the United States of America for appropriate consultations. But I would also like to draw attention to what has been accompanying our lives for the past two years. Our lives during these two years have been accompanied by wild dances, our lives for the past two years have been accompanied by the songs of Greenjolly. Why is this happening? Because the chief has chosen drums and U.S. technology. And by the sound of the drum, the chiefs are chosen only for the tribe. I would not like the people of Ukraine to be viewed as a tribe that does not understand what a leader is and where he has already brought the people of Ukraine. When I conclude my statement, I would like to state on behalf of our faction: the powers of Yashchenka will be terminated in 2009, at the very least, in 2009, I am convinced that they will be completed sooner, and I hope that he will not forget to read the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which provides for the responsibility of officials for the crimes committed. His decree of dissolution of Parliament, unconstitutional, illegal, is the grossest official offence, so he will be fully responsible for the crime committed against the people of Ukraine once he has been released by law. Why? Because this decision will necessarily lead to Ukraine's further division into that territorial, American programme, a principle that was already established in the creation of independence, to divide Ukraine into three parts. It is deepening these contradictions in Ukraine today. Furthermore, by this decree, it strengthens the tennis industry and the mafia and increases corruption, as billions of bracelets that will be thrown into elections will be taken out of the voter pocket. And thirdly, this will necessarily lead to a rise in prices and tariffs, because the criminal economy and corrupt authorities are pulling money out of elections to deceive the people once again, after the elections, the same money will be returned from the pockets of our voters. That's why Yushchenko will carry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u39	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, dear voters! In principle, I didn't think to sign up for the speech, but after my colleague Samylenko's information that every step we take is controlled by the BSS, and I want to confirm that there were such conversations with me during those parliamentary elections, I was warned that my speeches were written down so that I could be neater in sayings and so on. So I'm sorry, if this is democracy, what does fascism look like? We did not accidentally call them “ours” here, because their methods are not democratic. What happened? Parliament's release to health. But there are two or three vacations in other countries a year, vacations, new elections and so on. But if it wasn't for the President's decree, it would be the minority's will. The minority imposes its will on the majority. Is that democracy? Is that a democratic principle? Why do I have no right to say today that this decision is unconstitutional, and this is a criminal decision? Why do I have to make illegal, unconstitutional decisions? Remember, we've been negotiating with you. Anna Herman here apologized to the voters, and I apologize, and I kept saying that I hope for common sense, for conscience, for the dignity of the President I spoke of. It turns out that this whole scheme was worked long ago. And the Pharisee hypocritically, cynically, conducting some kind of negotiation, conducting the universals and other round tables, we didn't know, was preparing for the breakup. Why, from where did this “Dependant ” president come, resuscitated? Under the breakup. Why was the head of the Cave Court expelled from the work by an illegal decree? Under the breakup. Why the Constitutional Court began to murder, to smite, and to provoke them there, giving them escapes and incursions. Under the breakup. The man had a stone in his heart, and he told us that he wanted us to do the universe. And then these 17 requirements, they were actually a disaster for them. Because when people began to read about the fight against corruption, laughter rose. Yushchenko told us that Timoshenko has 7.5 billion on his conscience. I had no idea about them. He's the one who told us that the production rate has dropped in the Associated Press interview. She immediately told us that he had something to do with “Rosokrenergego” requiring us to break direct ties. We didn't sign them. Turns out the president's involved. Who, though, is involved in corruption scandals? What do we do now? I think we should act strictly in the legal field. This statement needs to be discussed. This statement must be voted on. And we have one arbitrator: the people. We haven't betrayed him yet. We were with the people the whole time. We'll be with the people. And these ladies and soles of the pro - American family should remember that there is another punishment besides judgment, and they will certainly be responsible for all the evil they have done and are planning to do in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u41	You are so excited to speak, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Criminals are not afraid of God’s judgment; they are better afraid of national judgment. I'm talking about the district court, so we need to direct people. Omelyan Nikonovich's boyfriend, please. Oh, he gave it to Player, didn't he? Leonid Ivanovich? Please. The player Leonid Ivanovich is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u42	I support the text of the statement, although I share the view that a deaf person, such as our President, poser, should be approached by something, but at the same time the position of the Supreme Council must be made known to the people, the general international public, to show that we are dealing with a deaf person. The second part of my statement is to continue on the same subject, the subject of destroying everything, and morality, and morals, and history. Because we remember not too long ago, apparently, the dioxin chach drank there, in Tbilisi, and brainwashed, and began to talk about what should be created here in Ukraine by museums, surfing, Soviet occupation. But now, in those minutes, he's moved on. It is Artek, world famous for the Yaltian route, on. The Order of Lenin and the Order of the Friends of the Peoples, according to the Order of the Law, were decorated by two Orders of Arteco, which is the President, which dismantled these two shrines of history, the shrines that made up the collectives of Artec for tens of thousands of healthy children. That is why it is very upsetting because destruction is coming. Moreover, the official version that Catherine Chumachenko, who is Yushchenko, will visit with a group of the same pro-Americans or Americans, is that why these shrines should be removed. I ask, Alexander Alexandrovich, to make this part of the statement as a parliamentary request to the President, because it is not just vachanalia, it is true vandalism and abuse of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u43	Thank you. Chechetov will perform instead of Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u44	Dear Alexanderovich! Respectable friends, colleagues! You know, in order to live by the social standards of the United States of America, we and our politicians and top leaders must assess how they would be assessed in the same West. Whatever it is, I ask you, if the American President had violated the Constitution three times and had failed to comply with the Supreme Court's decision. I think an impeachment procedure was immediately organized, and tomorrow there would be a democratic President of the United States of America, who would not have trampled on the Constitution, but would have followed the letter in the letter of the Constitution. I bring in the fact that there is a direct rule of the Constitution that, if the Regional Council has made a two-thirds decision on the Governor's mistrust, the President should automatically sign the decree. We have decided a few months ago that certain regional councils have signed a decree, no, a grave violation by the President of the Constitution. Second! Under the Constitution, if 3 million citizens have signed and wish to submit to a referendum, because it is the people who are the sources and bearers of power, to bring a question to the referendum, once again the President must do so by automatic means as a servant of the people. What's going on with us? They've collected 5 million signatures on a NATO referendum, six months ago, they've considered that under a microscope, they've counted signatures, they've checked, they've turned out to be 4.5 million, they've passed something on to the President's Administration, where the decree is, where is the decision to hold a referendum? Second gross violation of the Constitution. Thirdly, it's completely unforgivable. The Supreme Court shall decide on the restoration of Mr. Jovtak by the Governor. Well, think about it, the Supreme Court, the United States decides what the President of the United States does, acts as a guarantor of the Constitution. What's going on with us? Not enough of what's not being done, there's a disgusting comment on the whole country, and I'm taking off my hat in front of a BUT member, the head of the Supreme Court of Onopenka, who ripped off the President and said, "You have a conscience, yes! Have respect for the third branch of authority and the law.” So at first I thought that when an anti-constitutional decree had been issued to suspend Parliament's action, it was a mistake. Well, maybe the president's busy. The Party of War has issued a decree, he has waved, not read, yes. And it turns out, no. Here, if these facts were to be analysed and a number built, it was simply a position of disregard by the highest official of the country of the Constitution. So, Victor Andreevich, we're addressing you again, cancel this illegal order, it's out of the legal field, yes. With this step you will introduce the situation in the country into the legal field, you will take a serious step towards stabilizing Ukraine, consolidating society. Most importantly, we understand that stability is at the heart of economic growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u45	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Bondarchuk is in place of Melnichuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u46	Dear Alexander Alexander. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Since the draft of this document is prepared by our colleagues and socialists - John Sidorovich and Alexander Petrovich - we certainly discussed and supported it in faction. But if there is any point to a stylistic or other plan, they could certainly be taken into account. But we must vote in favour of this document during the morning session, the morning session. But I would like to continue with the topic that we raised when we discuss the draft document, to report that I have been called from some areas of Winnitzkina by the current session, that there has been a strong indication from the district administration that there has been an urgent call for regional and city councils to declare support for the President's decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council and the condemnation of Parliament's actions. I'm not ruling that out if I consider breaking the heads of the government last night. It is necessary to state that, if such a directive is indeed true, it bears witness to one thing — the Presidential branch’s efforts to undermine local self - government and the final ignoring of the Constitution of Ukraine, the European Charter of Local Self - Government, the establishment of a presidential dictatorship under the smoke of a veil of bales, the introduction of European norms and standards of social life. But this number won't pass. The heads of appropriate counsel to do so and the deputies should know that in time they will have to take responsibility, if not criminal, at least politically and morally for these actions. Because the presidents come and go, and the respect of the people, the authority of the countrymen, to meet the entanglements of political adventurers, can be lost forever. As to the questions that might be brought to the attention of the extracurricular sessions, this is a question of the well - being of the inhabited places so that our villages and cities may be like a scribe, as Taras Shevchenko said, especially on the eve of the light festival of the Resurrection of the Cross. The issue of municipal reform. Questions about the functioning of social facilities, preparation for children’s summer rest, and so forth. But I think that these sessions could be held in order to follow the canons that have been adopted in our society after the celebration of the Resurrection of the Cross. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u47	Kuzmenko has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u48	Thank you. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, respected chairman. I would like to pause at a few points that we have today to draw attention once again to their meaning. Well, first of all. 24 of the President's employees with their signatures, which he pays his wages with, among other things, their signatures confirmed the President's support. Well, I think that if you put together the bathroom cleaners from JECQ and ask. To confirm their trust with their signatures in the leader of the JECQ, it'll be about the same picture. So there's nothing strange about it. As our Taras Shevchenko said in his poem “Son”: “Our father’s naked head is playing. Urah, hurrah, hurrah!" Thus, some royal officials in Shevchenk applauded, so officials today applaud the President of Ukraine. As Eclixiast said, “There is nothing new under the moon.” The second thing I'd like to pay attention to. Today, the president has shown us that the amount of authority he has is too great for this position. And we have to take that into account when we're preparing changes to the Constitution. Third. I would like to thank you now from this rostrum Yuri Vitaliyovich Lucenka for his speech on Maidan the day before yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, along with Julia Volodymyr and Mr. Kirilenko. When Lucenko made clear the real purpose of what they want: to shake the power until it falls. That's all they really need. No good for the people, nothing else for them. They need to shake the power. And we need both our voters and all the others and representatives of other states to understand clearly what the so-called opposition really wants. And finally. I would like to contact those lieutenants, captains, and majors who will be forced to do what the acting officer has said, including in the Security Service, so far as the acting head of the Security Service is concerned. I would like to warn them and turn to their common sense. I have my own reasons for doing this. Perhaps those who give the orders will be able to escape. But you're going nowhere, you're citizens of Ukraine, think about it, don't forget it, be guided by common sense and your civic duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u49	Thank you. I'd like to be more precise in terms. Sergei Leonidovich, the salary of the head of the administration is not paid by the President, but by the people. The president's just putting people at the cash register. These are very different things, and we need to be clear to everyone: and who gets the salary, and who talks about it. Tarasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u50	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! Of course, in today's situation, what we have to say to our people, to our people, our President has gone beyond the constitutional field, and our President can hardly be called President today. Today he is a citizen of Yushchenko. This is the first aspect on which, today, we are with you and are considering the draft statement that we will certainly accept today. The thing is, right now, these phrases are in what's called an anti-constitutional decree, that we're supposed to have some kind of political crisis. Nothing like that. Dear radios, dear voters! There is no crisis, there is a crisis of 20 officials or 20 politicians who lack the power to fight this power to alleviate their own ambitions. Unfortunately, Yushchenko's citizen is in on it. I have the impression that our President, a citizen of Yushchenko, has just beenZombed by this group. Therefore, I ask you, citizen of Yushchenko, to cancel your anti-constitutional decree, to return to the presidency, otherwise it will appear to me and the people of Ukraine that the third tour, by which you became President, was not exactly correct either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u51	The Chechetov faction is asking for the word of Billash, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u52	Dear MPs! Dear Alexanderovich! I want to speak and say the following. He once said, "The supreme gift of God is the ability to resent all the evil." And what's wrong with us right now is the fault of the President and his warlords. The country is sick, the seed is broken. As Pushkin said, this phenomenon can be defined by the words: There are a lot of anger, like leaves in September. Right now, this is an orange rage. I just want to say that I feel like I'm getting calls from the creative union, from Donbass' cultural elite, and they're all outraged by this illogical presidential decree. People have finally seen it. We've started to work, we've started to improve significantly, and it's said that we wouldn't just interfere and watch, we'll live. And I would like to say to our President's supporters the words of our classic: Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u53	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have discussed the draft statement. To sum up this discussion, I would like to consider the following. The statement is an act of the Supreme Council, an assessment of the situation, addressed to all: society, the structures of power, including the President. We're not asking the President, we're warning, we're proposing and protecting the President, we're keeping him from a questionable step that has a clear legal definition, and we're protecting the state because the President is the institution of this state. I'd like us to treat this document that way. Today it's a cynical, conscious, sorry for the word, a hammocked view of the basic law by a whole bunch of officials from the President's Institute. Let them remember that they will not get away with it, and they will have to answer for it. Now I've got a government telegram from the Central Electoral Commission that reports that on April 3, at 24 hours, the deadline for submitting lists to elections by political parties is running out. Got here at 10:00 a.m. I want to remind the head of the Central Electoral Commission, Jaroslav Vasilovich Davidovich. The former, by decision of the Supreme Council. He's signing this document. He has no right to sign it, first. Secondly, he is obliged to comply with the Supreme Council's decree, which, by declaring the President's decree invalid, is based on a grave violation of the Constitution of Ukraine, prohibits any action related to the enforcement of illegal orders. And he will be responsible for these things, and I would like him to remember that too! No action has been taken by the Central Election Commission regarding the organization of elections! Secondly, we hear all the time from those who violate the Constitution, the laws that all should work in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. Well, it always sounds like that when a thief's hat burns. He screams: “Hold the thief!” Today, pressure is being exerted on the Constitutional Court, because everyone understands the fines he has to give, because it is not just a lawyer, not just a constitutional law specialist, but a person who is able to read several lines to say: “The President’s decree is cynically contrary to the Constitution, especially the 90th article of the Constitution, which allows only one to use action to end the powers of the Supreme Council and nothing else in the Constitution to say about it.” So this article goes through, it's clearly an anti-constitutional decree, and that's why there's pressure today. Head of the Constitutional Commission. The Constitutional Court has applied for authority because of the furious pressure on it and on the members of the Constitutional Commission. We'd like that. The Constitutional Court. We'd like to give him a hint. The pressure varies from one official to another. You have been entrusted with a responsible position — the heads of the Constitutional Court, the judges of the Constitutional Court — to bear this burden, to answer to the Constitution, to the society that has entrusted you with this mission, and do not refer to what is difficult for you. There is opposition to pressure. As a lawyer, you know, go to the district court. I think today he has every possibility based on the law, the Criminal Code, to express his attitude toward those who exert this pressure. As provided by the Constitution, you must act on your conscience by law. Because it may also be an attempt to block the work of the Constitutional Court so that outside the legal field it can decide its own interests, satisfy its interests through the streets, and thus pressure the authorities. I would like us to release the boys and girls involved in this matter so that they too can view their civic responsibilities as provided by law, not above that. Today, during the discussion of the application, there were observations regarding the legal and terminology text of the document. We have the Rules of Procedure: the documents of the Supreme Council are legally edited after the vote by the Legal Authority, without altering its substance. And of course, all the comments that have been made here will be taken into account. Thus, this legal document will be irreprehensible. So I have every reason to put this document on the ground after the discussion. Please. [[11:27:18]] For 260, the decision is made. Oh, sorry, 252, so I have 260 on my monitor. I'm sorry. In general, can we put it to a vote? I'll bet the vote on the whole document. Taking into account an editorial that will be done immediately. [[11:27:53]] For 257 Decision taken. I voted. Let me get this straight. I'm going to write a statement right now that I voted, so don't doubt it. I mean, I'm going to make this document official. You want to hand it over yourself, that's your right. Now was the proposal of deputy Grac, his claim of destruction, vandalism at the memorial sign of Artek to submit, to form as a parliamentary request. Who's behind this proposal, I mean the content of his claims, please, I'm putting it to a vote. [[11:28:58]] For 259. In favour of the person who votes in favour of this request, please determine by vote. [[11:29:20]] For 255 I'm sorry, the decision's made. I just want to say here in additions. Even in Soviet times, called administrative, there was sometimes a dictatorship, sometimes volunteerism, and so forth, the chieftains wore royal rewards, and this was seen as a sign of man’s prowess. If the team worked conscientiously and raised thousands and thousands of children and hundreds of thousands of children, they were helped to recover and were rewarded by the previous state, only an act of vandalism could be called today and the rewards that this group has the privilege of wearing. However, in January the Supreme Council passed an appropriate law prohibiting such things. I think there's a specific performer behind this act who's been dissecting, cutting, or what, and who's ordered to do so. They must stand trial. They should be responsible for the matter. You put it all together in your document. A protocol assignment? Please. We'll prepare properly. Give the word to Catherine Semenovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u54	Yeah. Alexander Aleksandrovich, to the honor of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have considered the question of "Artec" and we have, in our determination, such a point to consider and decide on the granting of status to the National Children's Centre "Artek". This brings her out into funding with a single line, which brings her out under the subordination of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Unfortunately, this has not yet been done, but it must be accepted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I'm asking you to give us an order to send a letter to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to rescue "Artek". And that's the way it's supposed to be, because there's already a raid.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u55	Prepare your proposals in the form of documents, please, and we will consider them. Please, we've closed the question. They took that question down. Harry Vasil Grigorovitch had the replica, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, I want to make an announcement not so much for you, but for our constituents. Today, the coalition has decided that 50 people's deputies, the Soviet Union's Heroes, the Socialist Workers' Heroes, the Ukrainian Heroes, the leaders of the largest industrial enterprises are going to the President by 12 hours to extend his hand again and invite him to the negotiating table and convince him to cancel the criminal order. We remember that on 2 April we adopted a decree approving the appointment of the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk. Allow me, it's very short, I'll read it, we'll try to serve the President again if he accepts it, and if he doesn't, to the President's Secretariat. “Dear Viktor Andriyovich, on 2 April this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decision to prevent acts threatening the constitutional order, public tranquility and stability in Ukraine, to which the President of Ukraine has been reminded of the continued compliance of the Constitution of Ukraine, the irregularity of actions aimed at the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Despite the apparent unconstitutionality of such an action, the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u57	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u58	The president of Ukraine signed a decree of content. Given that the above-mentioned decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine mainly takes into account all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to resolve the conflict and achieve political compromise, I propose that you repeal its decree of 2 April 2007 on the dissolution of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Head of the Supreme Council of Frost. With such a letter, 50 people's deputies, as I have already said, will be sent to the President's Secretariat by 12 hours to deliver this address to the President himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u59	Please. It's not about the breakup, it's about the time-out. Yes. The President doesn't have the right to dissolve Parliament, he has the right to issue a decree on time-limits, he has the right to terminate powers on time-bound terms on the basis of 90 articles of the Constitution and only 90 articles of the Constitution. He didn't use it. All of it. We're done. I understand. Please, the draft Law on Basic Principles for the Protection of Commercial Activities, a Commercial Secret in Ukraine. A project entitled Anatoly Ivanovich’s Seminoga is under consideration. Is it? Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please. I'm asking you to answer the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u60	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! I want to demonstrate once again the policy of double standards demonstrated by today's party of authorities. It would seem that here, from the rostrum and from the squares, and on television, they say that they are willing to make social bills that should improve, improve people's standards of living and actually do everything the other way around. Yesterday I was simply struck by Mrs. Timoshenko's cynicism when she, speaking on TV on the “5 channel”, told the whole country, saying there was no problem with funding. We've got 500 million in reserve. But you were the Prime Minister, most surely you were seven months later, and you washed out of that chair. You have to understand that this 500 million is needed in case of an emergency! Some kind of catastrophe, some kind of earthquake, some kind of flood, and then what are we gonna do?Oh, my God! It's like losing a casino. It's the same thing as leaving an election. Now, with regard to today's bill. Author of one Seminoga – BUTT, from Bondar Committee - Our Ukraine. In the hall, I'm talking to the voters, I'm telling you, they've been gone for a month! Where are they going? They drink beer, they walk on the street, but they get paid! Yesterday I'm going to the Supreme Council, and I'm looking at a line from BUTO and our Ukraine. I think maybe they're signing some kind of document. They're in the cash register behind the salary! Even if it was a conscience, we didn't get it, yeah! It's not possible to go through, yes! It's not in the hall. It's not enough that they're not here. It's also a lobbyist law. Therefore, I propose that this law be repealed, not adopted today. When these idles return to the hall, let him tell you where he was, what he was doing, and on what grounds the lobbyist law sends to the deputies, yes. What's he lobbying? What are the people's interests here?Oh, my God! Thank you. I propose to postpone consideration of the bill without. The author, and without the people's representative, who runs the bill on the committee, is not to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u61	What questions? Wait, Mikhail Vasilovich. Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u62	I'm asking you to give the committee's head, Catherine Samuelk, and she'll say two words on the procedure, and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u63	Mikhail Vasilovich, don't run the Supreme Council meetings, there's someone here to do that. Okay? Please, Baburin. Why do they ask you questions about your report?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u64	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. I fully agree with your emotional statement and assessment of the activities of the so-called opposition deputies. Today, one of the factories would have tried for a disrespectful reason not to go to work, one of those who is working today. His master would've thrown him in his neck twice already. That's why I have an offer for all the deputies. We will not be able to address many issues with you if there is such an approach. We have to go back. There are no committee leaders today. We need to return and revise the staff of the leaders of the High Council committees so that we can fully carry out legislative activities. Your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u65	We, at first, supported it, if the people's MP didn't want to work for a constructive and, more importantly, he headed the committee, of course, he shouldn't be the head of the committee. And the chairman of the committee should be the person, regardless of party affiliation, who organizes normal legislative work, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u66	Please, Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u67	Adam Ivanovich, now giving an interview in the towers of the Supreme Council. He has also been absent from the meeting room for more than three weeks. It's not a simple MP, it's a people's MP, it's a vice-president. And I'm offering it at all. We have bills in the preparation of a plan for the consideration of issues, issues that are initiated by the representatives of BUTT and our Ukraine, which are not present in this room, not to consider or to put them in order of the day.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u68	But I'll answer that. I agree a little bit on the part of idleness, the evaluation of idleness. But I do not agree with others that if some people are unemployed, the representatives of BUTT and our Ukraine are getting paid and they are not going to work, that does not mean that the Ukrainian people should suffer, and we must not take decisions in part of normal laws. The normal law must be considered. And people need to know that, in fact, there is a policy of double standards: TV says one thing about us is that we're people, and we don't actually beat the finger. No, the only thing they get is money. As the great Arkady Rikin said in his day: Excuse me, but twice to the eye I and the dead creep to get paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u69	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u70	Dear Michael Vasilovich and Adam Ivanovich. I'm even proposing that this bill be drafted. I'll tell you why. Because it is written out of a similar bill of the Russian State word for word, Adam Ivanovich. And she will have the honour and conscience to simply translate it and give it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Excuse me, this is already the intellectual property of another person, another state. That's why I have this offer. And a second offer. This law applies to intellectual property, as does two laws on technology parks. But somehow we still have, Adam Ivanovich, bills to go against the subjects of committee knowledge. We'll have to write them off anyway, and we'll have to draft the bill. And ashamed of the Ukrainian people's deputies. True, they are not ashamed, they are millionaires, they will continue to rob, including those who have come to support us today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u71	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, let's do this when we're talking about questions, let's talk about questions. And what someone did to someone was a disgrace. It's a shame, of course, but unfortunately we don't have a record in the Rules, or there's no record in any law anywhere that the Supreme Council has no right to consider bills that are written from somewhere -- morals, morals, who submits. This is one moment. One second. I don't think the lack of the author of the legislative initiative, again, gives us the right not to consider this bill. Let's take a look at it and make the decision that we can make, it'll be absolutely right. With regard to committee work, heads. You, those who speak, are absolutely right about the fact that the heads of the committees, who receive more wages than just national deputies, have to work on this salary. When we get back to these procedures, we're going to look at who as heads performed their functions, and the right of the Supreme Council to recall any of the Supreme Council officials from their positions. To that end, the rules of the Rules or the decision of the committee itself to recall the committee’s head, or the number of votes required by the national deputies, the signatures that make such a proposal, are 150, and the Supreme Council may already consider it. But that is not the question of today. Please register with the factions who would like to participate in the discussion of this bill. Please, Matthew from the faction. Who else wants people's deputies? Valentin Grigorovitch Matthews of the Communist faction, please. A helicopter to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u72	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! First of all, I want to support the opinion of my colleague Katerina Semina Samojlik that even in the development of these or other draft legislative acts, the Ukrainian National Deputy, the national electorate should have a very basic civil conscience, I don't say anything about another conscience. He must have a moral right to otherwise form the position of a bill. Well, let it be on the author's conscience. As far as his essence is concerned. Yes, indeed, we need to settle today with a special legislative act the issue of relations in the field of commercial secrecy. But by making proposals in this legislative act, the author of the bill, these fundamentals of intellectual property rights to commercial secrecy as the definition of subjects of this right, the order and conditions of use of commercial secrecy, the validity of intellectual property rights to commercial secrecy, it does not include at all. So this project is such a basic, I would say, fundamental positions, they're not being considered. I think we should have pointed out that the bill does not correspond to article 421 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, according to which intellectual property rights are subject to intellectual property rights by the creator or creators of intellectual property rights and other persons belonging to personal immaterial and intellectual property rights. I think we should have looked at the conclusion of a science-expert management, which underlines that because the key concept of the project is a commercial secret, and not information that constitutes a commercial secret, and the deadline for access to information that constitutes a commercial secret, the transfer of information, the provision of information that constitutes a commercial secret and other relevant terms in this project should be replaced by a clearer one. So I don't think we can take it that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u73	Thank you. Catherine Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u74	First of all, I'd like to ask the ruling, if it's good for the coalition, to give a commission and a profile committee, because the question that we're looking at is intellectual property, and it's the Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council of Ukraine that's taking care of these issues. This is the first time. It's different. We just recently, two weeks ago, we did parliamentary readings where we were listening. where we've been looking at the pressing issues, the acute issues that have to do with protecting the intellectual property of our country, because now, for example, we know that our Antonov is not ours at all, because he's assigned this brand to a French citizen of France, and he's using it to the full, realizing that it's completely different in the world. The other content is understood by this brand. We have a lot of questions when we have our know-how stolen when they arise abroad. I understand it's because our legislation is not yet in agreement, that we need to work on legislation, and we've taken the first step in this. We have conducted parliamentary hearings, and we have the proper first copies of our legislation. It's just that we're not yet used to the civilized perception of the concept of “intellectual property” of our nation. This is the law that refers to intellectual property, and I think that we are together and that being first together with the Committee on Economic Policy, if there is such an order from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are working on this law. But, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, don't even make any remarks to me, but I don't think it's an honor for the Supreme Council of Ukraine to consider bills that have just been adopted in another state and have simply been translated from Russian into Ukrainian. And who, if you'll excuse me, will give us a guarantee that tomorrow we will not be brought before the European Court of Justice regarding the adoption of this law? It could all be. And so shame on nationalists, who don't even understand civilized approaches in this regard, doesn't support laws. There's only one thing for them: whether we want it or not, we go back to politics. For them the main thing is power, power and power. I think if I don't have any more support, then please make some suggestions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u75	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I reiterate the moral aspect of the question that we cannot copy laws because we are talking about a commercial secret as an intellectual property subject, and we are ignoring that property. But at the same time, the Commonwealth of Independent States is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Commonwealth of Independent States, where we work to create basic laws and so forth. I mean, it's good that they help each other. I am voting for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Basic Principles for the Protection of Commercial Secrets in Ukraine, registration number 2249. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:51:30.]] For 1 The decision is not taken, as it was taken at this session. Please, Chechtev, what did you want? Chetchev's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u76	Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! Indeed, the problem is and needs to be solved, but not by such a dirty way, and by plagiarism, and by the fact that certain elements are lobbying there and so on. Therefore, my proposal is to send for further work, to vote in favour of sending for further work to the Economic Committee, so that, together with the Committee on Science, they can make their content normal and bring the bill here for consideration so that we are not ashamed when we adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u77	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u78	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. In my speech, I said that, yes, indeed, it is necessary in general to solve this problem, and there is no doubt. But, indeed, this is no way to resolve it, dishonestly, because of plagiarism, you will not solve such questions. So this is our next offer. Don't even point it at pre-processing. But to each of the national members of the national parliaments, to those working on the two committees, to take up the problem, to draft a new bill, and to bring it to the Supreme Council. Yes, indeed, it is necessary. But in another way, we should prepare and consider it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u79	Thank you. We are acting in accordance with the Rules. Since the law under consideration did not receive the required 226 votes but received only one vote, it is considered a withdrawal from the current session. If the National MP of Seminog wants to draft a bill, let him make it, we will consider it in the next session. But I'm using my colleagues' suggestions, and I'm talking to two committees, because here, really, the problem and the Committee on Economic Policy, and even more, the issue of the Committee on Science and Education, as it's the right of intellectual property, and by distribution it belongs to them, to go out on the initiative and prepare a good bill to settle these issues. This is the right and opportunity of each of the 450 deputies. I'm in trouble here, my dear colleagues, I can't see. And the bill has been removed. A draft Law on the Agricultural Census, registration number 2833, is under consideration. Reports the head of the Committee’s subcommittee on agrarian policy and land relations, Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Today, I have the pleasure and honour to present to you a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Census, registration number 2833, developed by a working group composed of national deputies, experts in Statekomstatistics, Ministry of Economics, Scientists and Initiated, that is, a group of deputies, including a reporter. The bill under consideration aims to create legal principles for the organization and conduct agricultural censuses as the main tool for statistical study of the real state and structure of agricultural production. If we refer to international experience, it should be noted that the total volume of salt is more than 120 countries in the world with a period of 5 to 10 years. Even in most countries of the former Soviet Union, the current SND, such censuses have already been conducted except, say, Ukraine. The coordination of their implementation by the global community and the development of standard standards is carried out by the FAO Food and Agriculture Organization. And you know, a few years ago, Ukraine entered FAO as a full member, but it has not yet conducted similar censuses as a member of FAO. Not only can she do so but she is obliged to do so. So far, the country’s agricultural census has been topical, especially the last census of only cattle was, say, a year ago, but today our national farm, including, especially, agriculture, is operating in a completely different environment and has other features than that of the planned economy. The market economy is even more predictable, predictable. And especially with regard to the organization of the agricultural market today. In our census conditions, it's extremely relevant, because agriculture, the population today, is produced from 60 to two thirds and more gross products and uses almost a third of Ukraine's agricultural assets. At the same time, the Constitution of Ukraine prohibits the collection, storage, use and dissemination of any constitutional information about a person without his consent, except in cases defined by law. In addition, according to the Information Act of Ukraine, all measures that provide for the collection of personalized data also require mandatory legislative justification. So today, government statistics are being used by the population to study the structure and volume of agricultural production, especially through special sampling methods, which are to be complemented and clarified by the general census of the draft law that is being passed. Because these sample censuses are as close as they are, they're primitive that we're going to create a product balance, and because of the balance of resource requirements and other resources for agriculture, and from that we're going to form wholesale markets, and we've already adopted the law in the first reading, it's just impossible. Which is why we are both, as a state, and agriculture, and the market, and prices of disaster advise us, and this is extremely harmful for all people who have no stability, and systematic work. Thus, the drafting of this bill, in addition to constitutional rules, took into account existing legislation that regulates statistical activities, including the Ukrainian Act on State Statistics, on the All-Ukrainian Population Census, which is now fully adapted to EU legislation. And now, let me be more specific about what is actually the law, the most important provisions of this bill. The project, which contains 5 chapters, 20 articles, and final positions, defines all legal, organizational, economic, census preparation and conduct, the relationship of its subjects, their rights, responsibilities and responsibility, and, I emphasize, the State’s safeguards to protect the confidentiality of information received from respondents. This is especially important to us. Absolutely everyone here is present and doesn't know when the censuses were held and the representative of the statistics and the village council came in at a time, so always the host or the host, if he had two cabanas and porridges in his barn, he said only one pig. If he had a few, he would say yes, because he thought he had a goal: they'd rewrite it today, and they'll take it away tomorrow. So that's exactly what this law says, the confidentiality of information and what it does is for agriculture, for agriculture, for agriculture, for agriculture, for agriculture to help it implement that product and at the normal price, and thus to solve all its pressing problems. The draft law also regulates the conduct of both the general agricultural censuses and the thematic censuses. It establishes the periodicity of the census. For the general census, once every ten years, thematic ones — such as cattle, birds — will be copied once every five years. Other thematic censuses – if necessary and in the terms provided for in the bill – are allowed to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill also defines the methods and program of censuses, involving temporary staff. It sets out the standard of obligation for all, without exception, respondents to the census. The rules for the use of agricultural censuses, such as the protection I was talking about, are clearly established, the original data obtained in the process of carrying them out. It must also be emphasized, honourable national MPs, that the draft law has a framework in the sense that it only forms a legislative basis for the organizations and direct conduct of such censuses. To carry out preparatory work and conduct directly. The census by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine should be made in accordance with the law on the purpose, deadlines and technology itself, resulting from this law. In particular, it is not possible to conduct the first national agricultural census before 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude, as the main argument on this bill, I would like to say that the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Agricultural Census will allow the creation of legal principles as a fundamental improvement in quality, the quality of information on the state of agriculture, which will be used and used to develop the implementation of State regional policy in this key area of the national economy for Ukraine. Given the relevance, the specificity of the bill, its depth, its legal orientation, given that the bill has been working for several years and has been verified at all levels. And let's say it's quite quality, consistent, and it takes all the necessary weights into account for it to be carried out. And the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a statutory bill to be adopted as a basis, and if there are no more observations, they are. No, and as a whole, as a law of Ukraine, taking into account certain minor observations by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Export Authority. Please respectfully support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u81	I continue to hold meetings before the conclusion of this consideration. Are there any questions? If there is one, write it down. You don't? Yeah, right now. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u82	Dear Sergio Mikolaiovich. That's all right. We have to do the inventory we have. So far we've only got ruins and you know it. That's the result of this state policy that's been going on for years and we've come to it. Please tell me, you told me very well, along with the word market. And you said balance, foresight, that's sorry, and the planning that we need. And also the necessary planning elements, because the wild market -- we already see its results. Or is there a legal inventory, for example, of an irrigation system that doesn't know how much there is; of technical equipment, especially of our collective enterprises, because we know what wear and tear and whatnot. I mean, apart from the cattle that people in the village are holding on to, they're really holding on to that. And the technical equipment, will it match the current level or not? This is foreseen by law.?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u83	Thank you for such a specific question. Indeed, it is this bill that must overcome psychology and consciousness, and in the legislative field that primitiveism, which has been copied, passed, how many birds, cocks, sorry, grow up in the house and report, has ended. So that's where the executive power, the Cabinet of Ministers is able to do this in a complex way, and we're stressing in one of the articles that we're going to address this issue. And it's whether or not. which are fundamental questions every 10 years, but we are specific once every 5 years and based on all the necessary objective data needed to develop agriculture, produce agriculture. And I would say that, as for agriculture, we don't have to be afraid of the word "market relations" because this is the first step we've taken since the market.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u84	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Sergey Mikolaiovich, first of all, I cannot agree with you when you say today in the past, you mean in Soviet times, you'll be rewritten today, and tomorrow you'll be deprived of the produce that the peasant has grown. So it was necessary to do so because it was dictated by living conditions. This was exactly the period after the Great Homeland War and we had to pay taxes. What about today, Sergey Mikolaiovich? If we were to adopt this law and do a census, would the state -- I would ask for an answer -- really help the peasant who grew that crop, not through the middlemen in the markets, including Vladimirski, at the same “Ozerka” in Dnipropetrovsk and so on? What guarantees are there?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u86	First. Of course, when I say that there were censuses in my time, I mean not just Soviet times, but Stalin times. Then, indeed, the garden was cut off and so forth. Do you understand? So come on, we may not be going to politicize this question here, but let's just say that, objectively, I know here the story of my parents, grandmothers, grandparents who talked and were afraid to say. They were afraid to talk. Why were they afraid? There is one conclusion. I specifically say that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u87	The answer to my question. State to secure?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u88	In order for the state to provide it, it must first know how much of this product is produced and produced, and then help implement it through the system of wholesale agricultural markets. And there will be no census -- there will be no wholesale market. That's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u89	Have a seat, please. You'll have another discussion along the way. Do you want to talk about it? Sign up for factions. Who wants the MPs? Sign up for the MPs. Let's take 12 minutes. Please, Matvienkov. Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, minus one, please. No, no, he knows what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u90	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! When you observe, say, a review of some of the bills in the Supreme Council and when it comes to the fate of peasants, the soul is in pain for those who today, say, have declared to all the Ukrainian people that they will not work and will not accept the situation they need. I carefully read the bill. Of course, there are a lot of warnings here, but what we don't know today is the situation in the country, we don't know what's going on in the Ukrainian village, we don't really know, because what it is today, or what it's done earlier, is not true. The general situation in the village is quite different. The year of the village, announced by the President of Ukraine in 2006, ended in a disaster in the country. The president once again demonstrated to the villagers how he was willing to support his own producer, how he kept his word to his Ukrainians. And when he saves for the fate of Ukraine, for national unity, you wonder why the factions that the President of Ukraine is taking care of today work in parliament. I would like to express the position of the Socialist Party faction on the bill. We'll support him. He needs to be worked out. But if we don't take it and take a step in that direction, we really won't know the situation. There's another situation. The National Unity Coalition has taken great responsibility for the situation in Ukraine, including the rural situation. But tell me, what have we accepted for today? Janukovich's government, what did he accept, what was the situation in the village? If we don't do a census, if we don't figure it out, if we don't do an inventory of land, other technical equipment in the country. We're not going to know what steps we're taking forward, so you and I have to work with you as we agreed that we're adopting laws, passing them to the President, and we're obviously going to see who's behind the village, if this bill is concerned, and who's behind the presidential elections and the trough that he's lost. In my opinion, there is no turning back. The National Unity Coalition claims, and today, perhaps when I consider this bill, I would like to convey my concern that we will not allow any early elections, we will work, we will adopt laws, and we will do everything we can to make the people feel that there is a parliament, there is a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u91	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. You're absolutely right. By supporting you, I will emphasize that really, there will be no village to produce the village – it will be an empty trough to which some are torn. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u92	The Communist faction, Cibenko. Dear colleagues, our constituents! I would like to say that the Communist faction will support this document because we understand that this document is designed to support the village of Ukraine. And we understand that if we can really save the village, we will also save Ukraine. If we fail to do so, we will continue to draw that conclusion. I'd like to say the next thing. Perhaps my colleague Valentin Grigorovich Matthew's warning is right, which says that in making a census, we have to be sure that a person who grows agricultural production or animal production should be absolutely guaranteed that he will benefit from it. I want to say that, in my opinion, if you do a certain analogy, there is a census in this case. Well, let's say you use medical. Medical approaches, this is a kind of diagnosis, because treatment can't be started without a diagnosis. Therefore, it is vital that we be supportive. But, dear colleagues, given what's happening on the street in Ukraine today, I would like to make another warning. That's what this is about. Indeed, a census should be made. The agricultural census is the right thing to do. But perhaps today we need to ask the question, not directly related to this law, but we need to ask questions about the census of Ukrainian citizens. Ukraine’s last official census, which was in Soviet times in 1989, claims that there were 52.2 million Ukrainians. The question is, Who is behind the plague of 6 million citizens of Ukraine, who are behind it, and whose task is it that in this case? Therefore, my honourable colleagues, speaking of the need to adopt this law, and certainly with some caution, with some work to be done, but it should really be accepted, I would like to stress once again that we also need to decide the question of the census of the population of Ukraine, because today many who want to shed tears about the events of 30-40-50 years, and no one wants to answer for the events of today, for today's evil, for today's famine that is taking place in Ukraine. So I would like to emphasize that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u93	Thank you. Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, faction of the regions. Get ready for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u94	Mikhailo Chečetov, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters! Well, unlike the previous bill, which was drafted by the People's MP of Seminogue from the Faction of the FTL, which has not been in Parliament for a month, but is paid in good faith. But the thing is, it's the bill that. plagiarism was also part of lobbyism. And these elements of plagiarism with the legislation of another country have led to the fact that, God's anxieties, we would have accepted that he would have led us to an international scandal. This is how professionals work in BUTE and in our Ukraine. Well, what kind of professionals if they've been at work for months. They don't know what legislation is. Now, as far as this bill is concerned, serious problems have indeed been raised here. The bill was drafted by MPs from the coalition of national unity, Michael Gladys and Sergey Ryobuk. Indeed, the issue is very serious. And I think the adoption of this bill will help solve many of the problems in the development of the APC. The project defines the legal and organizational principles of the agricultural census in Ukraine, allowing for objective information needed to produce effective public policies in the agricultural field. By supporting the bill, which is intended to be the main legislative instrument for the organisation and periodic implementation of agricultural censuses, the main objective of which is to obtain objective and reliable information on the agricultural sector of the country and to provide information on governance and socio-economic forecasting, I stress the need for the development of individual provisions. Yes, the definition of general and thematic agricultural censuses, article five of the project, was logically made in article one that deals with the definition of the terms used in the project. In general, I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u95	Thank you. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences. The Communist faction supports the bill. And we believe that there is a real need for order in taking into account what Ukraine has in the agricultural sector. We Communists insist that public support for the agricultural sector should be sustained and strengthened. In order to be able to make strategic decisions, where to channel funds, how to support both farmers and private entrepreneurs, we need to understand what we are doing in this sector. However, I would like to point out that there is a huge problem with the fact that, after the destruction of the land and the destruction of the property of the former colossus, the enormous material values in the form of technology are out of hand today. Today, there are no leases on these rations, and today many people living in the countryside do not get paid for this lease, and in fact the land is being processed by this technique, and these resources are being used by unscrupulous and unscrupulous people. We therefore support this bill and propose to adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Baburin. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners, of course, the chaos in which the agro-industrial complex is located today, makes us look at the situation differently and realize that this law is absolutely necessary. And it is needed today, not just in the first, but in general. But I would like to point out that, by creating a market system in the folk farm complex, we have forgotten that the agro-industrial complex in world practice does not fall under the market relationship, because in Africa and America and Ukraine, people want to eat three times a day. And what's happening today, I think it's really making us do inventory and material and technical bases, and headquarters, and, of course, especially earth inventory. Of 34 million ore land today, I think in the country at least 5 to 6 million land is no longer known in whose hands. Today, no one can determine what kind of soul - based consumption of food in Ukraine at all. And when it comes to the extinction of the nation, we need to understand that we have a creeping famine. Because instead of three and a half thousand kilocalories, the average citizen consumes only 2.3 to 2.5 thousand kilocalories. So out of the 10 enlisters in the army, only 2 eligible people are more or less physically healthy. So I think, dear friends, we really need to adopt this law, we need to do everything we can in order to do inventory in the state, and so that the three forms of property that exist today: state cooperative and private, were clearly defined, who, by the fate of the country, and what is the main thing, we will then define, and what is the most appropriate form of property in Ukraine. And if we do that, I think this law will give us an opportunity to analyse the situation and possibly adopt the Agribusiness Production Act since 2008. It's going to be a system that's not just going to be able to fill the budget and feed the Ukrainian people, it's going to be a system that will allow us to join the WTO as a full-fledged state in the world co-pilot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u99	Thank you. Question completed. We'll make decisions. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Agricultural Census Act, registration number 2833. Please vote. [[12:23:38]] For 253 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we were in charge, a group of national deputies went to the President. Who Is Ready to Inform? Hara? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u100	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Just an hour ago, from this rostrum, I informed you that the coalition had decided and delegated 50 people's deputies, 50 deputies who represent, indeed, the elite of our society. These are the heroes of the Soviet Union, the heroes of Ukraine, the heroes of socialism, the deputies who, prior to the delegation, headed the regional councils of the major areas, they were governors, they were city heads, they were leaders of the largest enterprises, they were young people, they were the hope of our State. That is, if you look at the list, well, that's Ukraine's pride. I must report to you that for the first time in history, perhaps not just Ukraine, but the entire international community of people's deputies in the number of fifty have not even been released at the threshold of the President's Secretariat. When we approached the President's Secretariat, the doors closed. Well, they started off so soft, they knocked. They asked us to wait a minute. We waited three minutes. Deputy Head of the Secretariat, Bondar Viktor Vasiljevic, is leaving. I ask, "Why don't you let go? Why is the door closed?" This has never been the case, even under the most vicious regimes, as they call it. He says: "The fact is that you have no authority. You're no longer deputies. That's why we won't let you in." Well, I asked you a question, well, let's not be deputies. Can Ukrainian citizens be admitted to the President's Secretariat? He was wrong, he didn't say anything. When asked what kind of education you have and how you can work here, he said I had two educations, including a legal one. This unfortunate person does not know, and we understand now why such cataclysms are taking place in the President's Secretariat, why such unprofessionals are allowed to work in a highly respected structure for any State, the Secretariat of the President. A man who doesn't know the Constitution. I tell him, "Well, Victor Andreevich doesn't know the Constitution, even though he's a guarantor, he hasn't read it. As you carry it, he believes it's written like that. He has no time to read certain articles. But like you, just as a young man, not as a lawyer, why didn't you ask yourself, well, first of all, it's a criminal order. In accordance with article of the Constitution, no one has the right to comply with a criminal order. It is not enough that those who have signed this order and those who have carried it out are responsible for the matter.” I say, "Well, fine. Let's even say you've duly dissolved the Supreme Council. But do you not know that, in accordance with the Constitution, not with the President's decree, but with the Constitution, the powers of the people's deputies continue until the adoption and oath of this rostrum and the deputies of the sixth assembly?" And what other strange things we've heard from him that the President can't meet here, sorry for the expression, with such a generation, you're very many. He meets with party leaders, he meets with factions leaders and so on. And since he represents, listen, the President of Ukraine! He represents some political power, and in fact he chooses who he should communicate with, who he should not communicate with. Of course, we explained to this young man, well, to the best of our ability to contain our emotions, we told him that unlike your political power, we would not storm as they did, we would not beat the glass. And despite the fact that he didn't represent anyone at all, and we had a mandate to do so, we gave him the documents that we were supposed to hand over to the President, well, at the very least to the head of the secretariat. By the way, both the President and the head of the secretariat are in the President's secretariat building. We still told him the following. Even though you are. People of war, you have declared to us, Parliament, war, you have declared war on all the people, we have done and we will take steps to meet. We will invite the President to sit at the negotiating table, to enter into the legal process, to act in full compliance with the Constitution, to replace not only the illegal one, but the criminal decree to eliminate the supreme legislature and we are prepared to sit at the negotiating table. We have documents, we have a decree where we go to concessions on the requirements that the President has formally issued before the adoption of the decree. We are ready to consider, we are ready to compromise and we will do so. But I also said on your behalf that we will no longer act indefinitely liberally. Because those people in the territories we represent here in the city of Kiev in the square, they will not forgive us another surrender to such hawks of power. And if you don't understand the language of the world, we'll find other means to convince you criminals that you're wrong. And we will do so within the Constitution and within the law. And finally, I want to say, we did what we were asked to do. But unfortunately, as some deputies said: Vasilic, don't serve, it's like handing over the cleaning lady of the President's Secretariat. Because. Yeah, right, maybe the janitor's got a little bit more consciousness than that, they do. People understand the situation, the extent to which our State is located. That is why we have accomplished our task. And there is a proposal for people's deputies to be asked who will speak in all areas with our people's voters, please inform them of our next baptism to the President's Administration, to the secretariat and that these people will not accept the language of peace to date. They want to talk to us in the language of war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u101	Thank you, Vasil Grigorovitch. Well, by rephrasing the well-known expression of the first President of the State, you might say that we have those who have been bred. And the cleaning lady's better off handing it over, because at least she has the opportunity to enter the President's office. Those who have met you are unlikely to get there. And to the lawyer for second education, if you believe what he has told you, because he has no time, they are busy with anti-constitutional actions, let him take the official publication of the Parliamentary Publications of the Constitution, which was published in 2006, open the 41st page and read article 81, which states: “The approval of the Ukrainian National Deputy is suspended on a time-by-time basis also in the event of a timely termination according to the Constitution of Ukraine of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” They don't have time for this. All of it. There's a break to 13 o'clock. After that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u102	Dear colleagues! Please come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. As I promised you, please, from Babourin's procedure. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u103	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Dear Adam Ivanovich! We regularly refer here to article 60 of the Constitution and let us be consistent. These are the bonds that will continue to appear, which will severely violate the Constitution and must be constantly reminded of the responsibility that a citizen must bear for violating the Constitution. Therefore, all these facts must be followed. Today we must submit to the Attorney-General's Office for a grave violation of the Constitution. And everyone must know that the crime must be punished. I would ask that we form this farce for 50 people's deputies, and all our supporters must continue to stand on the protection and protection of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u104	Thank you. A fair observation. I think we're going to ask the Temporary Special Commission, which we created with you, to investigate how the authorities of the State are enforcing laws and complying with the Constitution. We've created such a commission before. One of the reports is already this commission to us, if I'm not mistaken, Hara headed this commission, he's already informed the Supreme Council about how the law and the Constitution are in place in Ukraine. I think that's exactly what we're giving the committee's protocol commission to monitor the current situation and to identify those violators and those who ignore the laws and the Constitution that allow it to take appropriate action within the framework of the law. Dear colleagues! We need to put a decision in the agenda and make a decision, at the request of the President, who defined it as an urgent, draft law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the armed forces of other States to enter Ukraine in 2007 to participate in multinational military training. Registration number 3270. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, for inclusion. Vote. [[13:03:33]] For-33 Dear colleagues, I'm not aspiring to discuss the issue, that is, the decision-making process. It's about putting it into the agenda to put it into the agenda. And what will be our decision on the matter is another matter. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? Is there a need to exchange? Yes, dear colleagues, once again, please be more careful, dear colleagues, it's about the fact that the President of the State has addressed the Supreme Council, he has such a right, he has such a right to consider his bill, to consider his bill, to consider his bill as urgent. And that's why we're going to do the right thing if we're going to put this bill into the agenda today. This is Bill No. 3270, the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the forces of other states to Ukraine in 2007 to participate in multinational military training. Who's in favour of coming back, please vote. Vote. [[13:05:13]] For 236 Turn around. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the Ukraine Presidential Approval Act on the admission of other States' military forces in Ukraine in 2007 to participate in multinational military training. Registration number 3270. Please vote. [[13:05:48]] For 245 Included in the agenda. Let's get to it. The reporter is Minister of Defense of Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. And he was asked to speed up the consideration of the matter. Somehow I don't see him. Then let's do it. First Deputy Head of the National Security and Defence Committee Samylenko Yuri Pavlovich. Please. What was the opinion of the committee, and was it considered?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u105	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! A few words of the absence of the Minister of Defence as the main rapporteur for the bill. Literally one and a half hours ago, he called the head of the subcommittee present here, Gnatenko Lviv Nikolaevich, and asked, in connection with such a difficult political situation, to postpone consideration of this, let's say, a sinister question to a later date. Not to mention when, not to mention what we'll be looking at. Although I can report to you the opinion of the Committee on National Security and Defence. We have considered this issue carefully, and we have decided unanimously to support it. Why? Because, already in April, exercises with the Russian Federation are planned for 5 days as part of bilateral Ukrainian-Russian exercises. [[They're military airmen.]] In addition, exercises with the Kingdom of Belgium are planned in May-July as well as three other exercises with the participation of the United States of America and other States under international agreements. This is "Repid Trading 2007", "Si Breez 2007" and "CombinEffort 2007". That means why we justified the committee's decision to support the bill. Well, I will not speak of the international authority of our State, that training is necessary to increase the security of our army, where we perceive it. I will not refer to the economic component of this exercise, where no additional exercises will be required other than those provided for in the 2007 budget of the Ministry of Defence. On the contrary, we will. Additional funds, financial revenues to the national economy through the provision of related work and services to foreign States for the training period. More detailed information on each of the exercises is provided in a package of documents distributed to you under the bill. Participation in these exercises and the manner in which they are conducted in Ukraine are governed by relevant legislation, including the Ukrainian law on the manner in which the armed forces of other State territories are admitted and the Ukrainian law on the ratification of agreements between States parties to the Partnership for Peace programme concerning the status of their armed forces and the additional protocol thereto. As well as plans for international cooperation between the armed forces of Ukraine and the defence agencies of the partner countries. Therefore, of course, the members of the committee, in resolving the issue of State importance, we make a decision at our meeting that policy is not being considered by us on the committee, we are moving it, so to speak, to the political floor, in the sessional room, and we have voted unanimously to support it. To support this bill. I don't understand, either myself or the other members of the committee, the position of the main contracting officer is Mr. Gritsenko, Minister of Defence, on this issue, who has not even allowed himself to come and explain or send his deputy. I've got everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u106	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yeah, let's take 10 minutes. Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u107	Indeed, it is very interesting why the Minister of Defence, responsible for the fighting of our Armed Forces, for the ability of our Armed Forces to cooperate with the forces of neighbouring States in protecting our homeland, ignores these teachings. And do you not think that this is related to the fact that it is not in a position to carry them out now, since all the troops involved in the exercise are gathered at the right-hand level to possibly oppose the people of Ukraine in the protection of their rights as defined in the Constitution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u108	Thank you for asking. I and the members of the Committee have no information other than Mr. Gritsenko's statement that he is prepared to comply only with the orders of the High Commander, and there is no other information. But on the Right, which I know very well, there are those established military connections that are based on the terms of their peaceful stay on the site.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u109	Matvienkov, please, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u110	Matvienkov, Socialist faction. The distinguished rapporteur, that a doctrine or strategy for the development or work with the army has been carried out in recent years, is a markedly unarmed eye. So the outside line was what? Deploy the army, bring it to a level of incompetence. In order to then spread your hands and say, people, you see, our army is unable to carry out the security tasks of the country today. Let us invite an external factor that will give us the protection of borders. Today, this is followed by a red thread. That's why we're here to teach our army. We're for having the defence capabilities of our army. We understand that no one wants to feed their own army, to feed another's. That is a very clear statement, a confirmation of that fact. But the question. Please tell me, have you analyzed why this is the type of training? How was a learning partner selected? Why is the United States chosen three or four times by one and a half thousand people, Russia, which is generally a strategic partner in this regard, and should be four aircraft once and for all?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u111	The question is, of course, interesting. I can say that the Ministry of Defence has been a subcommittee during the past year, and the Committee as a whole has been given very considerable attention. And I can report to the High Assembly that, in general, these exercises are provided for by the Master Plan, which is being developed by the General Staff of Ukraine. What has been challenging to us is the surprise of the members of the Committee when a budget resolution is being decided, proposals are being made by the Ministry of Defence, and the Minister of Defence is also very actively involved, who personally comes to defend his proposals, as well as his other deputy ministers. Well, when it comes to when we're interested in how these funds are spent, unfortunately, we don't understand each other here. So I can't confirm or deny your assumption that we don't need such an army, that we have to move on to a normal army.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u112	Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u113	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Yuri Pavlovich, answer two questions. You have just said that all these exercises, all of which were approved by the relevant plan of the General Staff of Ukraine. Can you name the date of approval, that is, when the programme was adopted? And the second question. It is said that these exercises will include military personnel from Belgium, the United States of America, who are also known as weapons of war and military equipment. Inform Ukrainian citizens what is a military weapon if, for example, 450 or 1,000 soldiers are here at these exercises? What is a state-of-the-art weapon and what technology is intended to be used?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u114	Thank you. Well, according to the plans of work of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff is aware that plans are being developed in accordance with, in particular, exercises involving foreign States, in accordance with international treaty obligations prior to the previous year. I mean, he was at the college, and the plan was approved in 2006. With regard to military personnel and the number of troops, this is also in line with those joint exercises plans that have already been developed and approved by both the Minister of Defence, the Chief of General Staff and the respective heads of the military departments of those countries that are involved. Staffing is what is meant to achieve the objective of the task set, the ultimate objective of these exercises. That is, the goal is to work together, it's a means of communication, it's an instrument of communication, it's a weapon that's necessary, we're allowed to dissant, depending on the task that's faced by the military, they're different in different exercises if it's done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u115	Babourin Alexi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u116	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. I would like to draw our voters' attention, first of all, to the timing of the first exercises, second, even with the involvement of the armed forces of the Kingdom of Belgium, this is May-July. This is the farce that they have started with the elections today, and it is precisely the timing that coincides with the holding of these elections and post-election cases. That's why I'm asking you as a specialist, I'm giving you water like that, and you're answering. During or after the elections, the same orange attacks, attempts, imitations, and then the 270 will turn into 27,000. This will be the full right of that State to protect its own, let us say, soldiers who will participate, Belgian citizens who will participate in these actions. Deny or confirm my fears.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u117	Thank you for giving me a great appreciation for the specialist in this area. I'm actually a specialist in another field, in the work of the special services. But not me, I ran the military counter-intelligence, I know the needs of our army. Theoretically, what you assume is all possible. But, dear colleagues, let us not impose this, anything theoretically possible. But I think it's enough for our people to come to a logical conclusion. Challenges? They can be provocations. It is our job not to allow these provocations. Therefore, our committee is constantly reading the monitoring of incoming information regarding the subject matter of our committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u118	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u119	Thank you. The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear Yuri Petrovich, as we have come to apologize, Pavlovich, as we have learned in the last two days of the telephone calls coming to us, members of the Communist faction and the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine, from the parents of the military officers who are currently serving in the “Rights” military service, given now or given an order to detain the demobilization of our boys. Perhaps the National Security and Defence Committee, which you now present in this high hall, is still a professional, has already wondered whether it knows anything about what such an order is given, who has signed it, who are being persecuted, first of all? Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u120	A corresponding request from our committee sent to the Ministry of Defence, that is, plus we have tried orally to find out this question, which is what Lev Nikolaevich can confirm. Unfortunately, there is no clear answer to that question. This delay is explained by a new appeal, a new appeal, so it is postponed somewhere, after April 10th, although by the logic of the matter, I fully agree with you. You know on the Passover canon and our children they would like to spend with their parents in their homeland, not in the barracks sweeping the floor there, so on and so forth. That is why the question is being raised and I would like to ask him too if the Minister of Defence was high on this rostrum, and I would be happy to ask him a question. That's why you don't have it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u121	Gunatenko Lev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u122	Dear Yuri Pavlovich, I think my question and your answer are for the televised. The decision to hold a series of these exercises was taken by the National Security and Defence Council, which included the Head of Parliament, who had recently been expelled from the Council. The decision was therefore taken and considered. And the Minister of Defence urged that it be considered as soon as possible. And the President insisted on dealing with this issue in an extraordinary manner. Today, the Minister of Defence requests that this issue be removed. Who do you think will be personally responsible to the international public for the collapse of the teachings approved by the Council of National Security and Defence?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u123	The answer was in your question. Who approved the plan and recommended a positive decision to the Supreme Council. I will say even more, the Minister of Defence personally reported this issue to the visiting committee and urged the committee members to consider it as soon as possible at a regular meeting of the Supreme Council so as not to repeat the conflict in the exercises that took place in Feodosia at the time when the decree of the President concerned was issued and there was, so to speak, no legal support for it. I therefore believe that the Minister of Defence, who has not come to the meeting of the Supreme Council today, must be personally responsible, and I have here to answer the questions for him, as well as the National Security Council, which is headed by our guarantor of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u124	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. Have a seat, please. With regard to some of these comments and suggestions with all due respect to the minister of defense, he cannot ask for a transfer or postponement. As I emphasize again, the application was made by the President of Ukraine and turned to his immediate consideration. If there was a motion from the President of Ukraine to move the matter forward, then our response might be appropriate. And the Secretary of Defense here has nothing to do with his request, and he has to follow the President's instructions that he has been authorized to report this bill and appear at a meeting of the Supreme Council when these bills are being considered. As far as the information is concerned. Indeed, he published what Gnatenko said about the removal of the Head of the Supreme Council from the National Security and Defence Council. The President’s decree appeared yesterday, but this decree is just for history because I read article 107 of the Ukrainian Constitution: “The National Security and Defence Council is formed by the President of Ukraine. The National Security and Defence Council is composed of: Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Head of Security of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs. Furthermore, as far as we are concerned, the Supreme Council and the Head: “The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine may be represented by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” Since the Council of National Security and Defence is an organ of the President, and since we have a power distribution, and the Supreme Council does not walk at all under the President, if there is a wish in the Head of the Supreme Council to come to the meetings of the Council of National Security and Defence, 107 articles of the Constitution give him that right, and he can come to the meetings without being or needing to be a formal member of this body, because it is a presidential, sorry, institution, institution, institution, and we are fortunately not going, and it is good that we are not going. Who would like to participate in the faction discussion, please sign in. From the MPs, if there's a wish. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you want 10. Well, 30 minutes -- that'll be too much, give me 21 minutes anyway. Please, Antipov, the faction “Timoshenko Block”. From where? Please, the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished deputies! Antipov Oleg Nikolaevich. On the National Security and Defence Committee, to which I am the Secretary, we have discussed this subject in detail and carefully. I want to address you as a professional soldier whose entire life has been in military aviation, and I want you to understand what I'm talking about. Of course, the training and fighting capabilities of our army are, in general, at the lowest level and there is no blame for those who ruled the State before us, and we have not yet invested so much money with you in the army, especially in military training, which involves the driving of tanks, the shooting of artillery weapons, small arms, helicopter flights, aircraft, and the work of serious elements of military training. Thus, when we discuss such a decision on the committee, we have come to appreciate that we have a wealth of experience in participating in such cooperation as cooperation for peace, where our military pilots, tanks, artists acquire some experience and gain new knowledge. You know, that's just not the way it works. On the other hand, we are learning some of the work of NATO specialists, and we are passing on our certain skills and knowledge. I mean. That's what I'd like to say. We are not saying that we are solving the issue of NATO today or tomorrow, we are not talking about what we can expect tomorrow or the next day at these exercises, I understand this problem raised by the previous deputies. The challenge is that there are certain international treaties of ours, there are certain rules under which we live in our civilization. And you and I understand very well that our soldiers are making the practical experience that we cannot give them with you sitting here in the hall. That's why I'm addressing you. Please support the National Security and Defence Committee in this regard and allow our military and foreign troops to participate in the exercises in our territory. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u126	Thank you. Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich. Get ready for the E.R.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u127	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, our constituents! Unless today we can agree with the reporter's conclusion, first of all, that -- I mean from the National Security and Defence Committee -- that we need training. Whether we need it today at a time when the political situation in Ukraine has deteriorated dramatically. I think we should all conclude that we don't need that kind of training. It's a rhetorical question, but I think the answer to it is only one: no! First of all, I would like to draw the attention of the honourable voters once again to what my colleagues, the members of our Communist faction, have said about the terms of teaching and the number of military personnel who will take part in them, that is, in these multinational military trainings, in participation. Yes, it is. Sorry about that Russian word, it's more appropriate now, for the "sustainment" we're offered to conduct joint military training with the Russian Federation up to four warplanes for five days in April of this year. Next. Think about it! Next, in May and July, the Kingdom of Belgium, with its weapons and military equipment, has up to 270 military personnel for a term of up to 20 days. And then in July and August, it's the participation of United States military and other states with weapons and military equipment to 450 military personnel. And again, for this term, practically, in July-August, military training with the participation of Americans and other states -- up to a thousand military personnel with weapons and military equipment up to 15 ships and submarines. Do we not understand why all of this is being done, why was this planned? That's why I'm bringing you back to that explanatory note that applied to the President's submission. I mean, look at the financial and economic justification and the forecast of the socio-economic consequences of approving the adoption of the law. I'm asking you not to support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u128	Please, Lev Mikolaiovich Gnatenko, "Our Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u129	I'd like to start by asking each of you to take our position as legislators, who should require all of us to comply with the laws that we have enacted. There is an appropriate legislative framework that determines that States that have signed a treaty must comply with that treaty. That is why I think that it would be wrong for Parliament, especially in today's situation, if we were to go against the laws that we have enacted with you. Let us therefore reconsider whether to vote in favour of the bill or not to vote. I'll get back to that at the end of my speech. Today I'm going to answer a few questions. Today's exercises have been held for many years in Ukraine, from 7 to 8 years. Belgium and the other States are not our rivals, they are using our polygonal base and are indeed contributing financial resources to Ukraine's economy. I assure you as Lieutenant General of the Armed Forces of Ukraine that none of these exercises poses a minor threat to the sovereignty of our Ukraine. None. It is simply a fulfilment of the commitments undertaken by Ukraine as a State at the time of the signing of bilateral agreements on military and military technical cooperation between States parties or simply between the armies that have signed a bilateral treaty. So I want to say this. During the course of these exercises, the most difficult question they are asking today is the Sybris exercises that are planned to be held in the Crimea. Thus, 1,000 people are truly large. But these exercises are attended, attended by 15 States, including Bulgaria, Romania, Georgia, Turkey, observers from the Russian Federation and so on. I mean, it's one of them. I didn't kick your ass. Of these 1,000 people, there will be approximately 300, 250 and 300 on the ground. All others are service personnel of those vessels who will participate in these exercises. That's why I don't see much danger here either, even though it's the Seabris, it's the Crimea, and that's the problems we need to solve. Today the issue arises that the Minister of Defence has requested the annulment of the decision. Let's be clear with you. If we make this decision today, it is a problem to sign this decree, the decision of the Supreme Council or not to sign on to the President of Ukraine. In this situation, let him decide. As legislators, we have adopted a decision that meets the requirements of the law that we have adopted. And the President's task is to sign or not to sign. In this situation, he is personally responsible for the failure of the exercises defined by our international treaties. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u130	Thank you, Leo Mikolaiovich. Please, Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Behind him is Samilik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u131	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected radio listeners. You know that our President sleeps and rises up with the same thought as he does in spite of the will of 80 per cent of the population of Ukraine, who do not want to join NATO, to force Ukraine into NATO, motivated by the fact that we have a dark, dark people, understand nothing. It is not clear to me today that the Minister of Defence, who swore allegiance to the President on the Bible today, did not come to support what the President is doing both day and night to integrate with NATO. I do not understand how today the two political forces, BUT and Our Ukraine, who say that they are the President's support, have ignored the President's initiative today in the adoption of the law on the conduct of exercises in Ukraine. Well, I can see why, as far as BUT and our Ukraine are concerned, there have been cuts. It began with a split, that already a part, and most politicians, serious politicians, understands that the course taken by extremists who lead both BUT and Our Ukraine leads Ukraine to disaster. I do not rule out that a large group of serious politicians from BUT and our Ukraine will be speaking on television to the Ukrainian people in order to bring together and protect the constitutional order, understanding from within where we are going, and that can lead to what. Today, the President is unfortunately not free to make decisions. It's objective. On the one hand, he's being pushed by a party of wars, and he didn't want to, and I honestly believe he didn't want to sign an anti-constitutional decree, but the party of war insisted, psychologically insisted, and he signed it. He's not free. Do you know how America today psychologically affects us to join NATO? The Congress decides, knowing that 80 per cent of the population of Ukraine opposes joining NATO, it decides how to support the leadership of the country so that Ukraine joins NATO more quickly. Well, now let's look at the quantity, who's going to participate? So five Russian aircraft are launched for three hours and a regiment and 15 ships for three months. And, most importantly, in the summer. And here you may also know that, according to Timoshenko's plan, since the election is not going to take place, the whole country will be up in flames, and someone will have to answer. And according to Timoshenko's plan, the President will be responsible and there will be early presidential elections in the summer! And we do not need two regiments and 15 NATO ships to psychologically push for free presidential elections in the summer, we will conduct them honestly and freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u132	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u133	Thank you very much. I want to turn to our officers, our military officers, we understand everything, we understand that as long as the Soviet Army, the Navy, we have actually been taught, we have been taught, we have been taught by countries that have been part of the socialist system, the countries of the Warsaw Treaty. All of this was, but was stability, inviolable and inviolable national interests of Ukraine, and no one has ever called for order in their own country. Now, I am looking at a break, the Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is speaking, and he says that unfortunately, we cannot deal with this problem on our own, which has been created by art in Ukraine and that we need strength from outside. We've seen them! We already saw them during the Orange Revolution. I don't know who it could have just left indifferent, and it was me when I rode and fought, and now. By the way, Kwasnevski, when the Baltic presidents came, when the Americans came and taught us all that we did not do the wrong thing, that we made the wrong President a bet that he was not the one that we had to put in other brains, we had to make ourselves think differently, act differently, live differently. We're on our own land. You and I don't have any airfields. We were born here, our umbilical cord was buried here, our children and grandchildren were born here. And today, at a very tragic time for Ukraine, when the President of Ukraine went against the Constitution, he went against his people, against the national interests of Ukraine, and submitted to the title of the Trinity, which would destroy him. We have no right to call and allow anyone. By our own rules, by our own custom in our family, we will make our own arrangements. Therefore, there is doubt that all of this can be decreed, but today is not the time. I don't think we can vote for this today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u134	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u135	Respectable colleagues, respected voters of Ukraine. We are here with you to represent the supreme legislative body of the country, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. As a human being, I find it offensive that the Supreme Council, the supreme legislative body of the country, is being used to the extent and necessity that it is needed. What do I mean? In due course, that part of Parliament, that part of the Supreme Council, which represents a party of wars, and unfortunately, they are also in our Hall, has decided in due course to send a Ukrainian military contingent to Kuwait, only to Kuwait. These people were found in Iraq. The Supreme Council did not take that decision. Who sent, on what basis, who will be responsible for the deaths of our soldiers that occurred in Iraq during the fighting? That's what I mean when I say they're trying to use the Supreme Council. I want to make a proposal. Of course, the document presented today cannot be supported. But I do have a counter-offer -- let Mr. President issue a supplement to his decree, which he decided to terminate the Supreme Council's mandate early. A separate item will be a permit for the admission of foreign military units in Ukraine. But he will make a note: commit the leadership of the authorized military contingent to defeat the orange forces in the elections. At least it's not going to look very legal, but at least it's going to be fair. Then it will be understood who, for what, and for what purpose, these military contingents are invited. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u136	Thank you. Weaver Alexander Mikolaiovich. Alexandrovsky gives the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, if not for today's political situation in Ukraine, perhaps parliament could agree. [[Well, without communists, we never support joint learning and for political reasons, you know.]] But I draw your attention to the impossibility of making a positive decision on what grounds. Here my colleagues have already talked about the number of foreign soldiers who will be here since July. Really July-August month. Look at the map of Ukraine, it's right in front of you. The Chernigov region, the Desna range, will be home to 270 Belgian military personnel with military equipment. And obviously, it's not more than 100-150 kilometers from Kiev, it's a school shooting. At that time, if, according to Timoshenko's plan, there will be elections on 27 May, usually a month and a half, you know how the Supreme Council usually works since the elections on 15 May, the Supreme Council should begin its work during the month and a half. This means exactly July-August, exactly those 25 days at the time, at which time these Belgian soldiers, the soldiers of the United States of America, 450 people, 25 days -- also July-August, and in the Crimea, all the way to the submarine, warships in the Crimea. You won't think that Ukraine is being taken in pliers from the North and the South. Crimea The Autonomous Republic is politically active, has recently passed a referendum against NATO, and there has been a very high level of activity among people living there who have opposed NATO. You know that, literally, the days have ended with the same strong survey across Ukraine, conducted jointly by socialists and by communists, the Party of the Regions, and also in Kharkiv Province 97 per cent of the people against the Yushchenko initiative to join NATO. Don't you think Ukraine is being taken into military pliers at a time of acute political urgency, which is once again initiated by the President and his environment? Do you not think that in 2006, when these plans were developed, this was developed in the Government of Echanurov? The question is, "Why do we have a crisis today, exactly today?" What kind of brick fell on his head, sorry for the expression, the President, that for today he'd like to issue such a decree on the dissolution of parliament and so on? What has happened in the last two or three weeks that you and I have made decisions that have led the President to such feats of speech? Why today? Because April. Because, please, in July and August, the soldiers and provocations against these foreign citizens against those foreign citizens who may occur, and then these foreign Governments will have to protest against what is happening in Ukraine. Here's a scenario that comes from this draft order that we're considering with you today. In no case could the draft law be supported in the light of the political situation. That's why I'm asking you to hold off.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u138	Thank you. We still have the rights of a guaranteed socialist faction. Melniczuk? Matvienkov, but minus two. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u139	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The issue of the state of our army, the issue of the problems that we have today in the army, is a very serious problem that I think none of our citizens can be concerned about. Today, the army is indeed experiencing critical moments and critical breakthroughs in such situations. A thromb that was formed on average. You'll think about it. We've got a colonel in our office today and above, i.e. seven emergency personnel serving at the senior officer level. Young lieutenants who graduate from higher education have come to the army without any confidence at all in tomorrow's day, not that they can't offer a job to date, to create the basic conditions under which they can live a normal life. Today, there is a problem with those officers who quit their jobs, they have no housing, they have nowhere to go with their families today. We have no new technology, no modernization, no technology re-arms programme, no strategic framework for the development of the army in the complex. We have a huge military industrial complex, which, let's put it this way, has countries that can be counted by their fingers. But the efficiency of the work, the loading of this military-industrial complex, is null and void. It's practically broken today, it's almost ruined and it's standing there today. The entire doctrine of foreign policy, which is being carried out to date, is very simple: we do not have sufficient capacity in the army to ensure the defence capacity of our State, let us conclude, let us say, an agreement with NATO that will provide us with the protection of the external borders that will provide us with our State for free. Trust me, it's only free cheese in a mouse box. And I think history has already shown, and I am not going to talk about hiring NATO now, we have said this to the party on several occasions, and you know our position — we are categorically opposed to Ukraine's accession to this bloc. Nevertheless, the issue today is with regard to exercises. If we were to ask what should be taught to our army, our faction's position is clear — yes, we should do the exercises, but the question is: first, the election of strategic partners — to whom does this exercise take place, to what basis, to what time period, to what time period? Why this contingent? Why are these troops being introduced into this area during this period of time? If we were here, there was a Minister of Defence who said that we needed to resolve those questions and answer those questions, I think we would have no doubt, but since we have not received today reasonable answers to all questions about the development of our army with regard to the strategic doctrine, we will not vote in favour of that order or for that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u140	Yeah, well, one minute to Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u141	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio audiences, television audiences! I understand what we have to do. The state has to live, and that's not the only reason that this bill, too, is for us to work, and it's put here. Motivation that there is no minister of defense is of great interest to us why it does not appear on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And because there were suggestions to ask the Prime Minister why he didn't go to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that's one thing. Adam Ivanovich, to me. One minute so I can. I'd like to ask you to give me a little bit more time to express your motives.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u142	Another time. You already had motives from the faction. Baburin, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u143	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. One. When the President passed the law and the Minister asked or moved, he did not deny that we were legitimate with you today, although that is beyond doubt. That's the first question. Second question. If the Minister has a headache or a leg, he has a whole bunch of deputies there, and in practice we have agreed that the draft law here from the Ministry of Defence should be reported by the Deputys. So this is where our military comrades were speaking, who are probably a little thinner on the situation, I just want to say no. It is not necessary for the Minister of Defence or his deputies today to adopt this law. That is why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u144	So you're proposing to support the defense minister's position. Yes, the discussion of the matter, the honourable colleagues, is over. I'll bet you a vote. Well, in view of the fact that we can't. No, it's not. I'm betting on a vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the President's decision-making law. on the approval of the decision of the President of Ukraine to admit the armed forces of other States to Ukraine in 2007 for participation in multinational military training, Bill 3270. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:53:26]] For the five of us. The decision is not taken. I'll continue for 15 minutes. We need to get through the meetings. in the section “In summary procedure”. Please vote. [[13:53:59]] For 246 Decision taken. We have here, honourable colleagues, a number of bills related to the amendment of the Notaryate Act. Well, maybe if you don't mind, we'll listen to the reports and reports on each of them, and then we'll all talk together, maybe even a little bit more than two times two, see how much will be recorded. Is there no objection? Not to be repeated because they are connected. Then please draft the Act amending the Ukrainian Notaryate Act, government. He reports that Jefimenko is deputy minister because the minister of justice is at a meeting of the Cabinet. Please prepare the cook. Only Igor. You have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Government Bill on Amendments to Ukraine's Notaryate Act has been drafted with the aim of further reforming the Notaryate, as well as improving citizens' access to and quality of notarial services, removing restrictions on the marginal number of private notaries in notarial districts. The project provides for a more demanding approach to the organizational and legal principles of private notaries and an expanded range of legal grounds to hold them accountable in the absence or improper performance of their professional duties. The project implements the concept of the notary office of the private notary as its place of work and the legislative level of establishment of requirements for a room designed to provide quality services to citizens and to ensure their rights and legitimate interests. The bill also provides for increased monitoring of the activity of private notaries, for a more concise period for the start of notary activities. It is also proposed to increase the amount of insurance that will guarantee full compensation for damage caused by a notary. In addition, additional grounds have been laid down to encourage private notaries to increase their professional qualifications and prevent complaints about notaries from coming into force. On February 21, the bill was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Legal Policy and was recommended to adopt the draft as a basis. Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u146	Thank you, Leonid Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of Legal Policy Committee Zvaricz Igor Teodorovich Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy considered a draft bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine entitled “To Amend the Law of Ukraine on Notariat” at its meeting on February 21, this year, Protocol No. 21. During the consideration of Bill No. 3025 at the committee meeting, it was pointed out that, although it did not solve the main task of creating a single notary, as envisaged in legislative initiatives during the last two Supreme Council calls, it allowed the establishment of a fundamental first step in that direction to cancel the quota of notarial districts. Without repeating with the deputy minister, I would like to point out that the committee members also drew attention to some of the shortcomings of the bill that might be removed when preparing it for consideration in the second reading. First of all, this is the absence of provisions for the further share of notary archives in the case of the registration of private notary activities by state notaries. Furthermore, according to article 33, part two, of the bill, the procedure for monitoring compliance with the requirements of legislation by private notaries in carrying out their duties should be established by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, but such a provision is proposed to apply only to private notaries, at least not to state officials. Why? Article 24 also proposes that the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine be given the right to develop requirements for a notary office, but, again, only a private notary. For the sake of objectivity, I would like to point out that the committee has come to a conclusion, a request from the Association of Private Notaries in the Kharkiv Region, where it is said that Law 3025 does not take into account the consequences of legislative changes aimed at notarizing and protecting private notaries of hereditary property. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u148	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u149	support as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u150	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Next we have the Draft Act on Amendments to the Act on Notariat of Ukraine and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. [[on the payment of public duties by private notaries]] Bill number 2534. Bill author Alexeyev Igor Viktorovich. He wrote to us about the draft. But according to article 99, what is already included in the agenda has the right, the bill, to be removed only by the Supreme Council. So I ask you to support the proposal of Colleague Alexeyev and to vote on the draft of Bill No. 2534. Please vote. [[14:00:09]] For 231 Decision taken. Next. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Income Tax for Persons, registration number 1240. [[about notaryus functions]] The author of the Onischuk Mikola Vasilovich bill, the committee, and here is a committee of some kind appointed by the Committee on Finance and Banking, and there is a letter signed by Pdustenka to postpone the bill's consideration to the next plenary week. Please support this proposal by the committee. Vote. [[14:01:04]] For 238. A decision has been made. Draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons of Entrepreneurs on bringing Ukraine into conformity with the Act on Notariat. Feldman, 2608, author of the legislative initiative. He's gone. Please, Mr. Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, bill number 2608.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u151	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 6 February, considered the draft Act amending the Act on State Regulatory, State Regulation of Legal Persons and Business Individuals. The main task of the bill is to conduct a terminology of the Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons in accordance with the terminology of the Notaryate Act. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, in its opinion of 17.01.2007, notes that the first reading of the draft law may be based on subsequent comments. The members of the committee supported Feldman's bill. We decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council as a basis. But I'm going to add that there are, literally, two words there that match the terminology. We therefore consider the bill to be purely technical and ask that it be adopted on first reading, although there are some points that suggest refinement. And by the second reading, we'll finish it quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u152	Thank you. Yes, the honourable colleagues, of the four notary bills, of the amendment to the Notariat Act, we have considered two of you, because the other one, at the proposal of the author, has called back, the other one, to the proposal of the committee we have put forward. We will therefore discuss only two bills: Governmental 3025 on amending the Act on Notariat and Feldman on State registration of legal persons and natural persons of entrepreneurs. Please sign up. Yes, no one insists anymore, because two. And one more against it. Please, Matthew. No, well, from one faction, Tarasov, then come out of the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u153	My fellow Members, I think there is no doubt in any of us that in order to ensure that notaries perform more effectively the functions of protecting the rights of citizens and legal persons, we need to adopt such laws. And first of all, I think the faction is going to do the same, our faction, we're going to support the bill introduced by the government, which is number 3025. But I can't help but mention a number of comments that need to be made today with the need for a profile committee to be able to take them fully into account when this bill is being drafted before the second reading. A few of them. I think you'll agree that the proposed reduction in the length of a person's internship who wants to do notary activities from two years to six months can result in a drop in the level of qualification. That's what we need to look at. But another term may be set. I cannot help but point out, however, who is acknowledging the notary’s refusal to do a notary act to invalidate the right to engage in a notary activity. And in the end, look at article 28 of the Civil and Legal Liability Insurance of the Private Notary. Who's going to be able to make an insurance premium of at least 500 times the minimum wage. The extent of the damage is determined either by consent of the parties or by judicial procedure. Where the starting notary will take that amount of money. That's why I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u154	Thank you. Peter Melnik, please, the faction of “Regions”. Prepare Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, the draft law proposes to amend the Notariat Act and the Cabinet of Ministers Decree on State Customs. The project defines and strengthens the conditions for the administration of government duties by notaries as full-time persons regardless of whether they work in a public or private notarial office on the sole principle of notarial action for the benefit of natural and legal persons. The aim and purpose of the project is to eliminate the contradictions that exist in the Ukrainian Act on Notariat and the Ukrainian Cabinet Decree on State Customs and the conditions for the administration of State duties by private notaries. The procedure for the administration of government duties in Ukraine is regulated by the Decree in accordance with article 1 of which the payers of state-of-the-art duties in Ukraine are natural and legal persons for their actions and the issuance of documents of legal significance to the authorities. In private notaries of the same notarial actions that are performed by government notaries, private individuals do not pay public duties, but they pay for the agreement of the parties that are included in their income and do not refer to the budget. This violates the general principles governing the administration of government duties laid down by a decree for all persons who benefit from notarial action. In practice, the size of government duties and the remuneration of a private notary on the same basis of notarial actions is the same as that of the only difference that a government duty in full, as a purpose payment, is included in the budget, and a private notary's salary is included in its income. In view of this, private notaries, when paid for their actions, automatically exclude all persons who use their services from the public-customs payer circle, which are directly defined by the decree, which in fact violates the decree in part of the administration of State duties and deprives the state budget of the revenues guaranteed by the decree. As a result of the review of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Act on Notariat and the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u156	Thank you, Peter Volodymyrovich. You said it all right, except we're not considering this law, because you must have been gone. And at the author's suggestion, we moved him, but your thoughts are perfectly fair. Please, Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The reform of the notary in Ukraine as part of the legal reform in Ukraine began 14 years ago. The adopted Law was “The Notary ” of the second. In 1993, more. The essence of notary reform is to move towards dissuasion of legal institutions, which by nature are not state but social, and to create conditions for Ukraine to join the World System of Notariat. Regrettably, Bill 3025 is launching reverse recovery processes for legal institutions, and it is torn out of the general concept of notary reform in Ukraine. This bill, 3025, is anti-constitutional because it does not comply with constitutional principles regarding the definition solely of the laws of the organization of the activity of the notaryate. [[article 92, paragraph 14, of the Constitution of Ukraine]] For example, violations include the addition of article five or article 12, part seven of article 24, or paragraph three of the first part of article 30 of this bill, which is proposed by the Minust. The inadmissibility of observing the content and scope of existing rights in amending existing laws is also violated by article 22 of the Constitution. For example, a violation of the rights of notaries, these are paragraphs three to four of the final clauses of the bill. In addition, only a court can monitor the legality of notarial action today, which, as the only body that can make an illegal notarial action, refusal to take a notarial action, notarial certification, wills, and so forth. The Ministry of Justice and its territorial authorities can only be monitored for the organization of notary activities. And the position of the bill, articles 29, 30, 33, 34 testify to a turning point.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u158	Thank you, thank you. You said your main point, of course you're against it. The discussion is over, we'll make a decision. Although once again, my dear fellows, when I vote, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we only make decisions in the first reading, in the first reading, so those proposals that my colleague Tarasov in particular makes are absolutely correct, they may be for processing in the second reading, but that's your will. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on Notariat, registration number 3025. Please vote. [[14:12:17]] For 218. The factions, please. Region Party – 183, Block Timoshenko – 7, “Our Ukraine” – 3, Socialists – 1, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 4. Dear colleagues, once again, I emphasize that this is the first reading, we can, if it's not right at all, it's one thing, and if there's a remark, they're absolutely calm in deciding when they're being considered and when the committee is preparing for the second reading. I don't see it. And I'd ask. Now, now, okay. And I'd like to point out that this is a government bill, and we're working with the government. So on the second reading, express your position, make changes, and everything will be right. Please, Tarasov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, the point is that the committee has created a working group that is working on two drafts. This bill is Bill 2278. The working group has already completed its work. I've got a job to do. We're on the only document. But the thing is, if we support this first reading today, it's what we did. The working group has been working, it's being rejected, because conceptually these two laws are different. Different, I emphasize. This bill cannot be adopted in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-04-m0.u160	There's nothing to work on unless it's accepted as a basis. What should we do? Who's to go back to making a decision? Let's support it. [[14:14:21]] For 209 209. Yes, who's in charge of correcting the Cabinet of Ministers this law. The draft bill for further consideration of the positions expressed here by the Socialist factions, please vote. [[14:14:52]] For 251 Decision taken. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons Entrepreneurs. [[on the bringing into conformity with the Act of Ukraine of "The Notaryate"]] Registration number 2608. Please vote. [[14:15:29]] For 251 Copy that. Dear colleagues, we have two more bills here, but as long as there is no Zabzaluk. I don't see any changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. [[on administrative arrest]] Wait, don't rush. I offer to move, not to consider, because there is no one to deal with, because there is no one to deal with -- no storytelling. And I propose to support the Draft Law on Amendments to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Compulsory copy of Documents, Bill No. 2628, author of the legislative initiative Moroz Alexander Alexandrovich. The committee supports. Here, literally, one sentence to make to article 8 of the Ukrainian Act "On a mandatory copy of documents" is the first part to be completed by paragraph 9 of this content: “The mandatory free copy of legal acts – reference, encyclopedia, historical and scientific literature in the field of law is sent to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine”. I think let's support it. These are state funds, the Constitutional Court. budget, let's get them a copy. And I would ask, I don't think there's going to be any denial of taking as a basis, but as a matter of fact, as a law. Please vote, 2628 - Act on Amendments to Article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Compulsory copy of Documents. Vote as a matter of law. Vote. [[14:17:31]] For 251 The law is passed. And one more thing. Don't worry, dear fellows. You and I have accepted an application, we have begun our session with the application. And there were some legal moments. The legal office was working on this document. And for the sake of certain new formulations, I'm going to introduce you to the final text of the statement. If we agree to vote that this is the text of the statement that is officially published as a legal document. Is there no objection? Because once again, the Law Department is designed to see before we go out into the world our laws and other acts look at the subject of law and so forth. Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine issued by the President of Ukraine on 2 April 2007 by the Decree “On the Cessation of Timely Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” is, without a doubt, unconstitutional. The Head of State did not take his step with the Constitution of Ukraine, particularly its article 90, beyond its constitutional powers. Prior to the promulgation of the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on April 2, 2007, at its special session, it gave a clear assessment of this decision, based on the Constitution of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers did not recognize the decree as giving rise to constitutional and legal consequences, particularly with regard to Parliament's activities, and working in the ordinary regime. After all, article 60 of the Constitution does not require anyone to carry out manifestly criminal orders and orders. In such a situation, the reaction of the President of Ukraine, Yushchenka, to acts of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which were approved before the publication of the Decree on the Early Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is unfounded. Similarly, the Ukrainian President's decree to suspend the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers' decree of 3 April 2007 No. 595, approved with respect to the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2007 and the failure to comply with the relevant Supreme Council decision of 2 April 2007. Unacceptable and not based on the prescriptions of the Basic Law of Ukraine is the attempt by the President of Ukraine to involve the leaders of the law enforcement agencies, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations and heads of local government administrations in the political conflict. It is particularly dangerous to engage in the political struggle of the Ukrainian Security Service and its leadership, as evidenced by a public assessment of the responsibilities of the Head of the Security Service of the Ukrainian Parliament’s decisions. The Supreme Council of Ukraine draws the attention of the authorities and local authorities, their officials, officials and officials to the inadmissibility of making decisions or taking actions contrary to the Constitution, Ukrainian laws and the irreversibility of legal responsibility for such decisions or actions, since no presidential decrees or regulations can be repealed by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. In the legal state declared by Ukraine, any conflict must be resolved solely within the law by negotiation or by judicial order. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the President of Ukraine to return immediately to the constitutional field and, pending the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to repeal the Order “On a permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call”. And one more thing. I propose that we give another argument here, which we talked about this morning, that, regardless of how this decree will be valid or invalid, the Supreme Council will work until, to the extent of its powers, as defined by the Constitution, because our powers, the powers of the Supreme Council will cease only from the opening of the first session of the next summons. It will be May this year, or it will be May 2011, life will show, but we must follow the Constitution. In May 2011 I propose to vote on the final text of the application with the proposal I was talking about. Please vote. [[14:22:25]] For 249 Thank you. Dear colleagues, all the questions that we have asked to discuss today’s meeting have been resolved. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Today we work in committees and factions. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. Good luck.
