ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, members of the media! People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[10:02:01]] There are 419 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues! Today we have birthdays, the anniversary date is 65 by John Sidorovich Boko. Let's give him a warm welcome. [[Applause]] And one of the patriarchs of our mine business in Yuhim Leonidovich Zvigilski today is also a birthday. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues! I see there are some problems. Let's do it this way. Now we're going to take the oath of our new colleague. Then we have five minutes for factions according to the Rules. The factions in these five minute speeches will say their suggestions, what, why, why, and why, and then we will consult with you. Okay? Then let's do this, because we still have to hear each other who wants to, that is, use the five minutes we have at our disposal. Accordingly, on February 14, 2007, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26, 2006, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Bilas Boris Fedorovic, on the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilash Boris Fedorovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum. Please, Boris Fedorovich. Give him a chance to get to the rostrum. Dear colleagues, please let Belash go.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine! I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u3	Dear colleagues, let's welcome Boris Fedorovich to join our MP family and wish him success in the field of lawmaking. Dear national deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Tuesday for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, and messages. As we have done before, the fact that the factions are given five minutes by Tuesday has been decided. I ask the factions to register who wants to participate in the discussion. Now, now, we'll get to that. Let them sign up. All right, we're on. And here are statements from the factions of the Party of Regions and the factions of the Socialists about the announcement of the break. Do you have three minutes to call it a break? Three minutes. Who will act? Baranovsky, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! I'd like to speak on the subject. Today it's a pretty hot subject for tariffs. And it is necessary for Ukrainian citizens to know that the decision to increase tariffs was taken before the government of the anti-crisis coalition came. I would like to point out that in cities and areas where the councils have a vast majority, tariffs are much higher than in other areas of Ukraine. In the Winnitz region, for example, out of the 100 members of the Council of 73 of Butt and Our Ukraine. In Lutsk, Žitomir, Uzhgorod, Ivano-Frankivsk, Biliy Church, Kirovogradi, Lviv, Poltava, Reveny, Sumah, Ternopolis, Hmelnicke, Cerkas, Chernigov, Chernivts and the city of Kiev, deputies from the coalition party of the unit who could in no way influence the adoption of tariff decisions. I would stress that the coalition government of the anti-crisis coalition did not look for the culprits, but was determined to correct the situation, and the first results of the government's work showed that this was a success. At this time, the media spread cynical lies to the government as a whole, as well as to the anti - crisis tariff coalition. We are confident that the government will implement our decision to raise pensions and salaries as a result of the 1st quarter job and correct the tariff situation, and ask those who have unjustifiably raised them. At the same time, we cannot overlook the fact that local councils are responsible for the adoption of tariffs. Unreasonably, by raising tariffs, opposition leaders are pursuing the goal of discrediting the very idea of constitutional reform, which they so desire to abolish. To conclude, we will explain the motivation behind our request for a statement. Respectable compatriots! Yesterday's ultimatum, once again launched by the BUT leader, on the threat of blocking the work of the Supreme Council if there were no successive populist rulings voted after a project on the report of the Interim Commission of Inquiry on natural gas security and on gas market abuse was included in the agenda. As a result of this issue, the decision of 2640 was to be taken by the commission to verify the legal cancellation of EESU debts in the amount of 7.5 billion dollars. [[author – National Deputy Kravchenko]] That's the amount that would have been enough for three years to grant all of Ukraine's agriculture. These costs must be paid back to the state’s budget and will be sufficient for both retirement and salary. But the third month in a row, and primarily because of the threats of blocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the opposition is trying to prevent the review of the 2640 bill, while the President of Ukraine, in an interview with the English-language Associated Press, said on September 13, 2005, that Timoshenko had used the prime minister's office to write off the debts of the EUES. That's why we're asking you to bring into order the day-to-day review of the 2640 Project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u5	Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist faction. Five minutes. Behind him is Stoyan, the Party of Regions. Please, you can go to the rostrum. On the rostrum, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, our constituents! The parliamentary faction of Communists draws the attention of public opinion and society as a whole to the fact that the legal forces, the orange environment of Yushchenka and the guarantor of the Constitution are artificially arousing political passions, resorting to actions that do not contribute to the stability of the situation in the country, intensifying the opposition and confrontation between the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers on the one hand and the President of Ukraine on the other. Uncovered hysteria and irritability were triggered by the Bank's adoption of the urgently needed Act on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Without convincing arguments and legal grounds, wanting to hide in any way their disastrous fall in trust and popularity among the people, Yushchenko and his Secretariat have resorted to unrelenting pressure on the Constitutional Court. What is worth the brutal appeal of the President to this court for clarification as to whether he has the right to resign. The Head of State doesn't want to realize that society, and he's personally living and working in another state, which is called the parliamentary-presidential republic, for the second year now. And the question today is not about trying to undermine constitutional reform, or review constitutional changes, but to bring it to a logical conclusion, to fill the real meaning of empowering all the representative and executive bodies from the centre to the regions, to every district, city, territorial community, which will inevitably and positively affect the improvement of the state of affairs in the economy, the social sphere, the improvement of the welfare of our people. The Presidential side is doing its best to drag the canoe of lost authority over itself through some constitutional assembly, referendums, and so forth. The Communist MP’s faction is that it is necessary not to review the established constitutional reform, but to deepen its social aspects, since in the current Law the fundamental rights and freedoms of a person to work, to pay, to education, to live free of charge, to study, to protect health, and so forth. Unfortunately, the state still does not guarantee their compliance. For the purpose of eliminating this injustice, the inadequacy between the real reality and the legislative base, and the faction of the Communists, the draft of the National Constitution. It is worth reminding that respected colleagues, such as Yuschchenko and his orange associates 2.5 years ago, assured the people that they would immediately take on the solution of all painful problems. The Communists insist that it is time to ask: Why are the steps to meet people, the rich to share with the poor, the five million jobs to be created, and the authorities to be accountable to the people and others? Foreign policy is being bankrupted and declared by the President of the country. Lusnov is like a great soapy myth about European choice, about accelerated integration into European society, where no one was going to accept Ukraine. Now the orange team, contrary to the will of the people and public opinion, is pushing the country to NATO, pursuing the military's military alliance's military intentions. The Communist faction requires the Parliament and the Cabinet of Ministers to have objective and principled conclusions as to how far our further progress into European structures will provide security.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u7	Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, a faction of the Party of the Regions, has the word. Get ready for Stepan Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u8	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished representatives of the media! I want to begin by explaining why the party of the region is near the rostrum. We're not blocking the rostrum, we're here because of yesterday's statement by Yulia Timoshenko that they're going to block the rostrum and not allow it to work properly, and we've created conditions for normal work. In order for the coalition's decision to start working in Parliament and to review the laws. But the theme of my introduction is: “The Social Policy of Opposition: Myths and Realities”. And I would like to begin by saying to the first President of Ukraine, Leonid Makarovich Kravczuk: “Some politicians love their people so much that they are ready to strangle them in their arms.” That is the kind of love that opposition has for its people today. By proposing populist social laws, they aim to destroy the first positive achievements of the government of Yanukovic in economic and social protection fields, to break the work of the Anti-Crist Coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I want to remind all those who are watching and listening about how the opposition leader Julia Timoshenko was concerned about the social protection of ordinary citizens when she was prime minister of Ukraine and was in such a great position. In June 2005, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, signed by Timoshenko, set the President's salary at 32,000, its beloved, Timoshenko at 28,000, and its government officials at between 15 and 17,000. And somehow Julia Volodymyr is completely forgotten about the common people. True, she promised cheap meat, cheap sugar. And for such populism, Yushchenko was forced to remove Timoshenko in September 2005. And on the stage, he said it was the most unprofessional government in years of independence. And what does opposition do today? She wants to transfer these populist slogans to the government of Yanukovic. She wants to undermine the stability of this government. Moreover, she wants to say that she is concerned about the minimum wage, the minimum wage, but let's remember, literally yesterday Prime Minister Janukovic said that the results of the first quarter will be reviewed with the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum wage. What I would like to remind you more is, my fellow citizens, that you and I voted last December's decree that after the results of the first quarter we would approach, I would stress, the first time that the minimum wage is 100 percent to the minimum wage. It's about what you've been dreaming about for 15 years, that's what the unions were fighting for. What do these opposers say? They say, let's do it first, because they see that the Yanukovich government will do it. Political issues. Why is this being done? This is done for the first time that Julius Timoshenko has chosen a post on the Prime Minister's field and has not been able to do anything for the people. The second time she went to the 2006 elections, she told the people: “They are not choosing Parliament, but they are choosing the prime minister and the people are electing Prime Minister, Prime Minister Yanukovic, who voted for our political power for 32 percent. The people compared what the government of Yanukovic did in 2003-2004 and what the government of Timoshenko did in 2005 and gave priority to the government of Yanukovic. This is the goal of these actions. The opposition calls for early elections, people telling us that we don't need to, the opposition says we need to break the political reform agreements, people say that we don't need to. What's left is not to leave, to come to power for the third time. Let's speculate on the most sacred of social politics. But the Party of Regions and its leader are well aware of social policy, it is foreseen in our programme, and we are confident that, as a result of the successful development of the economy in recent months, we will be able to raise both the minimum wage and the level of pensions, and review all the social pay, and without opposition do what we promised people. But please don't disturb us, you've been working for a year in 2005, we haven't bothered you, and you're beating the drums, you're doing a polytreform, you're canceling something else, let's do some work. If you are a people, let us work together for the people of Ukraine! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u9	The bubble conveys the word to John Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, a faction of socialists. Please get ready. Kirilchuk is handing over Turkey.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u10	Dear National Deputies! Dear radios and television sets! Today's attempt to block the rostrum from the BUT faction first, it's the initiator, it's the open populism of the leaders of BUT in the rule of law and its constant play with the electorate. But it's already filling up the ostrich. You can, of course, at every public event and vote and vote for the most painful topic for the people of Ukraine today: “Raising tariffs for residential services”. These actions characterize people far more than words. In some cases it is only in opposition that the bottlings are fiercely demanding a reduction in tariffs, and in areas where most local councils are controlled by Timoshenko's subservient housing and utility tariffs are increasing several times, and this has already been mentioned. For example, when Julia Volodymyrna headed the government, I was the deputy head of the Winnick district government and was in charge of social affairs and housing. But I don’t remember any occasion when the government initiated tariff review, reduction, and so on. Indeed, the view depends on the cat’s seat. Julia Volodymyrna offers nothing new in this regard. The review by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 9th of the current year of the bill amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act was indicative of this. The main ideas of this bill on the reduction of the population border costs for housing and utility services by twenty per cent of income, as well as the ban on raising housing and utility tariffs at a higher rate compared to the average wage increase, were borrowed from the legislative initiatives of the national deputies of the factions of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. In particular, a socialist named Mikhailo Melniczuk proposed a legally binding grant mechanism for underprivileged citizens earlier than Julia Timoshenko. Its bill to amend the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act provides that for low-income citizens with incomes lower than subsistence minimum, the cost of housing services within the limits defined by the relevant body of rules may not exceed 12 per cent of the total income of the family. At the same time, it is proposed from the budget to compensate for the difference between prices, tariffs on residential services and 20 per cent of the total income of such a family in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I borrowed Julia Timoshenko's idea of introducing a moratorium on rising housing and utilities tariffs that exceed the rate of real income growth. People's MPs, socialists Mikola Rudzikowski and Vasil Polakov introduced to the Supreme Council in early August last year a ban on rising prices for residential services in excess of the rate of growth of real income for the population, because that has both economic logic and social justice. In view of the importance for the vast majority of Ukrainian citizens of tariffs, the Yulia bloc of Tymoshenko deliberately oppresses the situation for the sake of advertising its political power, and it engages in unconstructive, unwarranted, although perhaps from outside attractive steps. And to the end. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine supports the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of draft regulation 2640, the author of the bill by the national MP Kravchenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u11	Thank you. Please, Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, faction “Bloka timoshenko”. Get ready for Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u12	Dear people of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You've just heard our political opponents speak about how afraid they are of Julia Timoshenko, how afraid they are of our political power. But the only thing they can do is stand up to us, it's a lie. The lie about activity over the entire seven months of the government of Timoshenko is that it really didn't have to cut tariffs because during its government's time the tariffs were stable, there was a steady increase in wages, even the debts of miners that had accumulated during the administration of Yanukovich, the government of Timoshenko returned. Why are our political opponents so nervous? Because they understand winter is over, and spring is won. Our political power, all the democratic political powers in Ukraine will still win because the 2006 elections showed what the majority of the people of Ukraine want to see in parliament. And by the way, back to winter. Ukraine was really lucky with the winter. There has never been such a warm winter. But Ukraine was not happy with the government of Yanukovic, who refused to pursue tariff policy. The government has abandoned local councils, and the government has not taken steps to ensure stability, not abuse in the tariff area, but stable fuel supplies during the winter. At the same time, we hear blasphemous claims that the government cares about people, that the government thinks the tariffs are too high. Dear colleagues, I would suggest a very simple experiment to anyone who sees the Supreme Council, who hears the Supreme Council: an assessment should be made, dear friends, not by word of mouth, but by business. And today our political power is clearly proposing: first, to adopt the Ukrainian law, which will clearly ensure that tariffs on utility services, which account for a considerable amount of income for each family, cannot increase more than the income of the Ukrainian population. When the government and the anti-crisis coalition really care for the citizens, we don't see any reason why they don't support this normal balanced bill. And then you don't have to shed crocodile tears for our citizens, but you have to work clearly and openly within the law and within the Constitution. I will remind you that it is by law, particularly the Housing Code, that the central authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers in particular, are responsible for tariff policy in Ukraine. And you can't hide behind the backs of local councils. By the way, it's about local council. We saw on the TV yesterday that the Smoker told us that in areas where most people have opposition, there are bigger tariffs. It's a lie. The highest tariff increase took place in Eastern Ukraine, particularly in Donetsk, the Lugansk region, four times higher tariffs. And that's when they try to tell us something. Next, dear colleagues. You know, there's another problem, a serious problem that everyone who works honestly in our country feels. Today, inflation and tariffs are devastatingly destroying the income of our citizens. At the same time, our experts estimate that the 2007 budget, which extended the anti-crisis coalition along with the government, is about 15 billion, I emphasize, 15 billion. hidden incomes! We offered a clear calculation along with our colleagues in the law that was passed to the Supreme Council. It is this money that we propose to use to raise the minimum wage and the corresponding minimum pension. This is to be done immediately and not to promise or feed Ukraine with any tape tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, and so forth. There are resources today. Each digit is mathematically correct. 15 billion now at the expense of these resources. Sure. How to raise the minimum wage to 400. By the end of the year, we estimate that the minimum wage increase should be at a minimum wage of 480 dollars. I mean, respectable colleagues, even these things are unlikely to be able to balance the inflation today in Ukraine. But this minimum has to be done. We support the ruling made by "Our Ukraine" on the responsibility of the government for the failure of tariff policy. That's why, dear colleagues, we address both the presidency of the Supreme Council and all the deputies. The Supreme Council will not work properly, and we see that not only is our faction interested in this, but we also have the help of factions and deputies from the anti-crisis coalition, the Supreme Council will not work until it adopts these legislative acts. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u13	Please, Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u14	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Now the Supreme Council stands blocked by the parliamentary majority. The whole world understands when opposition is in the way of protest in Parliament. This, of course, is how rights are defended. When the parliamentary rostrum is blocked by the ruling majority, when the parliamentary rostrum is essentially blocked by the government, it means that all discussions about stability in the country, about the government of professionals, about peace and comfort are no more than a lie. Dear voters! We need to know that the rostrum is blocked for two simple reasons. The government and the governing coalition, under the direction of the government, are blocking the rostrum so that, first of all, the decision made by the faction "Our Ukraine" regarding the recognition of the government's work in the area of housing services is not satisfactory. The governing coalition blocks all the constructive proposals in our draft regulations that insist on defined cost standards, setting administrative costs for tariff formation and insisting on the introduction of a single methodology. Thus, the governing coalition and the government demonstrate their desire to transfer all responsibility for increased housing and utility tariffs to the local authorities. We feel that such an approach does not withstand any criticism. The ruling majority is now blocking the rostrum to prevent a government report on this issue, as we suggest, on April 1st this year. And it also blocks the rostrum to prevent the adoption of the standards that are provided for by our decision to increase the minimum wage to a minimum of living, because the tariffs have been adopted four times, and the real and real pension has been reduced. In addition, the ruling coalition and the government are now blocking the rostrum to prevent the adoption of a law that is being passed by another faction — the “Democratic Opposition”, BUT — in order to also limit the rise in housing tariffs. The governing coalition and the government are now blocking the rostrum and refusing to consider increasing minimum wages and pensions, which, as a matter of urgency yesterday, was introduced by President Yashchenk of Ukraine as a response to the Prime Minister's statement that the economy is supposedly growing, but the government does not have any resources to raise wages and pensions for the common people. It is now the ruling coalition that faces these issues. We believe that without considering these issues, any normal work of Parliament is now impossible. We insist that these questions be put into the agenda now. In addition, if this is not done, blocking the rostrum by a majority that refuses to allow the adoption of these bills will be replaced by blocking the rostrum by an opposition that will gain the approval of laws and regulations to reduce tariffs on residential services and the presidential bill to increase minimum wages and pensions. Dear voters, it is necessary for you to know that, instead, the ruling majority is introducing their bills, which essentially limit wages once again. This week, for example, two bills were introduced by the majority, 2655 and 2655-1, linking the minimum hourly wage to the minimum monthly wage. In doing so, the Ukrainian people are actually being asked to legitimize it. That the hourly salary of each fellow countryman would be not more than 2 bracelets of 27 copies. Such bills are now ready for adoption by the Government and the Crisis Coalition. Instead, bills that propose to raise minimum wages and pensions are rejected. The faction "Our Ukraine" states that without a day-to-day decision to overcome the negative effects of rising housing tariffs, further work of the Supreme Council in normal session mode will not be possible. The "Our Ukraine" faction also insists on the introduction of the Presidential bill today to increase minimum wages and pensions. The increase in tariffs resulting from the work of the Yanukovich Government should be abolished. And wages and pensions are increased for the common people. This is our principle position. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u15	Honorable colleagues, representatives of factions, representatives of factions expressed their thoughts, made arguments. Why are they standing, why are others sitting, who will do the third? In this regard, I recall our famous expression: Everything is flowing, everything is changing. Yesterday we sang one, today we say another. On the other hand, most people say that they are here to prevent the adoption of the Laws. Well, someone who thinks clearly understands that laws are accepted by the majority. If there is a majority, it does not vote and the Law is not accepted and should not stand near the rostrum. They stand here at the rostrum because on another occasion there is a intention to block, for either accept the laws we want or do not accept anything. And so, please, let's sort it out in an orderly fashion. We had a conversation at the Conciliation Council yesterday. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, when the BUT faction raised the question of Law 3069 the next time, we agreed that today we would put this Law into the order of the day and today it is on the list of issues. It's illegal, but it's happening. Because in this session we've already considered this law and he's got 214 votes. 214 votes. I've given the commission to the professional committees, and I'm asking the Serbian Committee as a committee that deals with prices and tariffs for residential services, and in particular, I'd like to ask the Alexander Ephraim Committee as a regulatory committee, because once again, there's a reference to the 50th article to make ad hoc to respond to what they're proposing. But let the profile committee consider it. As the committee decides, any committee decision - positive or negative - will be discussed with you at 16:00 and we will take a decision. Once again, at 16 o'clock this bill will be considered. As for the draft decree that "our Ukraine" is talking about, let's do it again. Well, I'd like you to give us the opportunity to work fundamentally under the terms of the Rules. Well, you can't do that: the project isn't even on the committee yet, and you're already asking, let's take a look. I'll look at the committee, again, and I asked the committee to consider the draft decision and today at 16 p.m., if the committee thinks about it, we'll make the decision together with the law and we'll consider it. But most importantly, the honourable colleagues who did yesterday. I think I'm not going to rule out, we're going to consult you right now, and we can make a decision that yesterday at the Conciliation Council, the Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, spoke very clearly about what the government's actions were aimed at making the tariffs normally, in a calm manner. And the tariffs will be reviewed. It's not just the government that's involved, you know, the Attorney General's Office. And at the last meeting of the Prime Minister's Cabinet, he gave a hard assessment of what's going on at the local level. So you don't have to take over and yell that only one part cares about the people, and the other part doesn't. We are concerned, and we will make balanced decisions with you. As for the second problem, who will change the State Budget Act faster and raise minimum wages. They couldn't dry up the ink on one faction's bill, like the President sent his bill. Well, we thank you for that concern, but once again, I remind you of the law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which is finally the law. In, I don't recall what article, but it says, the law on the Cabinet of Ministers, the only body, the only subject of the legislative initiative that has the right to make changes to the State Budget, is the Cabinet of Ministers. That's one thing. The other one. You know, you and I, when we vetoed the President's veto on the State Budget Act, we made a decision with you that the Cabinet of Ministers was obliged to make changes to the State Budget on the results of the first quarter. And I promise you, I am confident that these changes will be made to the State Budget. I don't rule out that the figures may be higher than the parameters proposed by the President. So let's get to that in a balanced way. And once again, nobody mind, I think we're going to get 450 votes for making these changes to the state budget. So I suggest, dear colleagues, let's work this way. We're working on our agenda right now. At 4:00, I'd like to take a break from 12 to 12.30, or I'll take a break from 14 to 16, the committees that I've been addressing, use them to consider these bills, and at 4:00, we'll start reviewing the bills that I've been talking about. Do you have a deal? We don't have a deal. Well, look. Don't you have a deal? It's your business. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. I don't see a break because those who advertised the break had already taken their break. From the procedure? Write down from each faction for one minute, five minutes. Please, Tkachenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u16	Please pass the word to Kravchenk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u17	Cowchenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u18	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. Adam Ivanovich, clearly discrediting the deputies against each other, because Kirilenko failed, in fact, as they said, to have blacked out on the draft decrees, the committee should have considered it at 4 p.m. In November, I submitted draft regulation 2640, which deals with the establishment of a commission on how 7.5 billion bracelets were stolen and dismantled by Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko. The rostrum is still being blocked and everything is still being done to prevent consideration. Therefore, I propose that at 16 hours my draft decree be put in order for me to consider it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u19	Klukkowski, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u20	Thank you. I want to make a note of a few questions. First. Unfortunately, most of us have put into practice, within 30 seconds of considering the President's remarks to the Kabmen Act. It's different. Adam Ivanovich, whatever you write in your "Pro Kabmin" Act is the Constitution of Ukraine and there is a decision of the 2001 Constitutional Court that prohibits restrictions on the right of legislative initiative to introduce bills for amending the budget. Open it and read it! Learn Ukrainian Constitutional Law at Last! And the last. We are grateful for the majority that helps us to block the work of the Supreme Council until our legislative initiatives are considered. But we assure you, we will do our best without your help, and we ourselves can do it as soon as you leave the rostrum. Therefore, we will not allow the work of the Supreme Council to begin until our legislative initiatives to protect Ukrainian citizens from the poverty that has been set up by the government of Yanukovic are considered and accepted!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Make yourself happy, Yuri Bogdanovich, to help you. Kirilchuk Eugene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u22	Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u23	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, I think that both the media and all the citizens watching the session see that Parliament's work cannot be called normal. Because not just the opposition, but really what's a nonsensus, and the majority are blocking the rostrum. And that's why we're demanding now to start negotiations, break up, and agree that the session won't work today. Why? Because we agree to invite government officials and others to work out laws today when most people are not ready to vote for them and say they haven't had time to get to know them. And when we're reviewing the laws, please let the government sign under increased pensions and wages, we won't deny the main result for us. But without the adoption of these laws, without the decision that our colleagues insist on, we cannot work properly today, and our citizens cannot live properly. And that's the main thing for us, dear colleagues. And that's why our factions, two — “Blank of Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine” — have called for a break and a meeting of the Conciliation Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u25	Please, Bondarchuk, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u26	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. We all know that laws are not baking mills. That is why we have the Rules and need to act strictly in line with the Rules. Because, indeed, they are now talking about clarifying the Constitutional Court. Are they talking about the President making proposals, but we haven't seen them yet? I'm chairing a committee that, according to the subject of knowledge, should also be involved in discussing this bill, but we haven't seen it yet. So all you can talk about is putting this in the agenda, not the discussions at 4:00, because we haven't seen it yet. I very much welcome the initiative of our Head of State, but I'm wondering why he didn't veto it before, when my bill on minimum wage was approved or voted, and he signed it on January 1, 200.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u27	Yes, please, who's from the Party of Regions? Sivkovic, please, Sivkovich's word. Microphone. I said from each faction one minute at a time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u28	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! I want to talk about the situation that today is in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Just three months ago, we took out the minister. The same articles on the same subject, including the same “2000”, did not cease to appear in the media. In the framework of parliamentary control, within the framework of public control, I ask you, Adam Ivanovich, and you, your fellow dignitaries, to include in the agenda of this week on Friday and to listen to the interior minister Tsushka's information on the state of affairs in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as what he wants to do in this ministry, and where he will be dragged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u29	That's an interesting offer. Dear colleagues! Calm down. Let's sum it up. First. What Mikola Kravchenka offered, and she, by the way, sounded in other colleagues' speeches, in connection with Decree 2640. We sat down yesterday about this. And 2640 and 2640-1, introduced by the faction “Our Ukraine”, we have included these decrees in the agenda, and on Thursday we will consider them. They're included in the order of the day for Thursday, and let's look at this 2640 and 2640-1 on Thursday. With regard to other suggestions. They've been resounding here for as long as they've been saying. With regard to Sovkovic’s offer as head of the Interim Investigative Commission dealing with these matters, he listened to the Internal Affairs Minister’s report. You said yourself the minister only works for three months. What, then, should we listen to him? Listen, is it time? It's time to listen. Okay, let's, when we're in normal mode with you, I'll put this proposal to a vote. If you support her, we will listen to the Minister of Internal Affairs, the information, and ask him a question, or how the committee of profile will proceed. There was a statement from two factions, "Our Ukraine" and BUT, about the 30-minute break announcement and the Conciliation Council. So I'd like to ask the factions to rise on the third floor right now. A break of up to 11 o’clock is announced for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. I'd like to ask you, the faction leaders will be right with you. And whoever's going to be speaking, well, let's give them a chance, maybe three minutes to take a break -- let them say. Then we'll sum it up, I'll tell you what we're going to do on the Conciliation Council, and we'll figure out what we're going to do next. Please, which one of those who took a break wants to say something if he wants to? Oh, no, you don't. Viacheslav Anatoliyovich. Yeah, well, they'll be right there. Yes, please, Kirilenko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u31	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues! There has just been a meeting, but which I don't think has solved any of the issues that arise in the order of the day by the factions "Our Ukraine" and the Block of Yulia Timoshenko. But the bill on tariff cuts, nor the regulation on tariff cuts and recognition of government work not satisfactory in the area of housing services, is taken up by the Supreme Council now in plenary session. The proposals that the majority make in putting this question on an indefinite term without any guarantee that they will be considered are not considered to address the issue of lowering housing and utility tariffs and increasing minimum wages and pensions. We are outraged that the ruling coalition, which means that the government is not going to consider the draft of President Yushchenka's urgent bill to increase the minimum wage and minimum pension, starting on April 1. Such an approach indicates that the words and affairs of the government differ again, for the declared intentions to increase the wages are based on the firm position of the ruling coalition, which means that the government of Yanukovic will not increase any wages or pensions for our fellow countrymen. In these circumstances, we think that consideration of any other issue of the order of the day is impossible. Any other issue other than the reduction in housing and utility tariffs and the increase in minimum wages and pensions for our fellow countrymen is secondary and therefore the blocking of the opposition to the rostrum, if it stops doing so by the ruling coalition, does not go away. Once again, we refer to the ruling coalition, the chairman of the session, to the government that now manages the governing coalition in manual mode, to now announce a break until 16 hours, to create two working groups, one of which will work on an agreed bill to increase minimum wages and pensions, and the other to work on the consideration of the bill introduced by BUT and the decision to reduce housing and utility tariffs introduced by “Our Ukraine”. After including all the factions, we suggest that the plenary be resumed and that we consider these three urgent issues: the BUT Bill, the ruling by “Our Ukraine” and the bill to increase minimum wages and pensions introduced by President Yushchenk. However, since we see a strong reluctance on the part of the majority and the government to deal with such issues, we feel that our position on blocking the rostrum and not addressing other issues of order is right, it serves the interests of the electorate and therefore remains unchanged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u32	Dear colleagues, I am very sorry that Viačeslav Anatolyevich said, to say the least, lies. The point of this lie is that. I'm making remarks to my colleague Lacia for breaking the Rules and the ethics of the meeting. It doesn't match the reality, because the Conciliation Council, the majority representatives and I as chairman didn't reject the opposition's proposals, and we didn't say we wouldn't consider them. I'll tell you more. In violation of the Rules, in violation of the Rules, because the Rules forbid it, I give my word and I give my word at 4:00 we will consider these issues. That's one thing. Some people want it now. It won't be now. It's going to be what we agreed on, not what some people want. That's one thing. The other one. I've asked the opposition, let's now invite Vice Prime Minister Rybak. We'll ask him questions, we'll listen to the information, we'll ask the government to join the committee to come to a negotiated decision. Opposition officials have refused to listen to the government, and they want to hear only themselves. Third. I would like to remind you that urgent consideration is not an immediate consideration and neither the President nor the King God has the right to violate the Supreme Council's regulations. Let the president bring in the bills, but they should go through the proper procedure, not because they want to go through with them. And one more thing. We agreed that now we're going to work in the same mode as we do, we're in opposition to the desire not to work, it's her right. At 3:30 a.m., there will be another meeting of the Conciliation Council, where I invite representatives of those profiling committees to consider these bills so far, I invite representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers to attend this meeting, and now we have an agreement with the government that he will work with the committees to find a way of doing that. I want us to make a decision at 4:00, considering these issues. This is the algorithm, and we're going to work. No breaks until 16 will be announced. Let's move on to today's meeting schedule. Dear colleagues, the first question we had was the draft Law on Agriculture Markets, registration number 2322. But a professional committee in view of the need for some work to be done is now requesting that the bill not be considered. So we're going to support the profile committee's position, and we're going to ask it to be properly prepared so that there's no more objections. Now we're going to go to the section with a reduced procedure. I'd like to ask the honourable colleagues to mobilize and support the proposal that we consider the following issues as a simplified procedure. Please prepare for the vote. I'm voting on a motion to consider the issue of a reduced procedure. Please vote. Personal voting is carried out by those present in the session room. [[11:32:04]] For 219 The factions, please. Region Party 162, Timoshenko Block 4, Our Ukraine 0, Socialists 29, Communists 20, non-fractional-4. Now, don't worry. Who's to go back to the vote? Please vote. [[11:32:47]] For 239. Copy that. Who is it that the proposed daily list of issues should be considered in a simplified manner? Please vote. [[11:33:09]] For 239. Thank you. In fact, what I'm told is that it's a procedural decision, there's 150 enough. Dear colleagues, once again please, I am addressing the heads of the professional committees, the representatives of the government, sit down now and work with us to look at the bills productively at 4:00. I'm begging you. A draft Act amending article 72 of the Law on Sudokus is under consideration. Registration number 2552. Report to the head of the State Judicial Administration, Balaklitski Ivan Ilich, please. Wheelchair's getting ready. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u33	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The main purpose of the bill is the legislative determination of the level of State social guarantees when calculating the remuneration of the national jury and the jury at the time they perform their duties before the court, based on the size of their average salary or pension, but not less than the subsistence minimum for the working person. It should be pointed out that the changes mentioned are in line with article 71, paragraph 50, of the Ukrainian Act on the State Law for 2007 on the introduction of certain other rules in accordance with this law and the closure for 2007 of part three of article 72 of the Act on the judiciary of Ukraine in part of the payment to the national jury and to the jury of the size of no less than the official salary of the judge of the relevant court, as previously established. Article 106 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2007 states that the national jury and the jury are paid a reward at the time they perform their duties in court, based on the size of their average salary or pension, but not less than the subsistence minimum for working persons. If this law is adopted, it will not be necessary to seek further about 99 million additional funds to pay to the national jury. Please note, too, that the changes are made to the Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine, the last word in the text proposed by the authors is omitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u34	Thank you, Ivan Illihu. Have a seat, please. Justice Committee member Vadim Vasilovich Kolesnichenko Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich Honorable Colleagues! The Justice Committee at its meeting on 20 December last year reviewed the draft Law amending article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice. The committee considers it appropriate to note the following. The bill is proposed in the first sentence of the third part of article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice: “the court’s salary” to replace the relevant court’s sentence with the words “the subsistence minimum for a working person”. The proposed changes relate to the payment of the work of the national jury and the jury at the time they perform their duties in court. In view of the fact that the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2007 provides that the remuneration of national jurors and jurors at the time of their duties in the court will be paid on the basis of their average earnings or pensions, but not less than the subsistence minimum for working persons, it can be concluded that such changes to the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine will contribute to a significant economy of funds from the State Budget. The position of the committee on the overall assessment of the draft law in question is not consistent with the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which is to be rejected by the bill. The Supreme Court of Ukraine does not, in its conclusion, deny the appropriateness of adopting a draft law. Supporting the idea of a bill aimed at preventing additional expenditure from the State budget, the Committee considers, on the basis of part two of article 109 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that it is possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary of Ukraine as a basis and as a whole as a law of Ukraine. [[Jehovah’s Witnesses, 11 / 15]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u36	Thank you, Vadim Vasilovich. Have a seat. Please, who wants to share in the discussion? Two "for", two "against". Green 'for', red 'again'. Please sign up. Yes, please, just against it, that's all I understand. Baby Oleg, please. And follow him, Klukkowski. Please pass the Light on the rostrum. Oh, from where? Here's the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u37	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The anti-crisis coalition, on the other hand, does not allow Parliament to consider the most necessary bills aimed at streamlining the housing and utility payment system. Now the bill, which is being considered, is also directed against people's interests: instead of raising the judges' salaries, which today amount to 300-400 dollars, instead of amending the law to give the national jury a minimum of living, i.e. 525 dollars. So where's the logic? What will a judge receive less than a national jury? It's the same thing as paying for residential services is five times what they cost. I therefore believe that we cannot now consider any draft legislation until we have resolved the issue of establishing objective and well-founded housing and utility tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u38	Yeah, something's wrong with you, Oleg. I've got a little bit of you. You may not have heard of the situation in the hall. Judges are not involved. This is a matter of nationals who are likened to a judge’s official salary. So it's not about judges. Please, Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this is really not about judges, but about national jurymen and possible jurors. But on equal terms with judges, they decide matters, including the fate of the people. The bill is based on the economics declared by the author, and it actually raises expenditure from the budget, because today we have an absurd situation in the judiciary where the judge's salary is 300-400 dollars. [[not pay, but work salary]] By the way, judge's assistant is 520 bucks. And so it's much lower than the minimum of living. However, once again, the government wants to save on justice, on the quality of justice. Declining the pay levels of the people's jury stimulates corruption in their ranks, and we're going to get to the point where we solve the questions of the people's jury for the benefit of the person who pays it more. Therefore, it seems to me that instead of saving money in such a way, it is necessary to raise the payment of the national jury to the level of payment to the judge for the same things, but not to the office salary, but to the salaries of the judge and then these persons will be on equal terms actually deciding the cases and fate of the people. [[in quotes]] So this bill is not just in the first. Not that in general, the first reading makes no sense. Instead, it should be entrusted to the government to make a contribution that will facilitate judicial action in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u40	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich. Dear colleagues, it's me. If I'm gonna lie, I'm gonna ask you to correct my head of the judiciary. But there are no such salaries as we speak of. The district judge's salary is three thousand dollars, salary, salary is three thousand dollars. So let's not. I didn't mention you. A salary of at least three thousand. Well, we're not going to talk about judges, because we can talk a lot. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on Sudokustvoj, 2552. Please vote. [[11:42:28]] For 233 Copy that. There was an offer -- in general, but there's a denial. Therefore, please, the law was adopted in the first reading, for there is a denial. The draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2447, is under consideration. [[on civil protection and technological security control]] The rapporteur is National Deputy Mikola Stepanovich Komar. Please prepare Kseniya Lupini.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u41	Honorary colleagues in Ukraine each year have more than 60,000 extraordinary technological situations that have killed and injured more than 6,000 people. The nations are inflicting material damage up to a billion dollars. Among the causes of extreme technological situations is the absence in the state of regulation of the conditions of economic activity from design, installation, maintenance of local emergency detection systems, and alerting people about emergency situations, identification, declaration of safety of high - risk objects, development of localization plans, and management of emergency situations and accidents. In Ukraine there are more than one and a half thousand industrial objects that store or use more than 300,000 tons of hazardous chemicals, including more than nine thousand tons of chlorine, over 200,000 tons of ammonia, and about 100,000 tons of other hazardous substances. In all, more than 17 million people live in areas of possible chemical infection, accounting for 35% of the population of Ukraine. The draft law provides for amendments to Ukraine’s legislative acts in order to comply with the provisions of the Civil Protection Law. The draft law does not need to be changed to laws and other legal acts. The implementation of the bill will allow Ukraine's legislative acts to be brought into line with the dune system of emergency response. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u42	Thank you. Sit down, please, Mikola Stepanovich. Please, Catherine Lapin, head of the Industrial Affairs Committee. I'm asking for a microphone. Xenia, Xenia, I'm sorry, Xenia. I'm looking at Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u43	. I'd remember. Thank you. Dear colleagues, I report that the position of the committee is as follows: to support this bill is supported, in particular, by amending the Investment Activities Act, which increases the responsibility of the security investor as a matter of fact. However, I have to bring to the attention the serious warnings of both our committee and the Committee on Environmental Policy that they have brought to the attention of our committee. These warnings apply precisely to the amendment of Article 9 of the License Act. Because what is now being proposed to be licensed is not by licensing activities. This is a list of certain jobs to be regulated either by certification or by obtaining appropriate certificates after a certain, professional, professional preparation. But it is by no means an activity. And the Committee on Environmental Policy is also focusing on this. That this license is thus proposed may lead to the monopolization of this activity of the Ministry of Emergency Situations. Therefore, in view of the need to adopt this bill as a basis, it is darker to point out that these serious remarks require the drafting of a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u44	Thank you, Kseniya Mikhailna. Are there speakers? Please sign in, two pros, two against. Yes, please, Alexandrovska. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u45	The Communist faction, Alexandrovsky, the city of Harkov. Our faction will support this bill in its first reading, and I think it's the right position, and that's why. Today, in cities, large cities, there are many examples of building residential buildings in the courtyards. The building is tight. You know, there is a very serious concern about the quality of this construction, because, God forbid, the quality that is inappropriate if the standards are not met and there is a technological disaster, not only will the tenants of this house be affected, but the entire microregions. I therefore believe that this law, which introduces certain control functions and in some ways strengthens control, needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u46	Yes, the discussion is over. Please allow me to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on civil protection and technological security control, registration number 2447. Please vote. [[11:48:15.]] For 236 Decision taken. In general, we can't, and the committee says we need to work out, and we need scientific expertise. Let's make the amendments recommended by the committee and our experts, and then we'll take it as a law. The draft Law on Amendments to the Forest Code of Ukraine, registration number 2661, is under consideration. [[on increasing water protection and soil-based functions]] Kovtunenko, author of the bill, reports Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please prepare Artemis Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u47	Dear President, honourable Members, in view of the fact that our bloc, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, is blocking the rostrum today in connection with the lack of consideration of the tariff bill, I ask that my bill be transposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u48	Alexander Volodymyrovich, we can move, but we have to vote for it. So I'm voting on the bill's proposal to postpone its consideration. I'd like to make up my mind. [[11:49:37]] For-82 Please report. Your offer is not supported. Please have two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u49	Please put this bill to the vote again and please transfer it to the next one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u50	Who's to go back to the vote, please make up your mind. [[11:50:19.]] For-127 Not supported. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u51	Yes, Your Honor, until the tariffs are discussed in Ukraine, until we protect Ukrainian citizens, please move my bill. Once again, I ask the honourable deputies of our opposition factions, our Ukraine and the Timoshenko Block, as well as the Party of the Regions to transpose this bill and to proceed to the vote on the tariff law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u52	Alexander Volodymyrovich, you can agree that I will now propose to withdraw the bill completely. Let's not joke. You don't have to. Please report, because we're going to shoot it completely and you're not going to be looking at it in this session. If you don't want to look at it, I can put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u53	I really want to, because this is a very necessary bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u54	Oh, come on, report. You don't want me to give the floor to a committee representative, we'll consider it without your report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u55	But the trees in Ukraine, the forests will survive, and the tariffs may prevent Ukrainian citizens from surviving. So we want to set up a tariff law first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u56	Alexander Volodymyrovich, I remind you and our listeners again. We agreed that the Act on Tariffs would be discussed first at 16 hours, at 16 hours we would consider the Law on Tariffs. Once again, I inform you and the audience, there's an agreement, and now the Cabinet of Ministers is in contact with the profile committee, and they're going to be discussing this issue together, and they're going to make a decision for us by 16 hours. I'd like it to be agreed. So please either report or I'll give the floor to a representative of the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u57	Great, please give your head. But I want to say it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u58	Yes, please. Please, Yuri Anatolyovich Artemenko from the committee. Please. Microphone from the spot. Please. Nothing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please tell me, if the author has not said what, what can I comment on? So I'll wait for Mr. Kovtunenko to report his report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u60	Okay. I say again, Kovtunko, will he report the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u61	Kovtunenko will report the bill after the tariffs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u62	I'm proposing a withdrawal, a removal from consideration of the draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Forest Code on Strengthening Water Protection and Ground Safety Functions, registration number 2661. Please vote. As such, the reporter refuses to present it. [[11:53:06]] For 233 Decision taken. Thank you. You've got what you want. A draft Ordinance on the Development of a State-wide Program for the Strengthening of the Coasts of Surface Water Objects and the Coastal Seas and Their Engineering Protection, registration number 2657, is under consideration. A member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl disaster, Kravtsov Alexander Olegovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u63	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The problem of strengthening the shores of both inland waterways and the seashore has been the result of the destruction and dispersion of the shores on the waterfronts of the bottomwater cascade and the coastline of the Azov and Black Seas. The length of shores affected by destructive processes has increased more than 5 times over the past decade. The largest activity of the destruction is seen in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Odessa, Herson, Mikolai district, and in the areas of the Daneprov watersheds. The coastline of the Azov and Black Seas within Ukraine stretches 2,900 miles [2,900 km]. It has a unique recreational value, it differs from increased population density and dynamic economic development. The coastal coastline of the inland reservoirs is 15,000 miles [15,000 km]. More than 3,000 of them are being destroyed. Half a mile [900 km] of coastal structures within populated areas require reconstruction. Procrastination with protective measures to strengthen the shores of surface water objects and the coastline of the seas and their engineering protection has led to the accidental destruction of residential industrial buildings and historical and architectural sites. This leads to a decline and a loss of the country’s recreational potential. Developing and implementing a statewide program will significantly reduce the risk of emergencies. Honorary colleagues, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, reviewed the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of a Statewide Program for the Strengthening of the Coasts of Surface Water Objects and the Coast of the Seas and their Engineering Protection, and unanimously supports the adoption of such a decision. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u64	Thank you. Is there a desire to speak? Please sign up. Have a seat, please. Yes, please, Stepan Bulba, prepare Michael Chechetchev. Microphone from the scene, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stepan's a faction of socialists. The socialists will support the consideration of this issue because it is absolutely urgent, relevant. I can tell from the experience of working in the Poltava region. With two large Kremenchuckke, Dniprojnijnski Falls, the Dnipro River is affected by the water erosion of these shores. And this problem has already become a truly ecological disaster especially in the Kremenchuck region, especially in the region of Globinsk, where, in fact, the coastline is being destroyed, but there is already a danger, because the former settlements, former cemeteries, and so on are being washed away. And so I repeat that we will support this decision, we will support the consideration of this issue. I'm going to all the people's deputies, even though there are other problems, let's say the same municipal tariffs, but I'm calling for opposition, let's finally understand that all the issues are important, and we have to move one step at a time to solve these problems. I call for this and, I repeat, socialists for this determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u66	Thank you. Please, Mikhailo Chechetov. I'll have the microphone out of the room, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u67	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The decree provides for the Cabinet of Ministers to initiate, develop and submit to the Supreme Council a project of a statewide programme to strengthen the shores of surface water objects and the coastline of the seas and their engineering protection. The program should reflect the real situation on the ground, have a higher legal status for reliable financial security. The regulations are to create ecological and engineering geological conditions and to reduce the risk of emergencies within coastal areas, to stabilize them by introducing a set of coherent and interconnected conservation, legal, economic, organisational and other measures. Dear National Deputies! I propose to support this motion for a ruling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u68	Thank you. Question completed. Indeed, we are determined, once again, to oblige the Cabinet of Ministers to develop a special program of state, and already in the speeches of both the author and those who have participated in the discussion, we say, and each one of you on the spot knows how much trouble we are suffering from this disaster. Therefore, I would like to support the Decree on the development of a state-wide programme to strengthen the shores of surface water objects, the coastline of the seas and their engineering protection. [[Registration number 2657]] Please vote. [[11:59:27]] For 237 Copy that. A break of up to 13 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u69	A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on irrigated land]] Registration number 2508. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Sergey Ivanovich Melnik. Please, two minutes. Bevanka Valeria to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u70	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The current adoption of the draft law is due to the fact that, in previous years, Ukraine has created a powerful water-economy meliorative complex, consisting of 2.2 million hectares of farmed land, which is an important component of the nation's industrial and economic potential and national wealth. However, the potential for irrigated land in recent years has not been fully exploited. Today, nearly one and a half million hectares of irrigation are not functioning, of which 800,000 hectares are due to the absence of rain machines. At the same time, state meliorate systems are capable of providing water for irrigation at an area of 1.8 million hectares [1.8 million ha]. Yet, only 943 thousand hectares or 43 percent of the available irrigation land can actually be watered without substantial capital investments. The law aims to improve financial security for irrigation, construction design, capital repairs, meliorate systems, and irrigation. The proposed amendments to Ukraine’s concession laws, to promote the development of domestic machinery for agribusiness and land melioration envision the possibility of land-mining. concessions that will allow additional sources of funding to be included in this area, as well as State support for the development of production and the upgrading of the rainforest. In doing so, the performance of the Ukrainian Law will enable the operation of the entire engineering infrastructure of the meliority complex to be effective, guaranteed to increase agricultural production, improve economic and financial performance. Power companies, create additional jobs, and increase ownership of money for meliorate funds. I ask the Ukrainian national deputies to support the draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u71	Thank you, Sergey Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Agrarian Politics, Land Relations Valérie Fedorovich Bevanko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Agrarian Policy and Land Relations Committee, at its meeting on 12 December 2006, reviewed the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on irrigated land, which is proposed to amend Ukraine's laws: “Concessions”, “On land melioration”, “To stimulate the development of domestic machinery for agri-industry complex”. The proposed changes will expand the scope of legislation, improve relations in irrigation, and ensure that additional sources of financing are involved for the construction, reconstruction, and operation of irrigation systems. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the bill can be based on a basis. In view of the above, we propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a bill to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Yes, please, Mikhaylo Chechetov. Barranian to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u74	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, a bill aimed at establishing mechanisms for the involvement of additional sources of funding to ensure the construction, reconstruction and operation of irrigation systems, and access to active economic activity by investors in the field of water-melioration concessions. It is proposed that irrigation and irrigation techniques be included in the list of techniques, equipment for an agro-industry complex with the aim of creating conditions for state support to address the cost-reimbursement problems of this group of techniques for farmers. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations recommends that the draft bill be based on the first reading. The faction of the Party of the Regions supports this bill and suggests that it be supported by all the deputies in the Hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u75	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Please, Alexander Baranowski, the Socialist faction. Microphone, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u76	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. In my opinion, my fellow believers, if we adopt the law in the way it is, it can make the situation worse by using meliorated land than it is today. The correct figures in the case are the number of land that we have lost. And we need to look at the root of why we lost them. Inside the farm nets were destroyed, much of the pipes were dug, sold out, and some remained. What does the bill offer us? Put the whole system into a concession, or let's say a lease. This means that the main pipelines, channels will be passed on, and then one person's business structure, which will take the object into the concession, will depend on whether the entire region will be able to get water or not. And this water, for example, in Crimea is not used solely for water, but it is also used as drinking water. So in my opinion, this law can be adopted in the first reading, provided that the second reading is subject to substantial amendments. That is, the main pipelines, the canals, the constructions, all of this other ban will be on its lease, or concession, and it will only be possible to give in to household systems or other systems. So they're on a balance sheet today in the village council, and the village council is going to decide what to do with them, just like that. And one more thing, they've been accusing the coalition of blocking the rostrum, and I'd like to explain to our television audiences that it's not blocking the rostrum. Blocking then goes to the rostrum when it is not possible to consider laws or other laws. Today, there is the protection of the rostrum, the protection of the rostrum from those who want to block the work of the Supreme Council, and the laws that people really need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u77	It's not protection, it's not blocking, it's sports. Question completed. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act on Amendments to Certain Irrigation Lands Act in Ukraine, registration number 2508. Please vote. [[12:37:15]] For 221 The factions, please. Party of regions. Well, of course. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. Vote. [[12:37:46]] For 225 A draft Act amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act, registration number 2509, is under consideration. Head of the State Committee on Land Resources, Mikola Jakovitch Sidorenko, please. I've been ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! Ukraine's draft Act amending article 16 of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act was developed by the State Committee on Land Resources to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill is designed to improve the efficiency of government regulation in relation to the land assessment process. The main provisions of the draft act relate to the amendment to Article 18 concerning the time limit for the carrying out of a normative monetary valuation of the land of the population. The operational part is that the legal and monetary valuation of agricultural destination lands is not less frequent than once every 5-7 years, and the non-agricultural assignment is no less rare than once every 7-10 years. In recent years, investment in urban development has increased the cost of developing and equipping the engineering infrastructure of such cities. Thus, the current standard monetary valuation of the population stops meeting the standards and requirements of economic land management. The adoption of this law is linked to the land assessment process, and it deals with the issue of periodicity. This law establishes a lower limit, it writes, and more often gives the right, if necessary, to conduct more often. The bill came through the entire conciliation procedure and may, in our view, be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Valerius Fedorovich Bevanko, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy, Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u80	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations on December 12, 2006, reviewed the draft bill, which provides for a time limit for the conduct of a regulatory monetary assessment of the land of the population sites, not less than 1 time every 5-7 years. In the old edition, this term was 7-10 years old. The Committee generally supports the proposal of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as the change in the targeted and functional use of land within the population centres is taking place more intensively than outside the population. And carrying out a normative monetary valuation in tighter terms will affect legal and physical persons to pay the real amount of land tax. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. The Committee on Construction, Construction and Housing proposes that it be accepted as a basis and generally as a law. In view of what has been said, we propose to adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u81	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. Alexander Baranowski. Microphone from the spot. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear colleagues, you and I are witnessing how in the last five years, I would say even five years of sharp change in prices for land, first of all in lands that were in the area of populated areas, such as district centers, the city of Kiev, the city of Crimea. Today, the trend is similar to that of other major cities and already to reicenters. And that price that is today does not correspond to how much this land should be bought for. And of course, the absence of this law, and in my opinion, this law makes it more difficult to measure the land, allowing some dumpsters to capture vast areas of land in perspective. So he's not buying the land to use it today for one or the other, and he's buying up large arrays of land, taking into account what's an extremely low price on the basis that it's traveling, it's definitely going to be expensive, and he's going to be able to resell it and run his business like that. So this law is extremely timely, I think it should be voted on in the first reading today and as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law amending article 18 of the Ukrainian Land Assessment Act, registration number 2509. Please vote. [[12:43:43]] For 258. Copy that. Dear colleagues, there was an offer. Now, wait, please. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration read: “The project provides for clarification, the implementation of this proposal will allow for a clearer settlement of the issue”. There are no suggestions, but it is written: “The results can be taken as a basis”. Yes. My friend, I remind you, the flu is progressing a lot right now. Do not open your mouth wide because germs can fly. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals is under consideration. Registration number 2578. First Deputy Minister for Environmental Protection Kurulenko Svetoslav Sergiyovich, please. Rijak is getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill proposes to amend articles 1st and 7th of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals on the disclosure of the term “file material” and on a ten-year deadline for the protection of information that is not subject to disclosure in the event of registration of pesticides and agrochemicals. During the period specified, no other applicant shall have the right to refer to the documents submitted by the first applicant in the event of registration of pesticides and agrochemicals, except in cases where such a right has been legally granted to another applicant. The bill proposes part four of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, which reads: “In the case of a state registration of pesticides or agrochemicals in Ukraine, 10 years from the date of registration are prohibited from use without the permission of the owners of the dossiers on the safe use of pesticides or agrochemicals for the registration of other drugs”. The proposed editorial on the permit of the file uses a more accurate term “owner” than previously adopted by law “hostage subject”. In addition, article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, which defines the term “materials of the dossier”, refers to physical, toxicological, biological and other scientific and technical data relating to the safety of pesticides or agrochemicals for humans and the environment. The adoption of the Act does not require additional costs from the State Budget of Ukraine. The law should ensure the implementation of international agreements on non-disclosure of information as an integral protection of intellectual property rights during the registration of pesticides and agrochemicals. Please support the draft Ukrainian Law and amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals and accept it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Please, from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u86	Basil Yaduha, faction of the Party of the Regions. The amendments proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to articles 1 and 7 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals have a qualitative distinction between the draft 2393 adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The following three points need to be considered. The amendments are envisaged in article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals, which is called upon to add to the legislative term materials on the safe use of pesticides or agrochemicals. [[file]] The inclusion of a term is essential for the proper application of the law in general. The other one. It is envisaged that safe-application materials may be used in the case of permission given by the owner rather than by the owner, as foreseen in Project No. 2393 earlier. Only if the term “owner” is applied can the primary objective of protecting intellectual property rights, which is at the same time the priority requirement of the WTO in the field of law relations. Moreover, the editorial board proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers uses a broader term “licensor” rather than the one voted in the previous project “advise subject”. Third. The addition of article 7 to the phrase “for the registration of other drug formulations” specifies the nature of the prohibition: “for 10 years, use without the permission of the owner of the file”. The draft proposed the following text: “For the registration of other formulations of drugs”. Without this addition, article 7 grossly violates the constitutional right of citizens to free access to information on the state of the environment, the quality of food and objects of life. [[Part Two, article 50 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are positive. The Agrarian Policy Committee, land relations, has considered these issues and proposes to adopt the project as a basis and generally as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u87	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? If you have one, write it down. I realized there wasn't. Then I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Pesticides and Agrochemicals. [[Registration number 2578]] [[12:50:05]] For 208 Maybe we should get some work done. I'm bringing it in. We can go back, but we won't come back. Okay. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. Return to voting. [[12:50:36]] For-93 Trust the Chief, he sometimes sees the situation. We're not back. I'm proposing to send a bill for further work. Please be supportive. [[12:51:00]] For 232 Decision taken. The law is aimed at further development. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct is under consideration, registration number 2463. [[on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights]] Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. Get ready for Bespalloma, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The draft law is made in connection with the adoption by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a law on the enforcement of decisions and the application of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The decision of the European Court of Human Rights is required to exercise Ukraine. Addressing this issue, the law determined how Ukraine should implement the European Court of Human Rights ruling. But we have a coalition where the execution of a human rights decision that may be passed on to the failure to comply with decisions of the national courts of Ukraine cannot be a reason to close the execution of the ruling of the national courts. To bring into line with the 2 laws that are now in force in Ukraine, on enforcement and enforcement of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights, it is proposed that clarification be made, according to which the execution of the European Court of Human Rights will be the basis for closing the decision of the national courts if the decision arose from those problems that arose in the national courts of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u89	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Have a seat, please. Unscrupulous Boris, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u90	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy discussed at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Implementation of Registration Number 2463, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The project foresees the closure of the execution of the execution decision by the Ukrainian Court of Justice if this decision is actually made in the course of the execution of the European Court of Human Rights decision. In fact, the bill refers to the wording of the name of the Ukrainian Law on the enforcement of decisions and the application of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The committee, apart from the conclusions of our Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, has also come to the conclusion of the Institute of State and Law, also positive, for which we are grateful to the experts. The observation of scientific expertise is like this. I quote for the protocol: the new paragraph 12 of part 1 of article 37 of the Ukrainian Law on Executive Conduct after the villages “actually execute” should be supplemented by the words “in accordance with paragraph 8 of part 1 of this article. Given these circumstances and taking into account the scope of the bill and the fact that the committee recommends that this proposal be taken into account by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the decision of the committee is that the project can be adopted in the first reading and in general. That's the committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u91	Thank you, Boris Yakovich. Have a seat. Are they willing to share in the discussion? You don't? None. Okay. Dear colleagues, if you don't mind, I'm going to put forward a proposal for a professional committee to take into account what is said in the proposal of the Scientific and Experimental Administration, to adopt this law as a whole, taking into account the proposals, with the addition: a reference to article eight or whatever. The Ministry won't deny it? Okay. I bet on the vote: adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct. [[on the implementation of the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights]] Registration number 2463. We vote in general as a law. [[12:55:30]] For 251 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is under consideration, registration number 2556. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Transport and Communications, Sergienko Leonid Grigorovich. Prepare Kseniya Lupini. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u92	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity is designed to implement section four, paragraph 3, of the Ukrainian Automotive Transport Act. The law provides that the licensing of commercial activities for the provision of passenger and freight services by road is carried out in accordance with the requirements of this law and taking into account the features set out in the Automobile Transport Act. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of commercial activities provide for the establishment of a single type of licence in the field of road transport, the provision of services for the transport of passengers and goods by road, which includes the licensing of such types of work as domestic and international transport by buses, taxis, freight and light vehicles. At the same time, the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of business excludes active earlier activities in the field of road transport, the provision of passenger and car services, and the provision of goods by car for general use, in addition to the provision of services for the transport of passengers and their luggage for taxis and the provision of services for the carriage of passengers and their luggage for taxis. So today, under the Automobile Transport Act, there's only one norm and the only concept is car transport, and before that, it was a general use transport that crashed into two operations. So we bring legislation into line with two laws. Article 9 of the Automobile Transport Act also introduces a new rule that provides for the admission of road transporters to transport passengers by means of commercial means by prior examination of the requirements of the licence. The licence authority shall confirm the carrier’s compliance with the licensing requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u93	Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u94	His location.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u95	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u96	In view of the above, we ask for a draft Act on the amendment of the Law on the licensing of certain economic activities to be adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers. The law was accepted by the Antimonopoly Committee, the Ministry of Finance of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The implementation of the draft law does not provide for additional material and other expenses. Also the main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council in the last edition of the 16th edition. 03. agreed that the licensing authority could verify the applicant’s compliance with the licensing requirements, if provided for by a special law governing relations in a particular area of economic activity. That's what we're asking in this law. So please accept in the first reading and in general, as agreed with all the interested authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u97	Thank you. Please, Xena Lapina, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, from the site microphone. Please. Leonid Grigorovitch, please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, the committee's opinion is this: we support the adoption of this law on the basis. Indeed, a combination of two licensed activities today, namely the transport of cars, the transport of goods, passengers by car, and a separate taxi ride, is worth unifying. This is really going to be in line with the car transport law. And yet we're giving warnings, which were also expressed by the Science and Technology Administration. According to the scientific and expert office to which we join, there is no need to introduce to the second article of the law on licensing clarification, which has just been quoted by a representative of the Ministry, because the scientific and expert office stresses that the licensing law allows for today, in particular, article 11 provides that special laws may define the specific features of licensing a certain type of activity that is currently in force in the car transport law. Thus, the scientific and expert office makes a logical conclusion that today there is no contradiction between the Licensing Act and the Automobile Transport Act regarding the second article. Therefore, there is no need for article 2. And another very important observation of the scientific and expert management on which the committee emphasizes: you have to add an article that will predict how the licences already issued will be used. The entrepreneurs were licensed for two different types. The species are now united. We have to make it clear that the licenses operate before the end of their period of action for this new type of activity. So we're proposing purely on a base, and we're going to be able to take these notes into account for the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u99	Thank you. Are they willing to share in the discussion? If you have one, write it down. Please, Alexander Baranowski, microphone from the scene.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u100	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'd like to make this bill, well, the following point. There was already a colleague of Leipzig who spoke, and she actually said what I was going to say. The fact is that it can really be accepted in the first reading, taking into account the adjustments that are being made today. But there's another side. The point is, they get the license and then they check the license conditions. I think it's very proper in the law that first, before you get a license, you have to get a license or the licensee has to get a clear check, and then you have to get a license, instead of the license, and then you have to try it. You know how it's done, how it's complicated. And one more thing. I would like to wish the Ministry of Transport and Communications, when they produce licensing conditions, and this is particularly true in rural areas for passengers to be sure on routes that are fairly high-income, such as those with high competition, so that our people will be able to access the villages that are not highly profitable, where no one wants to go, and that is where our people live. So when you write off flights, the corresponding routes are cost-effective, highly economically viable, and those villages that are not economically viable today, we could provide our population more fully in the quality of transporting them to one region or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u101	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, registration number 2556. Please vote. [[13:03:53]] For 244 Decision taken. I'd like the committee of profile to take note of the suggestions they've made to prepare for the second reading. The Draft Law on Amendments to Article 198 of the Civil Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[about execution by security]] Registration number 2221. Reports Seminoga Anatoly Ivanovich. Please be prepared by the Boiler Committee. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u102	Anatoly Seminoga, Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I am convinced that there is no more pressing problem today than the adoption of the social bills proposed by the opposition today, the rest of the bills can wait. So I propose that, in view of the fact that the Supreme Council is unable to adopt social laws, my law be postponed to a later date.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u103	Anatoly Ivanovich, we don't interfere with each other, but we're passing the laws by 16, at 16 o'clock we agreed that we'd be considering the laws we talked about. I can put your proposal to the vote, but I'm afraid it's not the same as the previous law. You insist, all right. Who is responsible for moving the matter forward, please make up your mind. [[13:05:34]] For-39 Unmoved. Will you report, Anatoly Ivanovich? In order to withdraw from this session the draft Law amending article 198 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, registration number 2221, please vote. 39 voted in favour. [[13:06:06]] For 238. The law is being taken out of consideration at this session. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, registration number 2566, is under consideration. Reported by the national deputy of Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich, co-reported by Dmitri Pritika. Please, Portnom. There's no Portnova. Please, Dmitri Mikitovich Pritica is the deputy head of the Justice Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u104	In drafting Bill No. 2566 on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure, the authors took into account the characteristics of agriculture, which are essential for the rapid and effective protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the owners and the state. Since the decisions of the courts directly affect the state budget, the financial situation of economic operators and the economic growth of the state is directly affected. The bill aims to improve the existing procedure for the prosecution of court decisions, to harmonize these issues with the relevant rules of civil and administrative jurisdiction. In particular, a mandatory procedure for appeals against a court decision is laid down, as well as for the Supreme Court of Ukraine to review decisions in connection with exceptional circumstances. Today, virtually all decisions of the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, including those of the administrative and civil courts, are being reviewed by the Supreme Court of Ukraine in a reoccupation order that has a very negative impact on the activities of the operators. This abnormal order of review of the decisions of the Supreme Court of Agriculture was repeatedly pointed out by experts from the Council of Europe, leading scientists and legal scientists in Ukraine. There are also specific decisions of the European Court of Human Rights that express the negative attitude of the European Court of Justice towards such an order. In this regard, it is proposed to amend and supplement articles 91, 107, 111 of the master’s procedural code of Ukraine. The bill is supported by the Scientific and Export Administration, the Institute of Legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, and the Committee on Justice. Please support and accept it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u105	Thank you. Is there a desire to share in the discussion? Please sign up. The subject of the legislative initiative has just reported. Pritika is one of the authors of this bill. It is written by Portnov, but so is Pritika, one of the drafters of the bill. We're not breaking anything here. Please, Voropeyev, prepare the Widow. You'll be out of town? Please, a microphone from the Voropayev area.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u106	I would like to draw the attention of all those present to this bill because I believe it is very important. At present, there are two branches of our judiciary: the first branch, civil affairs and the second branch, economic courts. Thus, we have, literally recently, considered, at the initiative of the Supreme Court, proposals concerning the workload, overburden of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, that the cassation complaints which should be dealt with under the law of the Supreme Court of Ukraine should not be dealt with by the Supreme Court, but by appeal courts on the ground. Under this bill, we have a conflict that exists now in legislation where the mass of economic disputes must be re-examined by the Supreme Court and left to the Supreme Court only the most important, on the most basic grounds, to review these cases. That's the first one. And the second. I will also vote in favour of this bill because only one in our judicial system is an economic court and is allowed to submit a cassation complaint to the High Economic Court without being heard by its appeal court. Never before in the history of that State has an appeal court been ignored on the ground. I will therefore vote in favour of this bill and call on you also to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u107	Gennady Josephovich Vudovenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u108	Thank you. I'd like a word with Oleg Laishka. I already gave him my stuff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u109	So Easy has four minutes, that's how I figured it out. Please, 4 minutes, Baby Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u110	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Of course, the question from which our faction is blocking the rostrum today is extremely important, and we will stand in it to the end. But the issue of ensuring the right of citizens to justice is just as important, and for these rights the citizens of Block Timoshenko will likewise stand to the end. Thus, the bill that is currently under consideration limits citizens' rights to a cassation of court decisions in household matters. The authors of the bill suggest that the right to appeal arises only after a review of the court’s decision in an appeal. I mean, you haven't filed an appeal, so you don't have the right to sue in a cassation order. But this is half of the Supreme Council of Jurists, and they know that an appeal can be filed on some grounds, and cassation can be applied on other grounds. Therefore, this proposal, and as highlighted in the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Office and in the referral of the Supreme Court of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Committee, contradicts article 129 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine, since the restriction on the right to appeal on decisions is a restriction on the rights of the parties to the trial. I don't think that's gonna be right, considering that we don't have confidence in the legality of many court decisions. Therefore, it is very difficult to convince society of the justice of the limitations of camaraderie. On the contrary, it will only increase distrust of the court, the legislator, and the state in general. It should be said that the proposed bill aims to remove the possibility of arraignment and the approval of the Supreme Court of Agriculture. Motivation of these proposals, the existence of acute problems with the consideration of complaints of cassation against the rulings of the High Court of Commerce, are not really justified in nature, as I am. It's a statistic. Since the adoption of the law on judicial procedure in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution by the Court of Justice in the domestic affairs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, almost 24,000 have been considered on appeal against the rulings and approvals of the Supreme Economic Court. I'm sorry. These have been disrupted in 2,150 cases. As a result of the proceedings, 1,840 decisions of the High Court of Commerce have been annulled on the grounds of misapplication of legislation, 440 cases have been found to have been annulled by the Supreme Economic Court of Justice of the Courts of First or Appeal. In fact, the problem is a fairly common practice of neglecting Ukraine’s Supreme Economic Court’s rights and legitimate interests. Under such circumstances, the draft law requires extremely substantial work in this regard, and we suggest that it be sent for further work rather than for decisions in the Supreme Council that limit the legitimate rights of Ukrainian citizens, either in the matter of payment of tariffs or in the matter of judicial protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u111	Thank you. You said it all right, although experts say it's a little off the books. This concludes the discussion. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure. Registration number 2566. Please vote. [[13:15:05]] For 244 The law was adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on minority shareholders]] Registration number 2030. The author of the initiative is Timoshenko Julia Volodymyrna. None. Yes, and here she is. Author. Well, then let's hear the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u112	The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy considered the bill at its meeting on 15 November and recommended that the Supreme Council send it for further work on what reasons. Reason one. The bill provides for the existence of only open-ended shareholders, does not provide for closed-stock companies and does not regulate how to deal with them. They are, they exist in life, and the law says nothing about what to do with them. The second question is why we also cannot accept the adoption of this bill. The right to pre-emptive purchase, which currently exists in both the open shareholding society and the closed shareholding society, has the right to purchase primary shareholdings. And in this case, we are asked to completely remove and sell all shares only through the stock exchange. The next point is the binding decision of the Committee of Minority Shareholders, which is provided for in article 26.1 of the bill. What is it? It is assumed that the minority shareholder is a person who owns at least one share. That is, two persons who own shares can set up a committee of their own, and the decisions of this committee are binding on the public administration, the shareholders' societies, the authorities of the shareholding societies, which, in my view, in the Committee's view, is very problematic and requires very careful and thorough consideration and refinement of this rule, so that it does not lead many reiders to use it to capture society by buying only one or two shares. Next moment. It is envisaged that the bill will establish associations of minority shareholders. These associations are expected to resolve all corporate disputes, which is also problematic. In view of all of this, the Committee proposes that it be sent for further processing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u113	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. I can see the hands, but I can't see the record. Please record again. Who's green, who's against red button? Yes, please, Checheov Mikhailo Vasilovich, please. A garden to prepare. Microphone from the scene, Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u114	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected national deputy, is proposed to give up the division of shareholders into closed and open societies, giving shareholders the right to alienate their shares without the consent of the company and other shareholders. Without denying the right of shareholders to be free of charge, we also pay attention to the following. The distribution of shareholders’ associations to closed and open is not only a matter of relevance but also a condition for such associations. In choosing one form or another, it was closed or open, and it was accepted by participants and shareholders. Thus, the forced discovery of closed shareholding societies would, in our view, be contrary to the charter of activities of closed societies, which would result in their re-registration with the corresponding undetermined stockholding status and rights of shareholders. So we think that the position of the project can hardly be called the protection of the rights of minority shareholders. Attention is also drawn to the position of the project, which calls for the introduction of shareholders to the whole of Ukraine’s merger of minority shareholders. In accordance with article 36 of the Constitution of Ukraine, no one can be forced to join any union of citizens. We also pay attention to the proposal to target at least 15% of the net profit of the company to pay dividends to shareholders. Without denying, from a private point of view, such an innovation, it should be noted that in this case it is a matter of involving the State in the authorization of the owner, of the distribution of profits resulting from, inter alia, the complexity of the modernization of production. I propose to reject this bill. This is the position of the faction of the Party of Regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u115	Please, Mikola Sadowa, the Socialist faction. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u116	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The very idea is certainly positive, but it must be sent for work in view of the fact that it is poor in such a way that it is presented and prepared. But there are stock companies that have been privatized. As for the cost of savings, the savings that we're talking about have been built. So when we start writing in the laws about one percent or the other of the equity companies that are privatized, it's going to go back to savings. If we are talking so often and so loudly about social protection, we need to talk about this part. This part is not included at all and is not reflected in this bill. Next, there are a few points that need to be clarified and clearly written. This is because the bill does not contain clear wording, so I can interpret it ambiguously. For example, a change to the part of article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Associations, which provides that if you purchase a person or with other persons more than 90% of the shares, each shareholder has the right to offer his shares within ninety days. It's not clear what time it is to count 90 days. One. Next, what kind of person, and with what persons? That's why we still have to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u117	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'm voting on the proposal. Now, wait, I'll see what the motion of the motion author is. Well, there is. So I'm going to put it this way: first I'm going to put the author's proposal to a vote, where it's proposed to adopt this law as a basis. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:23:43]] For-92 Not accepted. There was a decision, a proposal for a profile committee to return the draft law to the subject of the right to work. Please vote. [[13:24:14]] For the 180. Dear colleagues, why doesn't the committee itself vote on the decision to send for work? Don't they? Right. Dear colleagues, we need to get the day-to-day law number 3100 into order. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code on Liability for Violations of Radiation Security Rules. Yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that this law should be considered. The point is that there is a great deal of abuse of property left in the Blackwater AES alienation zone. And there's not enough that's being smuggled out of there, and they're processing it, and they're risking people's lives accordingly. I therefore ask for support for the inclusion in the agenda of the 3100 Bill on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Ukrainian Criminal Code on Liability for Violations of Radiation Security. Please vote. Integrating into the agenda. [[13:25:52]] For 234 It's on. And we're going to look at them this way, because there's a similar bill, really something in another field, in the Security Service. I'd like to inform the Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, Ivan Ivanovich Tkalenka, please. Get ready for Sunshine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, you are now invited to consider the Ukrainian bill on the legal regime of territories affected by radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. In violation of the radiation safety regime, administrative responsibility is provided, and criminal responsibility is provided only for violations of nuclear and radiation safety regulations and illicit treatment of radioactive materials. In recent times, however, in the alienation zone and in the area of unconditional evictions, there has been an increase in the incidence of entry into the area without the appropriate permission of persons for the purpose of export or illegal removal of material, equipment, and scrap metal. One reason for this is the softness of the punishment for doing the wrongs described above. Today, relations in this area are governed by article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Regime of the Territory, which has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster, by article 46. Ukraine Code on Administrative Violations and Article 265 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code In order to strengthen responsibility for violations of the rules of nuclear safety, radiation security by the Ministry and, in this case, the Cabinet of Ministers has developed a bill amending the Code of Administrative Violations and the Criminal Code on Liability for Violations of Radiation Security. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be up to you today whether or not there will be a further and further spread of this radiation dirt in the form of metal and especially wood. Today, there are a lot of things that happen in the forests that are being cut out and then scattered all over Ukraine as metal products and as wood products, this radioactive pollution. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u119	Thank you. Will there be questions? You don't? Yes. Sign up, please. No, we didn't vote for the cut. Please ask questions. Yeah, let's take five minutes. Bronnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, the bill that is currently being reported, is clearly necessary. And it must be adopted, because the proliferation of radioactive substances poses a threat not only to Ukraine's present existence but also to our descendants, because radioactive substances live. But I would like to point out that radioactive metals include siege pipes when we go through drilling on uranium-containing rocks. The bill is therefore to be finalized on second reading. Therefore, I ask him to accept it on first reading, and on second reading, we will finish it together with the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u121	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u122	Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u123	Dear reporter, Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Well, you and I know very well that metal is going to end up there sooner or later with this radioactivity of these 800 temporary funerals that are there. There's another problem besides metal, and you know it. It's about burning coal out of a radioactive forest that's not only in a 30-thickel zone, it's around it. And this coal is now being supplied to the markets in bags to then be used there for barbecues, there are hazelnuts and other things, etc. As a result, only metal was covered in the bill. As you might think, maybe we should just fill in and, let's say, put some coal in here. Because building materials from these old buildings have long been removed and houses are built, and people live under this radioactive press today. Now I'm interested in the problem of this coal. This has now become a very big problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u124	Thank you for asking. If you refer to the 3rd article, it provides for the export not only of metal, but also of domestic goods, objects, land, clay, sand, peat, wood, plants, food, medical plants, mushrooms and everything else. I mean. And here you can just add the wood processing and what you're saying accordingly. I think we'll add that to the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u125	Sergey Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u126	John Ivanovich, such a question. We have another law in turn that has introduced a government that envisages changes to article 265. So there are two texts for the same article, John Ivanovich. How we're going to get out of such a colossal situation, when one law offers berries, mushrooms criminal responsibility, and the other is administrative responsibility. I mean, the committee, when they looked at it, paid attention. We criminalize that there was no prior prohibition, and even what was forbidden was fined in administrative order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u127	I got you. You realize that no one will give a period for mushrooms, because one thing you can get for mushrooms is 10-20, up to 100 non-taxable minimums, and the other when you get radiators, batteries. There's no need to formalize. I think that responsibility will depend on the extent to which it is directed against the health of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u128	Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u129	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. We're only talking about Chernobyl today. The bill probably doesn't, and I'm sure the bill doesn't just have to talk about the Chernobyl area. For example, in the Kirovograd region. 95 percent of uranium raw material is produced in the Kirovograd region, and there is metal that is worn out, and there is granite, which is often used to pave roads, to cover roads, and even to build. So this bill I propose to extend not only to the Chernobyl area and not only to those Chernobyl objects that we are talking about today, but also to the wider one, especially to capture what is in the Kirovograd region, in Malovsky, in particular, the region and similar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u130	Thank you for asking. I think it'll be relevant if we complete this bill and export materials that have radioactive pollution regardless of territory.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u131	Thank you, Ivan Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. I'm making a point, I've talked about it, I haven't exactly named the post -- the minister in connection with the Supreme Council. Yes, from the profile committee, please, head of the committee, Vladimir Mikolaiovich Stretovich. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Law Enforcement at its meeting discussed the draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Code of Administrative Violations and the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on responsibility for violations of radiation safety rules]] The purpose of its adoption is to ensure compliance with the requirements of the radiation safety regime and to increase the responsibility for their violations. In particular, the bill proposes to complete the title of Article 265 of the Criminal Code, as well as to supplement new parts that provide criminal responsibility for the removal or removal from a specially defined area of radioactive pollution, radioactive materials without statutory permission, with a view to their purchase for use or purchase for the purpose of sale. [[second and third]] In addition, it is suggested that administrative responsibility be increased for violating radiation safety requirements in areas affected by radioactive pollution. After reviewing the draft law, the committee considers that it should be included in the agenda of the day’s session and that it should be accepted on the first reading as a basis. I emphasize, Adam Ivanovich, on a basis, not in general, since another bill has been tabled at the same time, which will be considered today. His registration number is 2695. And they all offer virtually the same changes. Only Law 3,100 refers to contaminated materials, and the second law on radiation materials. Thus, in preparation for the second reading, we will need to clean up this matter legally, duly write down the changes to article 265. Otherwise, if we don't do that, we're going to get into some kind of trouble that's going to be very difficult to get out of, including in scientific and legal administration. It is therefore proposed that this bill be adopted on a basis which the committee supports. In preparation for second reading, work on legal and legislative techniques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u133	Thank you. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Please sign up. It's been here since the factions first. Yes, now, please, which of the deputies? Yeah, well, I've got four national deputies. Let's give 12 minutes then to get everyone out of here. Bronjik, please. Prepare for Garden. Turn on Bronikov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u134	Dear colleagues, combating the proliferation of radioactive materials is a struggle that shows Ukraine's ability to use nuclear energy for peaceful purposes in principle. And it is natural that all means must be used in this fight. These are legislative instruments, both administrative means and technical means to prevent unauthorized traffic in radioactive materials. In this regard, the need for the Government to use technical means is particularly important. The metal contaminated by the Government must return to circulation under the control of the Government. There are technologies for deactivation and treatment of metal, both in the special industry and in the general industry. Moreover, respectable colleagues, we must clearly attach these bills to general legislation on radioactive waste, which should clearly understand what radioactive pollution is, what radioactive material is. It's not in the bill yet. Third. We must consider, in finalizing this bill, the natural radiation that arises from drilling work that occurs in the mining of uranium-containing ore layers. These materials must be monitored by the State. In this regard, both bills are fully relevant, but they must be finalized so that all legislation can be combined: both legislation in nuclear energy and radioactive waste and legislation in criminal administrative responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u135	Thank you. Mikola Sadowa, please. Prepare Bulby Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u136	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. As far as the bill is concerned, it is extremely important and needs to be worked with, and it needs to be adopted in the end. But in the end, after working hard with him. The thing is, there's a reason and there's a result. Today, we are discussing a law that is only of a consequence, but little is said about the reasons behind this. What reasons, then, do we need to take into account in order to adopt such a law? I'm going to list just a few things that cause this law to have to be passed, and I need to be adopted after the work. Well, first of all, moments like this. We had strategic shafts. And there was certainly a variety of pollution. They got dumped under the explosion, and then these remaining materials were shipped around the villages accordingly, and they made the bridges there, something else, something like that. The other is the nuclear warhead sites that were in their time. All of this must also be taken into account. I was talking about uranium mines, and I was talking about coal and granite mines. Of course, this is to be taken into account. We also need to take into account this pollution as a gene, which is the result of uranium production, which is related to uranium mines, and it's much more dangerous than metal that has radioactive pollution and other materials that are caused by technology accordingly. Nuclear power plants also need to be taken into account, for there are also many such substances that need to be activated and protected from the spread of pollution. As far as the area is concerned, we need to examine them, because those radioactive pollution zones that were previously defined are clearly out of date, and they need to be reviewed for inclusion, including the Kirovograd area in the area. Because there, everyone knows, the whole world knows that radioactive pollution is and needs to be fought and people need to be protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u137	Thank you. Stepan Bulba Matviyenkovo gives the word. Please, Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u138	Thank you. Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, indeed, the issue is not very simple and very serious; we have two as constituents in this direction and I would like to draw attention to both. The first is just the use of radiation scrap, so far, in conditions. When a working scrap metal industry is practically locked up, when the entire debris that was on the surface could easily be obtained for processing, virtually everything has been reworked. Both in this situation and in the situation where we exported and exported between 3 million and 5 million tons outside Ukraine, unfortunately every year, the entire surface debris was taken away. Freely or reluctantly, provided that the price of the scrap increases and is today 200 or more dollars per tonne, freely or freely arises, well, let us say so, the attraction of this radiation fracture, which is located in areas of alienation, which is not required in these areas today, so that it can be easily obtained, cut and resold, so to speak, for metallurgical enterprises. Of course, this has to be stopped, the process has to be halted. And this bill offers options that can regulate these things in this regard. That's the first one. But the second ingredient is equally important and should be addressed. To date, there is a clear system for monitoring the use of radiation scrap. Today, there is also this control system in the retail sector. And the scrap-processing law provides clear controls for the use of such scrap. The law, life, unfortunately, shows that we have the law in one direction and life in the other, but that ideology is now being used very intensively by our competitors in the external markets. And today, more and more often, we can hear our competitors' statements, we can hear the statement of those States where we are exporting our own scrap metal products that we will not accept Ukrainian metal products because it is made of radiation scrap. And today, more and more often, such topics are being heard in international forums, and today, more and more often, such topics are being heard in international symposiums and international treaties. And so in order to stop such speculations, in order to get away from them, so to speak, we need to adopt a law that strengthens the system of work with radiation failure, to streamline the system. And along with the scrapbooking law, which had already settled those points, it had strengthened and streamlined the system of work in that direction. That is why we will support this bill and its legislation. and after the finalization, we shall vote for it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u139	Thank you. Ivan Bondarchuk. Weak? Please, Vitalia Šibka's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u140	Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich, thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that this is an urgent question, it's already gained international publicity. Why? Because at the last session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it was planned to be considered, and this was where the first issue concerned Ukraine. And the question was exactly about the radiation scrap of black metals. But it happened that the Bureau did not fully agree on the need to consider the urgent matter. It's working today, and I think that later on in the session that's scheduled for April, the question will be considered. This once again indicates that we may be negatively affected by the image of Ukraine. Because this is the issue that is being raised, there will be appropriate conclusions not only about this metal, but also about what is happening in Ukraine. And I think today, if there's a warning that you only have to take as a basis, they're useless, these warnings. Why? Because it's about the need to accept it right away. When it comes to another bill that was presented today in the speech of the committee’s head, it is another area, and today it is about a radiation fracture. So we have to adopt this law, see how it works. I think he's a weighty law. And then we're moving away from how we can move forward with decisions in general, what's in another bill. Because it's not just about the wreckage, it's about the territory, it's about the other pollution that's important today. So I think, given what's been said today, given the bill itself, we need to adopt this bill today as a whole so that we can have weight, fight this evil in Ukraine itself, and restore our image in the international arena. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u141	Thank you. Discussion, Your Honor, is over. All those who had the opportunity to speak said that such a law was necessary. I am voting on the adoption on the basis of the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences and the Criminal Code on Liability for Violations of Radiation Security. Bill number 3100. Please vote. [[13:48:51]] For 231 Copy that. Of course, it would be better if we now accepted it as the law, but there is a denial. So I'm giving a protocol commission to the profile committee for the plenary week, which we're going to start on March 13th to prepare for the second reading so that we can look at it and accept it. March 13th plenary week. I ask you to vote for this, because there may be short notices, please vote. [[13:49:33]] For 230 I mean, it was decided that on March 13, that the plenary committee would prepare for the second reading of the bill that week. We voted because there might be short notices, maybe we didn't want to break them, so we made that decision with you, and that gives us the right to do so, to shorten some deadlines for preparation for the second reading. And we're looking at a related bill. This is a draft law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code to combat nuclear terrorism in connection with the ratification of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, registration number 2695. He reports on the responsibilities of the Head of the Security Service, Mr. Please be prepared by the committee who will prepare, Snitschenko or Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I propose a bill to amend the Ukrainian Criminal Code to combat nuclear terrorism, which we propose in connection with the ratification by our State of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. The bill is important in terms of strengthening the fight both by the Security Service and by other law enforcement agencies of our country against acts of nuclear terrorism. It fully complies with international law. He's passed through the Supreme Council's profile committee. And that will increase the capacity of the State and the services, in particular, to fight with our international partners with any manifestations or attempts to use our territory, both for the transit of nuclear materials, yes, do not lead the Lord, to acts of terrorism or to try to do them in our territory. A bill has been agreed upon with all the authorities. We'd like your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u143	Thank you. Will there be questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u144	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Mr. Nostawaiko, there is no doubt that before it is a good law, it must be adopted. However, I am interested in another, the law of law, but there is practice, there are certain specific situations in life. Ukraine has a direct, as it were, share in the possibilities, do not bring to the Lord and the Typun on my tongue your part. Why? We have deposits, large deposits of uranium, so this is our first involvement, this is Kirovgradsty our legendary, these are other places. This is the first time. It's different. After the Chernobyl disaster, we know that waste, nuclear waste is scattered, is actually scattered throughout Ukraine. I've already talked about it today, and I repeat that we have about a thousand temporary funerals. As a member of the service, what is the level of our protection? How this law will help you to secure Ukraine from possible participation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u145	Thank you, Mr. Volodymyr. First. This will increase criminal responsibility for even attempting to commit a nuclear - related crime. The other one. This will allow and ensure the fulfilment by our nation of international obligations under the Convention on Combating Acts of Nuclear Terrorism, ratified by the Supreme Council, and we are very grateful for this, March 25, this year. And the third. This will enhance the ability of the service that I really represent here today, I have the honour to work with international partners. I would like to report that the state of this active co-operation today goes with the services of NATO member countries, with neighbouring countries, including Russia, Turkey, and we can now say with certainty that our territory is not allowed to be used for transit or for receiving criminals from our territory or groups, or individuals of nuclear materials or their components. At the same time, I can honestly admit that there is no time to relax, and we must strengthen both criminal responsibility and international cooperation and the role of the service in this process.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u146	Santa Claus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u147	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. Here my colleague has already talked about the fact that Kirovograd is not only celebrated there in 100 counties, but not only by the elections of the mayor, which have just taken place with a grave violation of the legislation of the territorial electoral commission, but also by possible nuclear terrorism, which is, in principle, possible under the terms of the city and under the conditions of those people who live there and who act. I have a few questions about this. First question. It's pretty clear about nuclides. But nuclides, the physical term isn't exactly quality. So is there a decryption of what nuclides are and what else is radioactive material? That's the first question. And the second question. Are there clear places for possible action, terrorist action against nuclear terrorism? That's two of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u148	Thank you. I answer specifically and essentially. I can assure you that nuclear terrorism is impossible for a moment in Ukraine. The other one. Nuclides, radioactive materials, interpretation. This interpretation is in the convention to which we have joined, and the relevant recommendations of the Secretariat to the depositary of this convention. Ukraine thus accepted these interpretations by joining and ratifying the convention at the same time, including what you mean by MAGATE’s recommendations. And the last question is your place. All places are possible and not only places, but also transit possibilities. The seaports, the airlines, are under strict control. What it needs to be improved, I admit, but what we do daily and every minute, anyway, is our daily work as well. That's what I assure you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u149	Quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u150	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Quickly, a faction of socialists. Valentina Alexanderovich, I have a very simple question for you: Is there money for this? Because everything you've just said is very good, but it needs to be created in Ukraine, starting with the active companies that have to do it today, before the ones that are doing it today, because if you take the Yellow Waters, they're completely fueled by these materials, and there's total production stopped there today. So this has to be some kind of monitoring that has to do with everything and everything. And doesn't it violate, if there is, really, this monitoring and money on it is, it doesn't violate somewhere the human right to have us monitor a particular case, do anything else that falls under the Convention of Human Rights today and so forth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u151	Dear Vitalia Yakovich, thank you. I just got back, and we were holding an inter-ministerial coordinating commission to combat terrorism. Under the Law on Combating Terrorism, such a commission was established. So there's an interministerial mechanism that works as part of an anti-terrorist centre at the BSS. These include the first deputies and directors of all ministries and offices without exception. Including in view of this interdisciplinary mechanism, there are also places. And those businesses you mentioned. It's about money. ATC funding, I admit, has been approved separately in the State Budget and the money enough. The problem is that this money is used in a controlled and efficient way. In fact, the physical protection of nuclear facilities, basically the physical protection of appropriate enterprises that are subordinated either to the Ministry of Industrial Policy or to other ministries, is certainly a situation that requires additional financing of the industry, and requires additional and principle control over the maintenance and control of the storage and control of those objects. I admit that there is also a need for additional funding, and additional measures, and Parliament's control in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u152	Thank you, Valentin Alexanderovich. Have a seat, please. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. At 15. We're a little bit alike. This is in accordance with the Rules, my colleague. Read it. Please turn on the microphone from the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u153	Dear Chairman! Dear fellow national MPs! The 2695 bill, which had just been reported from the rostrum, was considered by the Committee on Legal Protection, but as just considered in registration 3,100, he proposes to complete the amendments to article 265 of the Criminal Code. What I'm saying is that the last bill just reported for implementation of the provisions of the Convention on Nuclear Terrorism is more perfect both in terms of theory and in terms of legislative technology. It proposes systemic changes to the article on smuggling, the illegal treatment of radioactive materials, and the violation of regulations on such substances. But like the previous bill of 3100, he intervenes in the legal will of article 265 of the Criminal Code, so by proposing to adopt the bill as a basis, the committee again commits itself to preparing them and the corresponding edition of article 265 may be branded 1 to second reading and approved as a whole. Therefore, I propose that we approve of the basis and give the committee a proper commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u154	Thank you, Vladimir Mikolaiovich. Shall we discuss it? Nobody insists? None. Then I would like to put to the vote a proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to combat nuclear terrorism in connection with the ratification of the International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. Registration number 2695. Vote. I went on for 15 minutes, so. I've moved on, don't worry. You didn't hear that. [[14:01:00]] For 234 Copy that. Dear colleagues, once again, I'm going to the profile committee. Vladimir Mikolaiovich! Streetwich! Once again, the request that you are parallel, not parallel, but simultaneously preparing these bills for us to adopt them in the second reading, because they are interconnected. And here I am being ambushed and urged to vote with you in Order No. 3201. This is Sovkovich's ruling: to inform the Minister of Interior of Ukraine Tsushka about the situation in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to hear from the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine Tsushka Vasil Petrovich on 23 February 2007 about the situation in the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. Please vote in favour of this order. [[14:02:16]] For 241 Decision taken. I'd like to ask the profile committee, along with the author of the initiative, to prepare the rules, how we're going to listen and so forth. Stratovic moment, please give me a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u155	Adam Ivanovich, tomorrow's committee will begin its work at 3 p.m. However, if there is no draft decision made accordingly, there will be no formal basis, the committee will not consider it, as this is contrary to the Rules. That's why I'm asking the legislators to come to the committee themselves, to express their views, to present their arguments, and the relevant documentaries were from the Scientific and Organizational Department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-20-m0.u156	Provided we vote on the decree that we are listening to it on Friday. Now, as a result of the hearing, that's another question. But listen to us today have made a decision, 241 votes, that we are listening to the interior minister’s information on the situation that took place in this ministry on Friday. So, are we gonna work for another 10 minutes or not? At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
