ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u1	Good day, distinguished national MPs, guests of Ukraine, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Christ Voscres!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u2	Today's the 9th, April. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[12:04:42]] 258 deputies registered. The morning session is open. Faction leaders offered to hold parliamentary meetings at 12 in the morning to review several documents from the Supreme Council and to exchange ideas about the evolution of the political situation. In view of what is happening today in Ukraine, there is a need for this, so it was decided to call you today in accordance with the decision we made last week and in such a sequence to build a job. First, take half an hour to discuss the situation, listen to the opinions of our representatives from factions and deputies separately, and then look at draft decrees. Yes, let us establish the order of the day relative to. Actually, let's do it now. The circulation hasn't been distributed yet, has it? Oh, you've got it on your hands. It's on your hands. Then, you have the agenda: the draft Decree 3454 “On application to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for pressure from the President to the Constitutional Court”, the draft Decree “On the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian People”, 3456 – the draft Decision “On the establishment of the Interim Inquiry Commission of the Supreme Council on the establishment of officials of the Security Service of Ukraine who are guilty of issuing illegal orders for the organisation and reporting of telephone conversations and monitoring of national deputies, judges of the Constitutional Court, courts of general jurisdiction and members of the Central Electoral Commission”. Reporting to the Chechetov People's Deputy. And the draft of the Decision on turning the Supreme Council of Ukraine to Heads of State, Government, Parliaments of the countries of Europe – the countries of security of Ukraine, inter-State and inter-parliamentary institutions – is also defined by Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. So I'm voting on the proposal to put these issues in order of day and deal with them. Please. [[12:07:28]] For 253 And before we made a deal from the beginning, first of all, half an hour's worth of communication based on the practice that we have in the line of work. So please, from the factions who will sign up, please. Now just who wants to speak to the MPs. We're taking 30 minutes. From the faction of socialists, Volga, will you? Oh, no? Ivan Sidorovich, please. Boki Ivan Sidorovich instead of Volga.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u3	Dear fellow countrymen, distinguished national deputies and guests! On the day of the dispatch of the Holy Spirit, the global Satan reminded the hero of the Ukrainian house of Viktor Yushchenk as the Pharisee of the wicked and the most cunning of the Pharisees, who put the cross in their image while at the same time giving their soul to the Devil, to take action against their state and upon the people. Under the bellows of a famous lady who runs with an inflamed blast of devil's fire under the Ukrainian roof, under the cacophony of impaling her criminally inclined and corrupting ogres from the circle of surrounding areas, who shamelessly exploits the bizarre messian bonapartist exploits of his Ottoman, a man with the title of President of Ukraine took an interest in the highest body of legislation and the national representation of the Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council. How'd you swing? Perhaps everyone remembers the famous words of Condrati Rileyev, the author of the famous Voynarovsky, a deacábrist who is satrapied. Michael Palkin's enemy of any parliamentaryism was hanged twice. After the first breakup, Riley said: “And we will not be able to hang properly!” So, the political descendant of Mikola I Victor Yushchenko, who has long pretended to be a Democrat, has not even been able to hang the Supreme Council of Human Beings. Judge for yourself. He has been preparing for the execution of parliament for a long time since the defeat of our Ukraine in the elections. Unless the fool believes today that he's talking about treason and the usurpation of power by coalitions. But how. in the so-called April 2nd consultations, which he called "political consultations" in the invitations, and in the opening “consultations on the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council”. But even consultations, either as a plumber, failed to follow the tradition established in the world. He listened to everyone, but he only heard himself. He did not even try to reconcile his position with the leadership of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions. As for the signing of the protocol and the fixing of the protocol, he agreed by all parties to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council and completely forgot. Dicko? It's a hell of a place. Because Parliament’s resignation around the world is traditionally initiated by the ruling coalition and government. We have everything the other way around. It's like pulling a tooth through a straight gut. Through the right gut, elections are organized, carried like a fool with a state of emergency and direct or crooked presidential rule. And by following the Papua, Ukraine, contrary to the Constitution, is probably left without a single branch of power, the legislative one. Masters who usurp power do not know how to read their own Constitution, but learn what it is like for people, and they do not want to read their own Constitution. And then some.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u4	Let me finish! Five minutes from the faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u5	And then some presidential telephone player tells the MPs that they're not going to do it without even reading the order of their ammunition. And now his patron and his right hand, which of the merchants of the seal, speak in one voice of the living and active Supreme Council that it is not. They say they know the letters, they speak of some spirit, and look at the saints. By mutilating their native language, they say something about democracy, becoming their graves. Well, you already know that Ukraine’s Ministry of Defence and Security is actively involved in solving the political situation, although it is prohibited by both the Constitution and special laws. The mountain anointing is ready to leave as wolves for the MPs of the ringed fighters, which he promised at the so-called consultations. I think we are now in a position to consider the management of the Ministry of Defence and Security of Ukraine in order to remind them of who they are in this state and what responsibility they are and what an oath they have given to the people, not to the President. I propose that we address the Ukrainian people with a statement that we must reveal to people the whole truth about today's anti-government rebellion, about what moves them. And let the people judge what the one who swore on the Bible and on the Constitution to develop democracy, and now puts it in the grave, let them all see its immorality and the lack of what man does — his conscience and conscience. Look, he wasn't even taught to blush when he was lying. I think today we will all be unanimous in that the next decision of the Constitutional Court should lead Ukraine out of the political crisis. But you just can't trust him. Therefore, every citizen of our nation must be held accountable for the fate of this nation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u6	Thank you. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I ask all speakers to pay attention to this. Today there is a constitutionally elected parliament. It's working. We have a constitutionally elected president. It's working. And there's a constitutional government that works, too. So the relationship with the entire focus of the political assessment of what's going on in the state has to be absolutely correct, balanced, because that's what we claim to be the authority of the state. I would like to be guided by those who speak with us. He has the word for Borschevsky Simonenko. He will be followed by Gnatenko from “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u7	Respectable voters. Speaking on behalf of the Communist faction, I would like to state the following and to warn you that, in all the assessments that we are making today, the country is on the verge of civil opposition. The unconstitutional and therefore criminal decrees of the President on the deployment of the Supreme Council have led to ongoing discussions in the Presidential Secretariat today on the introduction of a state of emergency in the country. To that end, the composition of the National Security Council has been changed and those who are blind enforcers of the President's instructions and policies have been introduced. There are American advisers on the President's Secretariat today. The BSBs in the areas sign the commitments of allegiance to the President, and by no means today, the Supreme Council, understanding the threat of civil opposition, asks the establishment of a Special Investigative Commission to investigate the activities of staff members of the BSS who violate everything and are forced to sign such decisions today. The Ministry of Defence, which is headed by a person who has been educated in United States special educational institutions, declares that he will only comply with the President's orders, and today the President is a source of tension in society and a source of civil opposition. The internal forces are withdrawn from the authority of the Minister of the Interior and are directly subject to the President. In the territory of the General Intelligence Directorate, as was known yesterday, there are GRU personnel who are on high alert and ready to follow instructions. All of this suggests that we must be very careful to address this situation and to take urgent and decisive action by Parliament together with the Government. What else would I like to say, drawing the attention of our constituents? Respectful voters, who have doubts about such actions by the President, think about the following. The President speaks of the need for early elections, including by all sociologists, including the President, and states that early elections will lead to the same assembly of parliament with the strengthening of the positions of our coalition, which today is part of the Coalition for National Unity. Thus, the task is not for early elections, but rather for parliament to resolve the issues before the elections. And they were next in line. These commitments were made in exchange for the support of his Americans in the elections. This is Ukraine, a controlled American territory, Ukraine, a member of NATO and Ukraine, a for-post in the fight against Russia. Conclusions. Today's conclusions are that this kind of policy of Yushchenko through the emergency and all the measures that he has set for the country today is indeed a division of the country in order to place NATO under the protection and control of NATO through the separation of Ukraine. In other ways, it is impossible for him to resolve the issue, apart from his violent civil opposition, what he promised the Americans. Conclusion. Yushchenko and Timoshenko are a team of travellers today and we need to talk about this directly. Their task is to ensure NATO, the ABM, the influence through Ukraine on old Europe, the capture of control over the gas transport system and, of course, the control of the U.S.S. to put Russia's defence capabilities at risk, and thus to drag Russia into the new arms race, it becomes obvious. In domestic policy, it is the destruction of parliamentaryism, because of increased social tension, the break of the gas contract with Russia. Timoshenko is actually destroying the village through a meat crisis and a sugary one. Investments remain, and the Government is already concerned. The inflationary spiral is unfolding and is thus losing hope for our people in Ukraine that there is something else that can be done. And naturally, the tension of the economy. What must be done, in my view, is that we, members of the Communist faction, are offering along with the Cabinet of Ministers. This is today to place under increased security the country's life-support facilities, nuclear, thermal power plants, mines, metallurgical and chemical plants, the Ministry of Energy, the National Bank, that is, all those enterprises that truly form the basis of both the economy and the country's governance and, more so, life-support. I believe that we must decide today on the establishment of the Special Investigation Commission to investigate what is being done in the BIS and must ask our Government to propose to the Supreme Council the suspension of the duties of Defence Minister Gritsenko. I believe that such decisive measures should be of practical assistance
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u8	Leo Mikolaiovich Gnatenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u9	National MP Lev Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, Head of the Committee of Legislative Affairs of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. On the seventh count, a group of members of the Defence and Security Committee had been informed that some parts of the special forces had increased their military readiness. The Group of Deputies, composed of: Gnatenko, Bulba, Antipov and Kalashnikov, went to the General Intelligence Unit to make sure that it was indeed yes or no. We have previously requested the Minister of Defence to allow the people's deputies to the territory of the General Intelligence Department, which we have been denied, and we have received assurances from the Minister of Defence that all military forces are in a state-of-the-art regime and that there are no changes in the level of readiness. During the hour, the Chief of Intelligence prevented members of the Defence and Security Committee from entering the territory of his military unit. And only after the hourly break, meeting with journalists and TV cameras did he decide to allow us into his facility. The Chief of Staff said that everything was fine, there was no change. At the same time, when we checked the special-purpose unit, we saw that on Saturday, on the holiday day, 38 special-purpose fighters, all of them officers, very heavily trained for the main task of acting in the rear of the enemy, were in semi-arms with the issue of ammunition from military personnel in high numbers and with their weapons. Question is, who gave the team? We got a command: oral order. Who gave the team here? Oral order. Why have people been brought into combat, and why are they on duty with weapons of war? The answer was this: we are preparing to protect the archive. What an archive the people's deputies had set, and there was no archive. That is to say, the Minister of Defence, the Chief of Intelligence, is misleading the people's deputies and our public. We have therefore decided that representatives, members of the Supreme Council from the Defence and Security Committee will be forced to travel from a special assignment located in the city of Kiev and other cities to make sure that other parts are in the same constant readiness. [[& Tiles]] It's scary to watch -- people, I repeat -- parts of the special purpose, they can explode, they can kill, they're people trained, they're about 20 to 30 ordinary people who are here, and they're armed with sniper rifles, machine guns, steak guns, and so on. That is, this group can commit a major and serious crime in Kiev. We disarmed this group, talked to people, sent them home, and we were assured that this would never happen again. Tomorrow our team is going to the Ministry of Defence to recheck what is in these parts. I would like to refer once again to the Minister of Defence and to all officers and generals of the Ministry of Defence. I am Lieutenant General Gnatenko Lev Nikolaevich, a participant in the fighting in Afghanistan, I tell you all: “Friends, be vigilant, the Constitution for all, and we must only do what we swore — to Ukraine’s loyalty, to protect it from the external enemy.” And the second question. On television, on the First Channel, I was asked that you were alone with the representatives of the BUT who said that the representatives of other political factions who became independent deputies had abandoned them. I officially declare that it is we, the MPs who today are extra-fractional, who have not been part of any other faction, and we declare that it was we who initiated the meeting of the President and that the coalition retain its 238 people, and we have taken our stand in accordance with the programmes with which we went to the elections. This is our initiative, and I officially declare it to the press. I wish all peace, tranquillity and happiness on our earth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u10	Thank you. The word from the faction of the regions is Hara Vasil Grigorovich, please instead of Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u11	Dear colleagues! Respectable voters! The Saturday numbers “Government courier” and “The Voice of Ukraine” publish the material of the Special Commission of the Supreme Council, which provides a legal assessment of the President's decrees and orders. Any person, even far from legal practice, can see that President Yushchenko is a systematic, if you will, vicious, violation of the Constitution. He does it himself or puts his young hawks out of his environment, it's not that important. Yushchenko is personally responsible for the opposition in the country that is taking place today, for impeding the population into civil war, for the eventual division of Ukraine. Since the time of the Ancients of Greece, the country of democracy has been the only parliament and no one else has been the backbone of democracy, and the anti-constitutional expansion of Parliament has meant the end of democracy, the establishment of a dictatorship in Ukraine. The Constitution of Ukraine in article 90, perhaps a thousand times, we repeat from this rostrum, gives clear language to the reasons why the President is entitled to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council in advance. There's only three of them. There is the first if no coalition has been formed within one month of the election. We've been through this. The second is unless Kabmin has been formed for 60 days. We formed it in two days. Third, unless the plenary meeting starts within 30 days of one session. We've been through that, too. None of these reasons are fixed in the President's anti-constitutional decree. Article 106 of the Constitution, paragraph 8, expressly declares that the President of Ukraine shall terminate the powers of the Supreme Council in the cases provided for in the Constitution only. Yushchenko understands that well, and his environment. But they deliberately lead the way to establishing a dictatorship: they heat up the army, they issue weapons, including optical targets, and so on. He did not spare the President and the light holiday of Christ's resurrection, he violated the Orthodox canons. Well, I've been living in this light for 60 years, and I don't remember this case, driving the hysteria out of the holy place. His words were sacrilegious in the Temple of St. Sofia: “My constitutional decree, there is no way back, the forces are carrying out the President’s commands.” Yushchenko is well aware that he has grossly violated the Constitution, and he has nothing to expect from a decision of the Constitutional Court, whose conclusions will be clear, to declare the President's decree unconstitutional. He's already decided there's no way back for him. What happens to Ukraine, to its citizens, he doesn't care. By the way, in a meeting with the Prime Minister, the first Vice Prime Minister was tempted by the President to say that if we are with you and we find a common language, if you don't give up, let him solve the elements and the streets. In fact, the President has blessed the bloodshed in Ukraine and is preparing for it. A party of the regions of Ukraine, the coalition insists that the decision of the Constitutional Court should be awaited, that it should not be pressured, as the President and the environment have done, not to interfere with its activities, and that its decision should be binding on all parties to the conflict. If under pressure, threats, blackmail, and blackmail, the Presidential Team is to obtain decisions from the Constitutional Court that benefit Yushchenko, then, as the President of the Sofia Council called, it is necessary to clean up and clean up everyone. First of all, Yushchenko, who has become practically the “president of civil war” and his paramilitary environment. We will insist on the first extraordinary election of the President of Ukraine, the second in the extraordinary election of the Supreme Council, the third in the referendum on NATO, as recorded in the University of National Unity. And we would like to remind Yushchenko and his team that article 60 of the Constitution warns that there is legal responsibility for the issuance and implementation of the criminal order. Let this cool down the President's hot head and environment today. It's not too late to save the country from disaster. Once again, I turn to the Cabinet of Ministers, which is the supreme executive body: obey the law, abide by the Constitution, protect Ukraine and the people from disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u12	Corge, please. It was someone who pressed the wrong button, obviously. Jaroslav Petrovich Mendus, please. From the House of Deputies. Well, it's on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u13	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! After Victor Yushchenk issued the anti-constitutional decree to dissolve the higher legislature, the President went beyond the constitutional field, committed a civil crime, violated the President's oath. But the intensity with which he insists on his own wrong and foolish idea of usurping power is evidence of a specific plan that is likely to have been developed outside Ukraine and that does not address Ukraine’s national interests. The sociology of the last days strongly shows that about 60 percent of our fellow citizens do not accept the idea of an early election because they are well aware that it is a way to go. This is the way to deepen civil resistance, this is the way to bring down all social programs, to finally destroy Ukraine's investment appeal. As a cold shower on the heads of the Bank’s usurpers, a democratic European position broke out. I will allow myself to quote how I commented on the Ukrainian situation on the representative of the Monitoring Committee, the rapporteur of the Monitoring Committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Renata Wolvent Council of Europe. Describing the situation in Ukraine, she said: “The main reason for the President’s decision to dissolve Parliament was his attempt to stop the transition of parliamentarians from one faction to another. I fear that these are legally insufficient grounds for the dissolution of Parliament." Next: “If the Order is declared unconstitutional, President Yushchenka will have to resign.” Similarly, he formulates his position and co-chair of the Parliamentary Cooperation Committee between Ukraine and the European Union, Adrian Severin. In its anti-constitutional actions, Yushchenko can only rely on the support of those officials who are willing to ignore the Constitution together, which means they are ready for any illegal action. In this respect, the position of Defence Minister Gristenk, who was both at the government meeting and at the Council of National Security and Defence, openly stated that he would “direct his actions not by the Constitution, but by the orders of the President of Ukraine and be ready to use the army to stabilize the situation”. It's a quote. I would like to remind myself of article 17 of the Constitution of Ukraine. “The armed forces of Ukraine and other military formations cannot be used by anyone to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens or to bring down the constitutional system.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u14	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u15	“removal of authorities or obstacles to their activities”. Under these circumstances, I propose that the Cabinet of Ministers consider the question of whether Anatoly Grizzenk's position as Minister of Defense is appropriate, because he can become a tool to instigate society into irreparable blood. And all the people with guns, I want to quote the Constitution again. Article 19. “The rule of law in Ukraine is based on the principles under which no one can be forced to do what is unforeseeable by legislation.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u16	The main faction of the Party of Regions says that. And Corge has, I can see in the hall, his microphone's not on. Instead, he invites Mirasnika Vadim to speak. Is that what I'm saying? Please, Miroshnichenko. So write it like that. It's Christmas Eve. Excuse me, please. I'm out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u17	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that President Yushchenko is not going to hold extraordinary elections. Because it is obvious to all that it is not legal, it is not technically possible to do so at the specified time. And that was known in advance. So what is Mr. Yushchenko's goal? And what was his goal when he treated the Russian-speaking population for half a year, declaring the Russian Fifth Column and with the hands of his supporters, traitors and the Fifth Column, the hand of Moscow. For what purpose it spits in the face of three quarters of Ukraine, announcing the need for the construction of the Museums of Soviet occupation. It is all one task to provoke civil conflict, civil unrest. Because he's got, like, a ocean puppet because he got a job in the fourth year that he didn't do. There is one goal and one goal: to overthrow the Ukrainian State, to introduce blue helmets in the Yugoslav version, in order to deploy the ABM troops, NATO troops and then to resolve from the position of force of the relationship with Russia. I can say this: President Yushchenko has already deliberately violated the Constitution. On 19 December, he handed over 4 and a half million signatures of people requiring a referendum on NATO. Of these, 119 thousand were out of work. However, he had already been obliged to make a decision on NATO, but he did not. He's got a burning ground under his feet, he's got to do his bidding. Therefore, he will not stop at anything to unleash a civil war in Ukraine. It has already been said that article 19 of the Constitution states that no one can force persons of public administration and local governments to comply with acts or orders that do not comply with the Constitution. This must be understood by the representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the representatives of the BSS, because I believe that it is not the Gestapo, which President Yushchenko and his belligerent call wants to make, but it is our people, Ukrainian citizens, and they must understand that after the storm the cleansing will come, and we will understand - the people of Ukraine will be dealt with - with by those who have tried to form a civil war, introduce blue helmets and put Ukraine on the verge of falling apart. I therefore demand that President Yushchenko immediately do what he has to do under the Constitution - to propose a referendum on joining NATO and only after that can we talk about the early elections of the President and the elections of the Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u18	The word Chechtov is passed on by the netzka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u19	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! During his activities, Mr. Yushchenko issued dozens of decrees, but the question arises: why did such a social resonance call the last decree, why he polarized society, contrasted the east with the west and practically put the country on the brink of disaster? The answer is only one, since this decree is issued outside the legal constitutional field. I am deeply convinced that I have spoken about this and I repeat that Ukraine will never have a normal democratic perspective for its development if the President reads the Constitution, not as it is written, but as he wishes or wishes for its supporters. I am deeply convinced that we will never build a free democratic Ukraine that thrives Ukraine if a decision is taken by the President, not in the constitutional field, but only out of the principles of revolutionary or political expediency. As it is said, “let him see the eyes that have eyes, and let him hear the ears that have ears!” Article 19 of the Constitution, which has already been mentioned, clearly states that “State authorities and local authorities, their officials, including the President, are obliged to act solely on the basis, within the powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine”. Period! And it is clearly stated in the ninety-ninth article, and if the President suddenly wishes to dissolve Parliament or adopt a decree on parliamentary early powers, on the composition of parliamentary powers, clearly three paragraphs have been written, three reasons. None of them are the basis of the decree. You'll think about what would happen in the United States -- in a state with a presidential form of government -- if Mr. Bush would say, you know, ten Democrats went to the Republicans, ten Republicans went to the Democrats, that's wrong, I'm going to disband Congress. But at best it would just make me laugh! What does the President have to do with the formation of factions?Oh, my God! He doesn't have any other public affairs?Oh, my God! Is there anything more to do in this country? I want to address the President of the country. Victor Andreevich, you're here today. Today, in your hands, the key to the unity of the country and the consolidation of society, peace and harmony, suspend the operation of your evil order. Let us await the decision of the Constitutional Court. Let the three leaders of the State, the President, the Head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister, sit at the negotiating table, and let a solution be found at the round table, not for the benefit of individual political forces, but for the benefit of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people. If the Constitutional Court confirms the validity of the order, then it is possible to agree with the President and to carry out the full cleansing of all power, and it is necessary to announce the simultaneous election of the President, Parliament and hold a referendum on NATO at the same time. After all, four and a half signatures were collected, some of them were denied by the CTC, but more than four million were with the President. And the President must do the will of the people who are the source.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u20	Let me finish. But you keep your voice down, because that's probably the way it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u21	You will think of what would have happened to the President of the United States if the President had grossly ignored the views of the American people if signatures had been collected in accordance with the law to hold a referendum. Tomorrow would no longer be this President, he would be the new democratic President of the United States of America. The question is: what is NATO doing here, why should we hold a referendum on NATO? I'll answer. Well, the first is to do the will of the people, and, on the other hand, in the case of simultaneous presidential and parliamentary elections, when a new power comes to pass, so that it does not begin its work, to see what foreign and political course, to join NATO, does not enter, must begin with what has clearly done the people's will towards NATO, as expressed in the referendum, and has addressed the main challenges: to achieve economic growth, to raise social standards in people's lives. And in detention, I would like to address the Minister of Defence, who is in charge of the Ukrainian Security Service. Gentlemen, remember, you serve not the President, not the Parliament, not the Government, you serve the State and the Ukrainian people. God will keep you safe, take your stand against his people, and drag your subordinate structures into carrying out dirty political orders. You're cursed in that world too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u22	Once again, I'll continue to give you my word, we've got 10 more minutes. I announced Ephraim. Instead of Ephraim will be Chechetov, excuse me, Boldirev to speak, recorded. Please, this is the last part of the gap.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u23	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. On April 4, this year, I witnessed the next scene. I was standing, talking to foreign journalists, and at that time one of them got a phone call. The man who spoke to him spoke only two English and Polish languages. This person organized a press conference with foreign journalists by our President Victor Yushchenk. This person was presented as an official member of the Press Service of the President's secretariat. I mean, in my view, it means that rumours that the Presidential Administration is filled with foreign advisers, who represent some of the special services, have very real grounds. We have heard from previous speakers that our own security services, the HSS and the General Intelligence Directorate are training, preparing their people for force action. And as we know, another 6 members of President Yushchenko's coalition meeting had already formulated his programme, he said that the street would judge us. What colleague Koleschenko has said about the fact that the President has not yet appointed a referendum on our entry into NATO also demonstrates that the scenario for the recruitment of foreign troops into our territory is in fact being implemented. Unfortunately, I can't help but touch this, I'd say, medical topic. In the last days, we know, spring, spring, the sharper, in the last days here, under the Supreme Council, there is a man who seems neither much nor little to Jesus Christ. He asked me to take him to Lavra, introduce him to the Metropolitan Blessed One. And he assured me that if I brought him to Lavrah, the Most Blessed would recognize him, he would literally say, "He recognizes me." I'm afraid the story we're seeing with President Yushchenko is roughly the same. In the spring, his old disease worsened. You remember how he acted during the orange revolution, you remember how he made an impression on a not-so-healthy person. I don't think it's an accident. I think that the damage to health that he suffered during the time of poisoning — whether it is or not — we do not know, unfortunately, that this issue has never been investigated, has led to his mental health apparently becoming abnormal. And his environment, using it, and knowing that he's going to have to be responsible for economic crimes, and we've already heard with you that more than two billion have been stolen or illegally acquired.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u24	Finish it. Only 20 seconds, no more, because you're not a doctor, you're a politician.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u25	Okay, yeah. So, with a structure such as Petroz, 752 million is illegally used in the Ministry of Defence, more than 100 million people are in the Ministry of Defence. illegally used. All these people are pushing the President towards a violent development in order to cover his sins. I believe that it is time for us to return, first, to the question of the establishment of an investigative commission for its poisoning and, secondly, to remember 110 articles of the Constitution, which says, in which cases the current powers of the President may cease, I refer to the state of his health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, you were able to exchange thoughts on the situation. I realize that the focus on the source of this disruption is natural, but I would like us to refrain from expressing ourselves within the limits of correctness and political culture, because even if we analyze completely unintelligible things, statements, justifications, and so on, it can be explained by many circumstances, but not by those that sometimes refer to here on the stand of MPs. I would ask, we should show an example of restraint, of correctness for society as a whole. For example, the former judge of the Constitutional Court, who now serves as a adviser to President Vladimir Shapoval, often speaks. That everything that is done in accordance with the President's decree is legal, normal, and must be, and even constitutional. I see he has not so long published a good book – “Contemporary Constitutionalism”. I want to quote here one phrase that would obviously be useful to the author himself, because he obviously forgot what he was writing. It says here: “It is remarkable that the constitutional recognition of the President of Ukraine as a guarantor is sometimes tried as a witness to his position in the state mechanism of posture or even over the distributed authorities. According to the author of this book, the corresponding provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine contain some of the functions of the President of Ukraine, who essentially generalize his constitutionally defined powers. For example, the function of the President of Ukraine to guarantee compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine reflects his mandate to refer to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to determine the constitutionality of the definition of legal acts to return laws to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for reconsideration and some others. It is also important that the analysis of the Constitution of Ukraine does not give rise to the claim that there is an arbitral, harmonious or balanced function of the President of Ukraine, since none of its powers testify to such a function. It is remarkable that the President's arbitration in indirect form was the subject of an official draft of the Constitution on February 24, 96: “The President of Ukraine promotes reconciliation in the activities of public authorities and interaction with local self-government authorities”. [[in quotes]] These are the documents we have. But when the project was completed in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the cited position was deleted. I think this argument is pretty convincing, it's based on the documents that were going through the session, through the text of the Constitution, and that's the only way that they can be applied, not the way that anyone would want to be in a political moment under some kind of conjuncture. I'd like to say that we've been guided by it, too, and we've acted accordingly. As far as citizens are concerned, these statements are now being made. Look, almost half of Parliament doesn't work anymore, whether it's right or wrong or a legitimate parliament. Parliament is perfectly legitimate. And to those who are not present at his meetings, I would like to address them as such. It's your business, you don't want to work -- whatever you want. Make it your job and make it possible for people to work. And you don't have to spin around the world, talk about your special reasons there, no one has prevented you from fulfilling your duties as a deputy. I think that's what we're going to be guided by, and now I'd like to look at essentially the issues that we've included in the order of the day and on which we have to speak. The first is the draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for pressure from President Yushchenk to the Constitutional Court. Ivan Sidorovich, please. The author of the draft decision is Boki Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u27	Dear colleagues, before reading the text of the statement, I would like to say that we are heard, seen, heard only by the viewers of the “Work”. Unfortunately, the National Broadcasting Radio Company doesn't run. I think it's already repeating the Bushman version when the Supreme Council broadcast was stopped. And now the text of the draft stated to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on President Yushchenk's pressure towards the Constitutional Court: “The Constitutional Court took the lead in the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the unconstitutionality of the Presidential Decree of Ukraine of 2 April 2007 on the termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth call.” In violation of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, President Viktor Yushchenko exerts unprecedented pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court. During the week, he met with them, concerned that the Constitutional Court had begun to promptly review the submission of Parliament with regard to its decree of April 2. Instead of allowing the high court to exercise impartiality, on the basis of the Constitution, the President is relentlessly putting pressure on him in the face of the entire society. And this is at a time when the other side of the political process -- the Supreme Council -- strictly adheres to the legality and non-interference of the trial. The President's pressure on the Constitutional Court is seen as one of the factors behind any means of legitimizing the anti-State rebellion by the reaction forces. In connection with this unfolding of events, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reserves the right to resort to the services of international mediators to international organisations, the State-guarantee states of the sovereignty of Ukraine, to promote a settlement of the political situation in our country.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u28	Thank you. Are there any questions? Wait a minute. Write down who wants to ask. Try to use this time in a concise way. In the meantime, Baranowski asks questions as the recording goes. He raised his hand first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u29	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear John Sidorovich, please tell me from the statement of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council reserves the right to seek the services of international mediators, to appeal to international organizations, or we will record that the Supreme Council is already addressing, not for itself, but for what we are addressing. I'd like to make it clear that maybe I'm misunderstanding this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u30	Alexander Petrovich, the question of recourse to international guaranteeing organizations will be dealt with separately. And this is the object of another address that will be, I think, accepted in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u31	That is, the right remains with the Supreme Council. The garden question asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u32	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I think we'll do the right thing if we take that approach. People need to know what's going on in our parliament. People need to know how they appreciate the national MPs' problems that have arisen in our country and what actions are being done not only by the President but also by his immediate surroundings. Today, we've heard from colleagues that, as the Security Service, how the Ministry of Defense in this case works and works in a way that doesn't make things simpler, it's more complicated. So the faction of the Socialists supports and will vote in favour, and let's vote on that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u33	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u34	Michaela Illich, tell me nothing, because you actually said what I had to tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear John Sidorovich, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will certainly support the claim because it is unacceptable. And we said in the Constitution that our country is a democratic country and it's not the democratic methods that President Yushchenko is using. As for the fact that he is concerned, perhaps the President and Shapoval do not know the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court, which provides for a reduction in the time limit for the proceedings in exceptional cases. Maybe we should remind them of that, and now we really agree that these are special cases. Tell me, Ivan Sidorovich, or we can write before the last thesis “about the anti-State rebellion that the reaction forces are carrying out in search of a rematch,” or do you think that it is enough to finish that thought with words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u36	Dear Catherine Seminal, I think that's enough. Although I definitely won't deny it, if we give it and we give it, it's just going to be a build-up, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u37	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u38	Bondarchuk, faction of socialists. In fact, Alexander Petrovich Baraniovski gave me an offer to change the text of the statement. I'd like to get to the vote right now because we've already learned that we have a right as a girl, because both Davidovich and Shapoval and others can interpret how they want it, and in general, our President is talking not about the letter of the law, but about the spirit, and I can't even begin to see what the spirit of the law and the Constitution is, so let's vote for this text of the statement and we'll keep working.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u39	Ivan Mikolaiovich, I want to answer that. We don't have the right to be a girl. We have the right to be a girl. We have the right to be a girl. And you know who that girl is. That's the girl who got her hands on high heels.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u40	I beg you, let's not say a word about women. Not a word about women, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u41	We're not talking about women.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u42	Yes, just a minute. The last question is Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u43	Dear John Sidorovich! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please tell me, right now, the president is calling for an extra election, and he's talking about how it might be better to reflect the voter opinion. And in the context of our statement and the appeal to the Ukrainian people, won't this election be an incentive to the contradictions that were natural during the 2004 and 6 elections? Since each political party will use those identifying signs, it will be necessary to use them. The same process of joining NATO, the same language issues, issues related to the distribution of powers. And is it not conscious of the President’s motivation to split Ukraine? Should we not reflect this in our speech? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u44	Dear Yuri Romanovich, I think you're right at many times. Only I think that in this document we just probably shouldn't put this thesis. It may be more appropriate to turn to the Ukrainian people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u45	Thank you. Have a seat. Dear colleagues, MPs! Jurists have made a legal edition of what Eugene Sidorovich has proposed. But since the wording here is related to the turnover and so forth, the turns and so forth are changing, I'll read it and then we'll make a decision together. So a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the pressure of President Yushchenko to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Constitutional Court of Ukraine took the lead in the submission of fifty - three Ukrainian national deputies to verify the constitutionality of the President’s decree of April 2, 7th, to terminate the term of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth invocation. Ignoring the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, is exerting unprecedented pressure on judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Following a violation by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of the conduct of this case, the President of Ukraine, contrary to part two of article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prohibits the influence of judges in any way, disregarding the constitutional status of the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, holds public meetings with the judges of this court, shamelessly imposing on them his views on the constitutionality of the actions of the President of Ukraine in the issuance of the decree on the permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council. All of this is happening at a time when the other side of the political process – the Supreme Council of Ukraine – strictly adheres to the rule of law in its activities, respecting the independence and impartiality of the judges guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The pressure from the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, sees it as one of the factors in legitimizing the unconstitutional actions of the President of Ukraine and the political forces that pushed him to do so. In view of this development, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reserves the right to seek the assistance of international mediators, international organisations, guaranteeing countries of Ukraine's sovereign sovereignty in resolving the political situation in our country on the basis of the principles of democratic society that are widely known throughout the world.” So here are all the comments and suggestions and MPs, and the content of the text with which the author printed the statement is preserved. If you have no objection, I vote in favour of accepting this document. Based on the base. [[13:02:00]] For 256 As a basis, it's been accepted. There were observations. You're not the kind of text to look at where the two of you were. It may be the right thing to do, but it's not the right thing to do. So let's be like I've read it now, the already corrected text. In general, can we vote? I'm betting on the vote in general and resolution 3454. [[13:02:37]] For 256 That is, Decree 3454 is adopted by 256 votes in favour of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's statement on the President's pressure against the Constitutional Court. Yes, thank you. Draft Decision on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian people. Ivan Sidorovich, please. Be careful.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u46	In the process of working on the text of this reference, there was, as they say here, an appropriate work with both the Head of the Supreme Council and with the lawyers, and here is the final text, which I think is already given to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u47	It's handed over to the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u48	Surrendered. To the Ukrainian people, the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. “Dear compatriots! On these Easter days, we call upon each of you with great concern: Ukraine is in danger of civil strife and loss of statehood. The reason for this is to try to bring about a coup d'état in the form of a permanent cessation of parliamentary powers. Awefully aware that there is no basis for the issuance of a well - known decree by the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko tries to blackmail the Constitutional and other courts, to stop the work of Parliament, and to oblige the government to take illegal steps. Anti-constitutional, illegal actions are enforced by the Security and Military Service, followed by MPs, members of the government, the CTC, the judges of the Constitutional Court. Provoking actions of civil disobedience are directed directly at headquarters with the head of the Ukraine’s Secretariat. There's an open fight for power. This is an attempt to rekindle the political forces that do not have enough support among the electorates, that during their absolute rule in the Cabinet of Ministers and all the chains of executive power proved their failure. They were able to squander huge amounts of money from privatization, to bankrupt the transit and gas system, to enter astronomical debt before the borders, to raise prices for meat, sugar, gasoline and other goods, to provoke their adventures to increase tariffs and prices and prices for utilities. The efforts of Parliament and the government to strengthen the economy and the financial system are being targeted. Adventurers understand that the progressive improvement in the well - being of people, which is a major task and practical result for the parliamentary coalition and government, leaves them no prospect. That's why they speculate on the subject of language, the churches, the assemblies, by setting up a false monopoly on patriotism, even though they realize that it does not exist, that the affairs of Ukraine are no less devoted to their opponents. The difference is that some people are voting about their love for Ukraine, others are confirming it by their daily work. We turn to those who are involved in street anti-constitutional actions: You're not fighting for Ukraine, and you're not fighting for the truth. With your hands, a few adventurers want to regain the ability to usurp power to re-plant relatives, godparents and weddings, even stronger to settle the gas pipe, to continue damaging to the state, and to experiment with the militia and the Armed Forces personally, to master the tax evasion system. This concerns not only us, but also the democratic circle of Parliament and the government of European and other countries of the world. We are not opposed to the early elections, we are against the illegal elections, we are against the creation of a precedent that will lead Ukraine to the state of the recent Yugoslavia. This seems to be the goal of the Ukrainian president's environment and his foreign mentors. We're against civil conflict. We warn of the responsibility of President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine and of all those involved in the organization of conflicts for their consequences. We are at the same time in the presidential, parliamentary and popular elections to join NATO. Enough to speculate on things that are clear, enough to claim the right to absolute truth! We appeal to officials of all levels to be guided by article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which warns: “No one can be forced to do what is not provided for by legislation.” We urge all of you who want to live in a wealthy democratic country to have guarantees for work, wages, pensions, scholarships, to have guarantees for treatment and a peaceful life, to support the actions of parliament and government based on your choice. Protect the Constitution and human rights! For the constitutional order and unity of Ukraine!"
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u49	Is there a question for John Sidorovich? Questions? Please sign up. Seven men. 10 minutes for questions, answers. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u50	Ivan Sidorovich! Miroshenko Yuri, faction of the Party of the Regions. So I'd like to say, completely dividing the meaning of the reference to the Ukrainian people, I'd just like to draw attention to two paragraphs. In one, we say that we are not against early elections, and we are at the same time in the election of the President, the Parliament and the holding of the referendum. Maybe we would say that we only see the presidential election together, the President, the Parliament and the referendum. Because legal elections are not legitimate. It's not. What's more, we're in position when we seem to be supporting the early elections. We can't support them, because it's going to be joining the violators of the Constitution. And here, I think it's possible for a presidential election, but along with the parliamentary elections, there's the President, and there's a NATO referendum. Don't let us get in here either.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u51	Yuri Romanovich, you have to pay attention because I'm holding this text under my hand. There's a couple of lines above, we don't mind the early elections, it's about the fact that we have a new law. The law is done. It goes on to say that we're against illegal, simple, timely elections. Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u52	Dear Yuri Romanovich, I think that your words are right, and I think that the next paragraph -- we are in the presidential and parliamentary elections for the same term -- obviously need to be edited so that there is no ambiguity. I think it's a normal, smart offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u53	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u54	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Ivan Sidorovich, I support the entire text of the address to the Ukrainian people, but I would like us to call things by our names. Well, we write here "to continue the experiments of the militia and the armed forces." What experiments? When 750 commercial structures were created by the previous minister, it was concluded that the ministry had been looted. The same is experimentation in the Armed Forces. This is an open robbery when the material bases of the military forces were looted, when the lands where the land was located were at no cost. Where do you not look, in which area do you not look, where is the property? Where is this land? What does the army have to do with this? Let's call it that. It's true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u55	I mean, I get it like that, Vasil Stepanovich, you're proposing that it be indicated here: continuing the spending, the non-productive use of the budget, and so on, in that sense, yes?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u56	Right. Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u57	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. We're addressing the Ukrainian people that we're talking about right now, and I'd like us to put more emphasis on this talk about young people and our students. During these two days, I have been able to meet many students from various universities in Kiev and Zitomir. I would like to thank the students in this room today for their position, which, when they met, they openly said that they did not support the President's actions on the dissolution of Parliament and that their sympathy today on the side of the coalition, on the side of the working Supreme Council. I'd like to thank them for that today. And do you not think that this should be a separate appeal to students and young Ukrainians? Or, for example, should the application be strengthened? And secondly, the Russian State has made enough, I would say, hard decisions about the events that are taking place -- anti-constitutional action in Ukraine. Doesn't this mean that if we don't enter the constitutional field, more faithfully, the President, that our energy prices are going to be European, 240 times European.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u58	Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u59	Dear Alexander Petrovich, I don't think it's going to be difficult, it's not going to be difficult, it's not going to be difficult, it's going to be possible to go to certain categories of our population in the final editing of this text, because the people are also veterans, the people are working, and the students and the young. I don't think there's gonna be a problem here. It's not going to grow, it's going to be just as compact and lapidar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u60	Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u61	I would like to give the floor to my colleague Bronnnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u62	Please, Vladimir Costinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u63	Ivan Sidorovich, a beautiful address. But this is about the third paragraph. Fighting for power is natural for parties. And we are seeing an attempt to usurp power that is neither based on the Constitution nor on the law, and that must be rightly said. Then you say there's an attempt to usurp power, and there's a struggle for power. They're us, and you're clinging to power. It is therefore necessary to say uniqueness: power, the usurpation of power, where the Constitution and the law are not written. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u64	Thank you for the fine addition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u65	Savocin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u66	Dear John Sidorovich. I think we should probably go back to the Peacekeeper's proposals and the early elections, the early elections. And second of all. Since we have representatives of the media and representatives of the fourth government, they are probably representatives of the people, so I think we should probably go to them. Because it's very often when you see TV screens, how they shave over the Supreme Council, where a bunch of people come together and make decisions, they still make decisions. I think it's safe to turn to them, to their conscience, to their civic courage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u67	Thank you, Gennady Anatolyovich. But I think here in the part that I actually turned to in the part where we go to all the representatives of the people. I think we have specific representatives of the second ancient profession here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u68	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u69	Thank you. You know, we're already on the front page here, the last paragraph we're talking about, really, so softly, that a few adventurers, and that's very right, political adventurers, I want to get the opportunity to usurp power. First of all, it's not an option, but it needs to be said more clearly, and then it needs to be addressed with a third paragraph as a proposal already made. But when it comes to usurpation, we just have to tell people that it's about usurpation. This should humiliate the entire document. And I want to support my colleague, Baranowski, here's the question. Not only do we need to address the student youth of ours, but we also need to address the women whose sons are serving in the army, the term service is being served, we really need to make that appeal around the Supreme Council, and around the coalition, the whole nation is being gathered together to fight for legitimacy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u70	Catherine Seminal, as they say, is telling the truth with your mouth, and, I think we've already talked about the fact that this appeal will not grow if we consider addressing different categories.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u71	Yes, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u72	Ivan Sidorovich, I have two suggestions. Paragraph, which begins with the words “to those who are involved in street action”. There is a phrase: “to replant relatives, besties, weddings on the breadboards.” For you and me, parliamentarians, these are high-ranking positions, and they are really trying to put your parents in position. Therefore, I propose that they write here: “to appoint again incompetent and accountable people in high government positions, and to plant relatives and so on.” That is, in order to see clearly the contradiction between the strengths of these people and the positions on which they are put. Once again, I support Miroshnichenko's proposal from the paragraph, further, to remove the words “we are not against the early elections”. This is a proposal to remove, and in the next, to specify, we are against unlawfully appointed early elections. This will be clear and understandable so that the proposal will not be torn out of context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u73	Thank you, too. I think it's a normal offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u74	He's a boy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u75	Fellow MPs, our fellow listeners, after all, no one listens to us because they say there is no broadcast.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u76	Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u77	I'm very concerned about this decree today because it's springtime in the yard. Spring, as you can see, is very heavy, long, cold. We need to focus on sowing, getting friendly staircases, getting good harvests, because it is the safety of our people. Sadly, though, no one wants to talk about it today. Everyone was involved in pitches, rallyings, and assemblies. I ask the President to stabilize the situation in the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u78	Dear Omelane Nikonovich, I share your concern, but I also have information from places that the situation on the bread field is very difficult and unpredicted. But you know very well that our President can never be approached with these things, he was never interested, he was never concerned. And we're talking to people, not just one Yushchenk. I think that we need more here, maybe to point out somewhere, that every person, wherever they live, in the city or in the village, today is responsible for the situation in the state at our level, with the deputies, and as a source of authority, the people have to say their word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u80	But basically, here, I think it's all okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u81	Please sit down. Actually, there was a discussion. In their proposals, the MPs made clarifications to the document. I think we should agree with them. I would like to vote first on the basis of the vote, and then some clarifications will be made and voted on in general. Who, in order to vote on this document, put it to the vote. Please identify yourself. [[13:20:19]] For 258. Decision taken. Now in relation to editorial remarks. The representative of Alexandrovsk expressed a contradiction between the reasoning in the last paragraph on the first page. I mean, to re-arrange, not professionals, but to continue to plant relatives behind the text, right? Okay. There's no objection. Wait a minute. Regarding the phrase “we are not against the timely elections, we are against the illegal elections”. I would like to point out that the early elections in the Constitution are provided for in the 90th article. We are not against such elections, but we are against illegal elections. And that's exactly the contradiction that needs to be mentioned here. Because many want to comment that the members of the Supreme Council of the Coalition are afraid of elections. No one is afraid, just do not create the precedent set out in the preceding paragraph as to the hints of the former Yugoslavia’s experience. Finally, what Yuri Miroshnichenko was paying attention to. As you can see, if you write this paragraph in these words, I refer to his reasoning: “if there are no other means to resolve an artificial conflict, then we will insist on the simultaneous election of the President, the Parliament and the holding.” Can I talk to you like that? Yes, there is no objection. Ivan Mikolaiovich, is there anything else you'd like to say? I thought I couldn't go any deeper. Bondarchuku, give me your word. No, no, I give you my word, please. Just sit down because it's not involved because you're standing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u82	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I still believe that in this document, because he's addressed to the Ukrainian people, he must find the moment that I've already begun to talk about, the spirit of this very one, because the President in his recent speeches only inspires the spirit. So we have to say somewhere that the spirit is not a legal category, that the spirit is an individual perception, because maybe it's an expression that's a scent, but it's a miasm for me. So somewhere we have to say that spirit is not what we can be guided.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u83	Ivan Mikolaiovich, you're going to write about miasms, then you have to explain what it is. So I'd like to ask, I think you've expressed your opinion, and that's what the citizens of Ukraine have heard. And I'm telling Omelyan Nikonovich that the broadcast is coming, at the beginning, the Ukrainian radio couldn't adjust its schedule, and the recording is going to give everything that's going on right now, and we're going to have a conversation. And there's a live broadcast coming up. So that's enough of what you said, because back in the past, when Parliament was convened, when it was discussed on this subject, I was sitting in the hall, and I said, "The Constitution doesn't have to be enforced, followed, followed by the Constitution, then there will be order in the state." In this regard, I would like to vote with these remarks, which we have agreed, on the text of the statement. But to avoid a deviation from our procedure, it is about voting on the Supreme Council's decree to appeal to the Supreme Council of the Ukrainian people. With that text that we agreed on, I put it to a vote. [[13:24:15.]] For 258. Decision taken. Now the draft Decision on the establishment of the Provisional Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service, responsible for the issuance of illegal orders on the organisation and conduct of telephone calls and monitoring of Ukrainian national deputies, judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, courts of general jurisdiction and members of the Central Electoral Commission. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Huh?Oh, my God! Yuri Miroshnichenko, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u84	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. During our discussion this morning, you have heard of this. that violent acts are being committed involving persecution and the judges of the Constitutional Court, telephone hearings, monitoring of factional leaders, and judges of general jurisdiction. We remember the events that took place at the Cave Court in Kiev, and the Supreme Council accordingly has information that this is taking place, including with the participation of high officials from the Ukrainian Security Service. Accordingly, our colleague, Mr. Chechtchev, introduced a draft decree to create a temporary commission of inquiry to investigate these facts as quickly as possible and to report to the Supreme Council. I read the text of this decree: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decree to set up a temporary investigation commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the establishment of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service, guilty of issuing illegal orders for the organization and reporting of telephone calls and monitoring of Ukrainian national deputies, judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, judges of general jurisdiction and members of the Central Electoral Commission. In order to determine the basis for the organization, preparation and conduct of illegal operational measures, namely: listening to telephone calls, monitoring and so on to the national deputies of Ukraine and to the judges of the Constitutional Court, the judges of general jurisdiction, as well as members of the Central Electoral Commission in accordance with article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 82 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Regulations, the Supreme Council of Ukraine shall decide: First. Establish a temporary commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the establishment of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service responsible for issuing illegal orders; [[Next - Temporary Investigation Commission]] The other one. Instruct the interim commission of inquiry, within the framework of parliamentary control, to investigate the appeals of Ukrainian national deputies, the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as well as the general courts and the members of the Central Electoral Commission on illegal operational arrangements: telephone conversations, monitoring, etc. Contact the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for illegal operational action against Ukrainian national deputies, other officials and officials. Contact law-abiding international and public organizations for illegal activities of officials of the Ukrainian Security Service. Third. Head of the Temporary Investigative Commission to appoint the National Deputy of Ukraine, Samylenka Yuri Pavlovich. Four. Select Deputy Head of the Temporary Investigation Commission of the Ukrainian National Deputy Tkachenka Aleksandra Mikolaiovich. Fifth. To determine that the number of members of the Interim Investigation Commission is 15 national deputies of Ukraine, leaving this representation: one representative of 30 national deputies of Ukraine, but not less than one national deputy of Ukraine from each parliamentary faction. Six. Select as part of the interim commission of inquiry such national deputies of Ukraine: Samofalova Hennady Grigorovich, Gritsak Vasil Mikolaiovich, Kalashnikov Oleg Ivanovich, Demchisen Vasil Vasil Vasilovich, Skubashewski Stanislav Valeriyovich, Zibenka Petra Stepanovich, Zubko Jurija Grigorovich, Tolstenka Vladimir Leonidovich. [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[the faction of the Party of the Regions]] [[faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine]] [[faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine]] [[nonfractional]] There are also three seats reserved for representatives of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and two seats for representatives of the "Our Ukraine" Block. Seven. Material, technical, personnel, information and organizational support for the work of the Interim Investigation Commission to be placed on the apparatus of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Eight. Define the term of activity of the Interim Investigation Commission - six months from the date of adoption of this decision. Nine. A report by the Interim Investigation Commission on the work accomplished shall be heard not later than 10 days after the date of the adoption of this decision. Ten. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. Dear colleagues, this decision will be an adequate response of the Supreme Council within the limits of its powers as defined by the Constitution, the laws and thus we will not interfere with the Ukrainian Security Service, but at the same time we will ensure our parliamentary control over violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. I ask you all to support this decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u85	Do you have a question? Please sign up for the questions. Please, six minutes. Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u86	I support this proposal, and I think we should make this decision today. I can recall that in the Kirovograd region there was also such a hearing of the Regional Committee of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, and unfortunately, the Kirovograd District Security Service conducted a proper investigation of this fact, but it was in the end that they made such a decision: due to the insignificance of the case to close the criminal case. So I have both this request and the wish, and at the same time the question that the committee should complete and work in agreement, do you think that there will be no threat to the work of our commission, which will provide the relevant documents or to the prosecution or elsewhere? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u87	Thank you for asking. I'm sure we'll react accordingly once this committee reports to our meeting. You've seen that not later than 10 days, it should give us information. Of course, such signals are, these signals seem convincing to us, but we are doing clearly the law and the Constitution: we have to go through the procedure. The facts are being established and we will require, not to ask, but to demand, including from the Attorney General's Office, that we respond immediately to the violation of the law, especially in the circumstances in which the Ukrainian Parliament is currently in office, when it is effectively deprived of its constitutional powers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u88	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u89	Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorievich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that such a decision is necessary today, and the faction of Communists will support it. But I think we need to make one point to this decision, Yuri Romanovich. I mean, according to the Supreme Council Committees Act and the Supreme Council Rules, the heads of the Supreme Council committees cannot be part of a temporary commission of inquiry. So we have a proposition in faction. Instead of Peter Stepanovich Zybenko, who is the head of the Committee on Veterans, Pensioners and Disabled Persons, we bring him into the commission of Oblaček Volodymir Mikolaiovich, a colleague of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u91	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. I absolutely support your assessment. And I think the Supreme Council will be determined by this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u92	But you just have to replace it right away so that sometimes the Supreme Council doesn't get it wrong, yeah. Samilik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u93	Let's get this straight.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u94	Thank you. It has already been said that the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this regulation, which has been prepared, meets the rules and is absolutely correct. I think we're a little late for this decision. And I think to myself, if we have high-ranking people who, according to Yulia Tymoshenko, have, you know, rights that are too big and so much, and there's pressure, and there's listening, and there's persecution on the dissidents, even if that Head of the Supreme Council, the deputy of the Head, the leader of the faction in Parliament, but still decided one person, and it does. And so, really, it's just what we need, and we're even doing a little bit late. We need to stop this creeping usurpation of power, we need to do everything we can to stop the orange team.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u95	Thank you, Catherine Seed, for your comment. I totally share it. Fewly, my attitude toward these events is clear, political. There's really a usurpation of power going on. We've also heard statements, including high-powered workers who are part of the force structure. We have information that illegal orders are being given to the leadership of the Armed Forces. We have information about the direction and direction of internal forces, the preparation of appropriate force measures, scenarios, and so forth. But at the same time, I would like to support the head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexander Moroz, when he speaks of what we, as the other side, should demonstrate, in every way, the conformity of our actions in the first place, the Constitution and the law. Because in order for us not to be accused of breaking the Constitution in the same way, we must go through all the procedures. We create a commission, we listen to this commission properly, and we make a certain reaction. That's why I'm calling.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u96	Pomorenko, then Silchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u97	Yuri Romanovich, well, according to the committee, you can see that all specialists are qualified, and I think maybe ten days is a lot, for the first time, they can tie someone up. On this Sunday, I think it might be the first thing for the committee to hear on Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u98	I mean, six days from now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u99	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u100	Five days later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u101	Thank you. You know, I'd like to propose an editorial that says, "in ten days, but if necessary, before."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u102	Maybe so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u103	Now. As we decided on the meetings of the plenary of the Supreme Council. I think that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u104	Silchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u105	Not later than ten days.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u106	Please pass the word to Michael Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u107	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u108	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'd like another moment in the commission's work plan. For example, today, all who have failed jobs, such as the heads of the U.S.M.S., the heads of the Paradise Department, are now employed by the Ukrainian Security Service. An example of this may be Bukovina, where Mr. Vasilov, a general who has failed the work of law enforcement authorities in the Chernobyl area today is appointed the first deputy chief of security in the Montenegrin region. And one more thing. In my view, paragraph 9 of the rulings should provide for the word “previous report of the commission”, the previous one, not a report. Because if the commission reports, it will probably stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u109	Thank you. Thank you for your observation. I support you completely. Again, this ninth paragraph “not later than ten days”, “previous report”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u110	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u111	But at the same time, I would like to say that it would be possible to add to this decision and to appeal to all the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service units to remind them of their personal responsibility, in accordance with article 60 of the Constitution for anti-constitutional, illegal acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u112	Thank you. Please sit down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u113	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u114	A draft decision can be voted on as a basis. On the basis of that, I put it to a vote. [[13:39:24]] For 256 Based on the project, it was accepted. The MPs came up with proposals to complete the project. I'm not going to read it myself. Please don't make me repeat your words. Packet.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u115	Deputies! We know what was in Pechersky's court. Thus, in the first paragraph of our decision, I propose to add after the words “in issuing illegal orders and carrying out illegal acts” or “in doing illegal acts”. This is significant because both Galatia and Moscal have acted without giving orders. People should be responsible for their actions. I'd like to add that to the ruling.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u116	I mean, everyone got the point, didn't they? It's going to be settled, it's going to be done. Please, Samuelnka. As a head, he is recommended for headship.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u117	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. The composition of the commission is all qualified professionals and so on. But I do have a proposal to complement the members of our National Security and Defence Committee's committee members: Mitrochin, former security officer, Gnatenko, Bulba, Antipov, Antipov, just from the former faction of Block Timoshenko, that's why. And plus Illashov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u118	Thank you. Thank you. Wait, we're violating the proportional principle of forming a commission, we can't do that. Therefore, as a commission, you can add to your work whom you consider necessary, including the entire composition of a committee that should be responsible for overseeing the activities of the security service. Please, Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u119	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I think it's necessary here to create a commission of this, here we've determined, we've made a reference to 89 articles of the Constitution and 82 of the Rules. I would consider it possible and necessary to supplement the second article of the Law on Democratic and Civil Control of Military Organizations and Law Enforcement Authorities. Listen, then, to what is said in this article. Control must ensure political stability in society, create conditions that make it impossible to use the Ukrainian Armed Forces and other military formations, law enforcement agencies to limit citizens' rights and freedoms or to bring down the constitutional system, remove or impede their activities, as well as in the interests of individuals, political parties and public organisations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u120	Thank you. Stepan Stepanovich, that's all right. But the Constitution also covers this need. So please, I'd like to ask you, given the discussion we've had, to accept this document definitively. Is there no objection? I'll bet you a vote, please. [[13:43:22]] For 255 Decision taken. The issue, registration number 3457, is being considered, the draft decree on the referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Heads of State and Parliament of the European countries, except for the security countries of Ukraine, the inter-State and inter-parliamentary institutions. Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u121	Dear fellow national MPs! You're given the text of the decree, the draft Decree number 3457, and the text itself, it's short. For those of you who listen to us, I'll speak. "The Heads of State, Government and Parliament of the countries of Europe, Ukraine's security-guarantee countries, international and inter-parliamentary organisations. Highly worthy ladies and gentlemen! The Supreme Council of Ukraine is forced to disturb you in connection with the unprecedented attempt by President Yushchenk to dissolve the constitutionally established one on the basis of the most democratic parliamentary elections recognized by the world. On 2 April of this year, Yushchenko signed the Decree “On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” and on the de facto immediate prohibition of the functioning of Parliament, without any legal basis, in violation of fundamental norms of constitutionality, law and democracy, thus provoking civil conflict. Because of its environment and the political circles on which it relies, the President of Ukraine intervenes in the activities of the legislators, he exerts pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court and other judges, since there is no way in which he can defend his anticonstitutional decree. The attempt to produce an artificially provoked conflict as a type of political struggle or the application of the European practice of early elections is countered by countless examples of ignoring the Constitution and laws, ignoring human rights and freedoms. The President of Ukraine deliberately and openly went beyond the Constitution of Ukraine. Given the danger of this development for Ukrainian society, which threatens to preserve the country's sovereignty and integrity, and then regional stability, we ask you to take measures that meet the universal democratic values and principles and norms of international law. In particular, we ask that the official representatives of their countries be sent to Ukraine as mediators and observers for developments. The Supreme Council of Ukraine assures you of its respect for and commitment to the Constitution of Ukraine and our international commitment.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u122	Thank you. Can the draft regulation 3457 and the text of this statement be voted on as a basis? Then I put the vote on the ground. [[13:46:33]] For 256 As a basis, it's been accepted. 258, I made a mistake, 258. Please, any additions, clarifications? Evening.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u123	Dear colleagues, the decision must be made because it is relevant to all the Ukrainian people. But I have an addition because it's about integration processes. I would therefore like to add in the last paragraph: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine assures you of its respect for and commitment to the Constitution of Ukraine and other international obligations and the invariance of European integration choices.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u124	The point is that this is confirmed in the previous text, please look. It's all there. Samofalov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u125	Adam Ivanovich, Adam Ivanovich, was originally called Yushchenko. We have to go everywhere. It's probably the right thing to do to add President Yushchenko, a clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u126	Well, here in the first sentence is "the unprecedented attempt of President Yushchenk". “On April 2, Yushchenko signed the Order”, i.e. I think it is right here in five words. Five words says that again. We can tell the President again, he doesn't have it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-09-m0.u127	Gennady, it's all there. It's all there. So you can put it to a vote in general. I'm betting on the vote as a whole. Please. [[13:48:40]] For 257 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, MPs! Questions raised for today’s meeting have been considered. I'm making an announcement. There will be a meeting of the Conciliation Council tomorrow at nine o'clock. And then we're going to be guided by the decree we made last week, about plenary meetings when there's a need. The Conciliation Council will decide on a number of draft draft bills and on intervention in a given situation. I'm asking you to work actively on committees and factions now, according to the plans you have. At this morning's meeting. At this morning’s meeting, I declare it closed.
