ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs. I'm asking you to register. Please enable the login system. [[10:01:16]] Registered -294 There are 294 national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Ladies and gentlemen, without your permission, I'd like to begin with a few very important messages. The first is that, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 64 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I, as Head of the Supreme Council, have been sent to the President of Ukraine for his appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymirina. [[Applause]] Second, distinguished national MPs, on the eve of Local Self-Government Day, I'd like some basic thesis on local self-governance with your permission. Yesterday, the president of Ukraine held a meeting, and I attended a meeting of the governing body and the heads of the local government. I would like to point out that we owe very much to local self - government, not in declarations or in promises. Because much has been promised and declared, starting with the decentralization of government and ending with the provision of financial resources to carry out its functions as local self - government authorities. Therefore, the order of the day’s work together should be to provide for those declarative goals that have already been announced by the previous five calls of the Supreme Council. In view of this, I think it would be advisable for us, after the beginning of the normal beginning of the work of the Supreme Council, to call an appropriate round table, to hear and support the initiatives of local self-government authorities and to make proposals, starting with legislation that regulates the activities of local governments and ending with key financial documents and the allocation of financial resources, which is the State Budget Act. Third, and a very important message from your permission. We just finished the Conciliation Council meeting. A few questions have been discussed and I think we should act exclusively within the framework of the Supreme Council Rules. In view of this article 16 of the Supreme Council’s Rules, there is a comprehensive list of issues that we should now consider. To this day, we have not formed the governing bodies of the Supreme Council, except for the election of the Chief of the Supreme Council. So on the agenda, we have the first and important question -- this is the First Vice-Speaker or the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. And the second block of questions that concerns the selection of heads and deputies of heads and the formation of committees of the Supreme Council. In view of this, the next algorithm is proposed. I would like to point out once again, once again, to demonstrate the will of the Ukrainian people's deputies in part to ensure the right of opposition to be represented in all the governing bodies of the Supreme Council. However, I would like to point out the need for a negotiated decision to be taken before the Supreme Council. The point is that we should already vote in favour of a mutually acceptable decision that is agreed upon by the members of the Conciliation Council. There were a few suggestions made on this point, and I think the basic proposal might be in the next one, of course, just for your consideration. We need to sit down, conduct interfractional consultations and make a mutually acceptable decision in the shortest possible terms and put on the table every national MP a draft decree on the election of the First Vice-President of the Supreme Council and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, as well as a single document on the management of all the committees of the Supreme Council. I suggest we discuss this. For us to make such a decision, it is objectively necessary for us to take a break because the Committees of the Supreme Council are determined by the Supreme Council, and more specifically by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So we're going to have to make a decision in principle by voting in the room. In order to offer this option, let's do interfractional consultations and in the shortest possible terms, as you'll decide, we'll convene the next meeting of the Supreme Council in due course with acceptable decisions. What will be the proposals, honourable national deputies? I'm asking you to include it. Please sign up, faction leaders. Faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, Mr. Turkinov, please. An exit from the rostrum. Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, you remember that many of our colleagues, who called themselves experienced politicians, predicted that the coalition of democratic forces would not be able to choose the Supreme Council head, and our Parliament expected a long and very boring spikeriad. The fact that this did not happen attests to the presence in the Hall of the Supreme Council — Mr. Yatsenuk. At the same time, dear fellows, I don't think we can afford to continue our rest anyhow. The Supreme Council should work and work effectively. At the same time, it is clear that there are still some consultations on committee formation, the formation of the Supreme Council’s leadership, and so forth. But! In order to resolve a more fundamental issue, namely, the adoption of legislative acts, that is, the main result of our Parliament's work, and we all promised you during the elections, that you would cancel the parliamentary immunity, and take away the benefits, and many other issues that need an immediate solution, your colleagues, and that's exactly what Victor Yushchenko was talking about yesterday when he reminded you that you should adopt 12 prime laws. In order to adopt these 12 laws and not waste time on fruitless negotiations alone, but to hold them in parallel, the faction of the “Julia Timoshenko Block” proposes to create a temporary special commission, and you know, experience in our Supreme Council is just like that. When there are principles and immediate laws, we have always set up a commission with you that has worked out the exact effective voting for the legislative acts, and on this committee proportionally the number of factions to include all of our representatives with you. This is the kind of decision we have made and we ask very much, Arsenija Petrovich, after I think half an hour will be given to the national deputies to put it to the vote -- a project to create a temporary commission that will be able to produce these legislative acts within a week. And this time, while she's working, we'll be able to discuss with you the matter of representation on the committees, and the board of directors, and select your first deputy, and the deputy head of the Supreme Council. So, honourable colleagues, I emphasize, we offer not to rest, not just to negotiate, but to work for the outcome. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u3	Thank you, Alexander Valentinovich. [[Applause]] The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Samuelka Catherine Semenovna Peter Mikolaiovich, please give you the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, while welcoming you, I would like to remind you once again that the experience of our previous work with you provides answers to the questions that have already come before us. And the first principle. It is only then that we will have effective work to do when we act on the basis of the promises we made to the electorate, and it is in the legislative process that we will protect their interests. It's different. The effectiveness of our work depends on the extent to which we follow the Rules approved by the previous Supreme Council and the one that provides answers to all questions about the sequence of consideration and the manner in which we deal with such questions. So again and again, on behalf of our faction, what we need to understand is that unless there is a balance of power in the Supreme Council, depending on the results of the vote that took place on September 30th, this Supreme Council will be ineffective from the very beginning. So I warn my colleagues, who are in such a hurry today, to take this step. Regarding the special committees that are now being proposed. Ladies and gentlemen, we can create. But there is one “but. ” Only then will the result of this commission and we will really come to some conclusions or suggestions when the previous committees of the Supreme Council are considered professionally, so let's say, the principles will be discussed by those or other projects when they propose for the consideration of the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council will not vote, only then will a special commission be set up to reconcile all issues and bring them to the consideration of the Supreme Council. Thus, the faction of Communists again and again urges all national MPs to act in accordance with the requirements that voters have put before us today. And in order for us to get through this more organizational definition of our work, we have to act only on the basis of the Constitution and the Rules. Regarding the main directions of the work of the Supreme Council, we expressed our point of view yesterday, which is what we openly stated. The Communist faction of more than 20 bills has already introduced specifics for consideration by the Supreme Council and is ready to present them. But we understand that these projects should also be considered on committees to be prepared for consideration by the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council has voted accordingly. Thank you for your attention. And yet I suggest we move on to agree on proposals on the agenda, or organizational issues, and announce a break by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u5	Thank you. Block Litvina, Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich. Substitute for Mr. Oroto.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, allow me to express the position of the Lithuanian Block on the issues raised. We believe that, first of all, we need to complete the formation of the governing bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and, therefore, select the First Deputy, the Deputy, and the Personal Composition of the Committees. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that the distribution to ensure the effective work of the Supreme Council should not only be quota-based but should take into account the weight of the position of the Head of the Supreme Council, the First Deputy, the Deputy, the Head of the Budget Committee. Any bill that we have to consider should go through expertise on the committees. We have to provide the work of the Ukrainian Parliament for all five years, and so today we need to lay a normal foundation for work. We're in favour of creating a TSC, but first let's create a temporary commission for the adoption of Ukraine's budget, because this is much more important in our view than any other issue. Second, the Block of Lithuania proposes to create a temporary commission of inquiry on the disturbing facts that have occurred in the pit of the West and that we today have in the coal industry. We cannot stand apart from what has been lost. Then confirm everything else. Dear colleagues, we propose to continue the work of the Supreme Council in such a key as the Ukrainian Rules provide. And to prevent the consideration of package bills until our committees are formed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u7	Thank you. Knjazevich Ruslan Mihajlovich, Block "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u8	Good morning. Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to welcome from our faction all military personnel today the Day of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Secondly, Arsenija Petrovich, I think that before we consider these two important questions about the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council, we should go back to that very, very shameful fact that, during the election of the Supreme Council, our deputies, our colleagues, who were also part of the Counting Commission, and members of other factions of the MPs, by not issuing ballots, or even by brutally, you know, picking up, tearing up ballots, hindering the free will of part of their colleagues. In this regard, I think it is appropriate for you to give an order to the Standing Committee and to consider this infamous fact and to make suggestions to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With regard to today's situation, the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" bloc considers it appropriate to consider as soon as possible the bills set out in the Treaty on the Creation of a Democratic Coalition and under consideration, which the President of Ukraine insisted on yesterday. How will this be done? This is already a matter for Parliament. Obviously, it's worth considering, indeed, the creation of a special temporary commission that should consider all these bills, because we now have no committee and all the relevant committees are profiled, which are mandated by some or other issues. At the same time, I remind you that in accordance with the Rules, such a temporary special commission is acting on the rights of the Main Committee and can address any issue of the agenda. We believe that this process must be expedited as soon as possible in order to urgently consider amending the Constitution of Ukraine with regard to the abolition of parliamentary immunity, the amendment of the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy in Part of the Repealation of Deputies and Privileges in respect of the Law of Ukraine on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is largely contrary to the current Constitution of Ukraine. We believe that it must be considered in an orderly manner by the time of the creation of the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, so that the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will know exactly what powers it must carry out its work. More than that. We also propose in this package to consider the election of the Kiev City Head, the amendment of the Law on State Procurement of Goods, Work and Services, as well as the ratification of the statute of the GUAM International Organization. We think it's worth taking a whole range of measures, the first of which is to consider creating a temporary special commission. That is why we support the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” and we believe that this issue should be urgently brought to the attention of the Ukrainian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u9	Thank you. A party of regions, Konovaluk Valerius Ilchi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u10	Please give the word to Mikola Janovich Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u11	Mikola Janović Azarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The Party of the Regions welcomes the fact that, after the annual recess, Ukraine's highest legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, finally began its work. The Party of the Regions is committed to constructive work in Parliament. From what does the constructive work of the Supreme Council depend? First of all, this constructive work depends on compromise, on the balanced work of all factions of the Supreme Council, on the constructive work of the committees of the Supreme Council, the working bodies of the Supreme Council. Therefore, in favour of the speedy establishment of the constructive work of the Supreme Council, we are particularly committed to strict compliance with the Rules and Laws of Ukraine. We must first of all set up the working bodies of the Supreme Council with you. Select and form the committees of the Supreme Council. To choose the leadership of Parliament. We categorically reject calls for the country's most serious bills to be considered in a package or other way that violates the principles of legislation. We therefore insist on the only possible and proper way to form the Supreme Council, as defined by the Rules. Today we held the first meeting of the Conciliation Group on the organization of the work of the Supreme Council. The main principles on which the working bodies of Parliament should be formed were considered. Therefore, there are now two ways before Parliament. First. It's blackmail of the so-called majority and knee-deep decision-making. If you choose this path, this Parliament is doomed, and it is unable to do good to the country. A second path that has always been guided by the Party of the Regions in organizing the work of Parliament. This is normal work in the walls of Parliament, seeking reasonable compromises for the benefit of the country. And we call on everyone to be guided by this principle. We therefore support the proposal made by Arsenia Petrovic Yacenuk to now suspend and immediately begin the work of the factions on the formation of working bodies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u14	We also support the proposal of Arsenia Petrovich Yatsenyuk that we should come up with the most agreed solutions. That is the kind of policy that can bring good news. Anatoly Sergeyevich, we just started working.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u15	Mikolo Janovich, I'd like to ask you for your permission to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u16	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u17	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a word with you? The first and most important thing is that the entire composition of the Supreme Council is in the hall today. That's why, as far as I'm concerned, we started our work normally with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The second item is about mutual acceptance and compromise. In view of the fact that interfractional consultations have actually begun and only today, after the meeting of the Supreme Council there is agreement among all parties on the initiation of such consultations and the determination of the order and mechanism for the selection of committees, as defined by the Supreme Council Rules, it would be appropriate to start this round of consultations. The third and most important point is that I fully support the entire category of reporters who said it couldn't be forever. We need to start the work of the Supreme Council in the shortest possible terms, given the presence of all the governing bodies of the Supreme Council. In view of this, I have two suggestions. The first proposal, which was agreed upon earlier on our agreeing council, was to resit at 11 a.m. at the Conciliation Council and continue the consultations. The offer of a friend is to announce a break. And there are two approaches to the announcement of the break. The first approach is to announce tomorrow's recess. The second approach was to announce Tuesday’s break. Allow me, my fellow Members! In that case, if we do not find a consensus, compromise solution by the average term, then other decisions will be made objectively. But once again, I would like to point out that we need to start a round between factional consultations and try to find mutually acceptable solutions. In view of this, I ask you to discuss the issue of a recess at the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please sign up for your statement. Excuse me, excuse me. The first one is Koval. Just a minute because. They won't be there again? Please, Litwin. The faction of the Yulia Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u18	I'd like to give it to Zarubin Oleg Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u19	I offer five minutes for discussion, no more, dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u20	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear colleagues! As it has been known, there was one variation at the Conciliation Board, one option is to announce the break until Tuesday, because everyone understands very well what it means to distribute committees, what it means to distribute executive positions on committees, and what it means to consider the algorithm of how many points goes to the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, First Deputy, Head of the Budget Committee and so on. I realize that there's been some kind of consultation on the move now, which is called, but I don't think that even between the factional natures should deny what the Conciliation Council has decided. So I don't think there's really any need for discussion here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u21	If you allow me to comment, as you were not at the Conciliation Council meeting, I would like to point out that the Conciliation Council did not vote on this issue. In view of this, I have to take it to the hall. Please, the next one is Belarus, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, all that needs to be done today is to set a clear deadline for all these burdens, negotiations, and so forth. Please pass the word to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u23	Please, next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u24	Dear Arseny Petrovich! When you did the math, however, you missed our proposal to have the Supreme Council work effectively today. And I'll remind you that we've offered to adopt a decree establishing a temporary special commission, which would be in parallel, while you and I are forming committee leaders, we're choosing your deputies, we could already draft laws for which the Supreme Council can vote. These are immediate questions of both the MP’s benefits and the intrusiveness and other issues related to our country’s development strategy and the elimination of contradictions in the branches of power, and so forth. And that is why we propose not to take a break until a decision is made to create a temporary special commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u25	Thank you. I'm going to the programmers, please put the picture on a normal screen for recorded performances. Chewchenko. But he's already been speaking, so I'm proposing factions. Please, let's go through the factions and get it over with. Chewchenko is on record, please give me your word on the record. Shevchenko, please, faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko Block".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u26	My colleagues, I understand that not everyone likes that every day is approaching the country to form a new power, I'll tell you honestly, I don't like it either, because I think we should be approaching every hour, not every day. Good thing there's a Prime Minister application, we hope the President doesn't need 15 days, and he will, in one day he'll come back. I think there are enough experienced managers and administrators in Parliament who know that work can be done, not necessarily all 450 deputies working the same job now. Someone can prepare a committee distribution, and we have colleagues who can now work on these laws. I think we need to form a commission as soon as possible, which will quickly draft 12 laws, and we need to get the coalition and the new authorities to work in a qualitative way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u27	Thank you. Ivy Ivan Stepanović
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u28	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich! I support Oleg Belarus' offer to take time to pull. And I'd like to give the floor to Roman Zvaric's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u29	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! The faction "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" supports the creation of a temporary special commission to elaborate the bills that were being discussed. I would like the Ukrainian National Deputies to also take into account that this is a constitutionally defined mechanism for the drafting of such important bills, which has often been applied in the session room. As for the break, you don't have to take a break until Tuesday. Let's work as fast as we can. Four o'clock or not later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u30	Let me finish. Taran.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u31	Finish it. To finish you gave me. And one word, Arsenius Petrovich! We think it's not until tomorrow, but it would be better if the Supreme Council worked at four o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u32	Thank you. Taran, Timoshenko Street.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u33	Dear colleagues! We remember that before the coalition was formed, President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko said that he would not hold the Prime Minister for more than one day. This was said by the President of the country, and we remember those words. And that's why the Supreme Council should not give up on the pace of the work that the President proposed before the coalition was formed. Therefore, first, it is necessary to make a decision on the creation of a special commission to work on laws and to consult in parallel on committees. We have no right to lose pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u34	Thank you. Korniyczuk, faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u35	Dear friends, I support Mr. Turkin's position on the question of creating a temporary commission for the vote. I think that our factions can also support the Lithuanian bloc's position on the creation of a temporary commission that will deal with the budget and there is nothing wrong with it. And I remind you that voters expect effective action from us today and discipline in Parliament. I understand the position of the Party of Regions, which is trying to force the creation of a new government in a variety of ways, talking about its democratic principles and simply covering itself with ordinary words of fornication. Please return face to face, face the electorate, remember your election promises, have the courage to feel and take the position of the political power that has lost.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u36	Samuel Catherine Seminovna, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u37	Thank you. Dear Chief and previous speaker, please do not need speculation. No government and prime minister can exist until we form the leadership of the Supreme Council and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Arsenius Petrovich, you are being pushed to break the Rules today. We cannot create a temporary special working group until we have committees and until the Regulatory Committee considers the matter. We need to work ahead of time today to resolve these two issues. We can get together at four o'clock and tomorrow and tomorrow, but there won't be any decisions. We'll come in, we'll register, we'll open the session, and we'll split up. And that's why I support the previous proposals to take a break until Tuesday and then do the work and accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u38	Thank you. I'm proposing the final speech: the Suhi MP, the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u39	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we can embark on such a vicious approach, a distorted approach to the order of the day and the consideration of matters of the day. If we go in terms of order of day, in order of day, we have to create special commissions, otherwise all the questions that will be in order of day we will have to put a special commission, and we will have a normal job, we can't do that. There are committees that should consider these bills and give them analytical conclusions The other one. I'm officially saying that it's not a once-in-a-lifetime leader of the Viktor Yanukovic Party of Regions, I'm telling everyone who's here with the "black mouth" to be mean. A party of regions is interested in forming your new government as soon as possible. Form, you “white” “smokers”, do not wet anyone’s head, form as you can. And the last. I suggest we take a break by Tuesday to give you the opportunity to make a nice, delicate and beautiful decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, let us sum this up. I apologize to Zarubinsky's deputy because I just wanted to comment, I know the Rules, I spent the night reading it. So once again, I would just like to point out that at the Conciliation Council, we didn't have a vote on this issue, so in fact, it was suggested that we take this to the conference room. There are counterversive positions, and as Head of the Supreme Council, I'm still trying to bring the positions for mutual decision closer together. So my proposal is this: for 11 hours, let's go back to the Conciliation Council and get a statement from two factions about the 30-minute recess announcement. Then we meet again in the hall and make decisions. Mikola Janović Azarov and Simonenko Petr Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine and faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m0.u41	Distinguished People's Deputies! We're continuing our meeting. We just had a meeting of the Conciliation Council. And I'd like to bring to your knowledge the entirely new circumstances that are changing something, including our daily routine and further arrangements. Just before the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich was introduced in accordance with article 106, paragraph 9, of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the proposal for appointment as Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yuli Volodymyrovna. Ladies and gentlemen. Dear National Deputies! We have a number of unresolved problems in our daily routine. I'll do it again. Governing bodies of the Supreme Council: First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, all the committees. And a few different proposals on law enforcement in the walls of the Supreme Council, either through committees or through special commissions. My proposal is now the following. For consultations with the President of Ukraine, in accordance with article 200 of the Rules, we must decide on the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine within five days. To hold consultations when the President of Ukraine introduces the Prime Minister of Ukraine's candidature in the walls of the Supreme Council. To take up the position of the Supreme Council of the President of Ukraine on the creation and governing bodies of the Supreme Council, and the purpose of expressing the full position of the Supreme Council on non-conflict issues, and of taking decisions on the distribution of committees, I would now like to request the closure of the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. We scheduled a 15-hour meeting of the Conciliation Council. And at 4:00 p.m., we'll start the evening meeting of the Supreme Council. I believe the meeting, the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is closed. Thank you.
