ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to register. [[10:01:35]] Registered -418 There are 418 national deputies registered in the hall. Please show by factions. I declare the morning session of the plenary of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Sixth Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. They're coming, colleagues. We've just met on the Conciliation Council, unfortunately, in a semi-saturated format, because not all of the factions of the Party of Regions have arrived, and so I have not been able to get the signature of the faction of the Party of the Regions on the corresponding draft ruling. However, as promised, the draft decree was signed by four individuals. We're handing out this draft Supreme Council ruling, and I'm asking for 30 minutes, while we're going to be doing it in accordance with article 25 of the Supreme Council Rules of Procedure, so called, for us to complete the procedure, because there are some disagreements about the personal composition of the Party of the Regions itself, so that we have a consensual and balanced position on all issues. Dear colleagues, according to article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes. I ask you to begin the session of the Supreme Council with a record for the presentation of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Please sign up for the performance. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”, please. On the way out of the rostrum. If there is a desire from place, it will be from place. Ah, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. I don't see just who. Colleagues! I'm begging you to be quiet. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished national MPs, I think we should welcome our fellow countrymen with New Year's, Christmas holidays and wish all of us that the Supreme Council in its normal state would be working on these days that have been left until New Year's. And now, essentially, the question. Yesterday there was a statement from our faction regarding the need to adopt the Ukrainian Act on the continuation of the moratorium on the sale of land. Unfortunately, this subject has been overlooked by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because we, in our faction, have a strong impression that today there is an unrestrained desire not to make a decision in substance, but to bring up the core internal document of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the Rules, under a political situation, under a political moment, under the processes that are taking place, both in the coalition and in those that are not part of the coalition. So first and foremost, and this is the position of our faction: before we consider the issue of the State Budget Act, we propose, we insist that the law on moratoriums be passed on the land market. In general, we believe that agricultural land should not be a subject of purchase and sale. That's the key question. And all the references to the fact that the end positions don't allow market entry will not, as we often do, be done. The second is an inventory of the land. Next moment, key. Before considering the budget, we need to listen to what has been done with the 2007 budget. One more moment. Consider the main directions for economic and social development in the country and then move to the budget. I would like to point out that there is obviously no need to report that the budget has been adopted. We need to understand every faction, every deputy, and we need to bring to the knowledge of the Ukrainian society what this budget is going to be, what the benefits are and what the risks are. We propose, among other things, to adopt a basic expenditure law that should work before the budget is adopted in the social sphere. And with regard to making changes to the Rules. I would like to say, let's say that if a political faction opposes making changes to the Rules, these changes should not be made because they have initially made decisions that are favourable to themselves, and now there is an attempt to enforce the Rules. I mean. Dear colleagues, it won't work! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u3	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u4	Yuri Carmazin, Block "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", Party of Fatherland Defenders. Dear National Deputies! Dear Ukrainian people! Everyone's tired of the procedure that's been going on all the time in Ukraine, and now we see that there's an attempt to replace budget adoption by adopting a surrogate document. Our faction categorically urges all national deputies to work together, agree on the budget, just as a basic document. The aged of this hall remembers how 31 numbers of one of the years I had to bring here to the tree hall, now, thanks to the Head, there are two of them standing here, but I had to bring in the trees to remind me that the New Year was coming, and we accepted the budget of 31 numbers in the evening and nothing terrible happened. I'm reminding you because I've been presented here and told that some other indicators need to be approved, not budgeted. As far as changing the Rules is concerned. Let us treat the Rules as an internal document, so far as it is not a law. That's the first one. And the second. Trying to make a veto by one faction by loving the most important one is impossible today, because the Constitution provides 226. There's a lot -- the budget can change, too. Let's adopt the budget law, then they won't change. So let's also work on it. I'd like to draw the attention of a number of government officials who were and who are, that it's very important for the Ukrainian people to understand whether they realize the politics that 15 percent of the inflation goes on for a year, for November and for December, that it's already hit him. So it's about increasing pensions, wages and other social guarantees, indexing these pensions and social benefits. And so, given that the committees, I'm sure, will work and will be created, I'd consider it a retention from the arrangements of those factions that Arsenius Petrovich didn't sign, did they not appear, or did they deliberately delay the consideration of the issue now, and that allows us to move away from our promises. I'm talking about the majority. I'm pointing out that people won't forgive us if we're back on the budget with acceptance. Let's take a full budget, and this budget is not for the majority, not for the coalition, but for the state of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u5	The faction of the Party of the Regions. I'm asking you, Yuri Anatolyovich, well, we can't make it, we need to look. Shufrich Nestor Ivanovich conveys the word Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u6	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, today I want to draw the attention of the session hall, as well as of the entire Ukrainian people, to a question that is extremely important and relates to the organization of governance throughout the country, on all the chains, from the local to the highest. During the election campaign, virtually everyone suggested that the Law on State Service should be approved and that political positions should be distinguished from those of governors. No one objected to this, and this was put into priority and into a list of laws that are primarily for adoption. The government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic adopted its decision as a legislative initiative, directing Parliament. In connection with the change of government, the project was called off. A party of regions is introducing this project for consideration, so that it will be considered as soon as possible, and that Ukraine will not repeat the 2005 relapses, which are now beginning to get to know itself again. Again, without any motivation for professional conformity, people are offered to be released, or they are released without any explanation. And that's true in large numbers, like the Pension Fund, for example, when a person who has or does not have the highest level of qualifications in Ukraine in this area is offered to go, because they need to be freed again, they're getting closer to someone. If this principle continues throughout Ukraine, in every area, in every department, there will be approaches, it will be the work of destroying the government, the government, on which it depends on solving the issues of all citizens in our country. Finally, we have to make sure that management decisions are made by professionals, people who know how to do it, people who know the essence of things, so that they don't come to a rally where people need to be resolved, the question of professional organization of activities in every field. I would like to point out that we in the session room have to oppose such decisions and steps that today may put the Ukrainian people back under test by applying illustrations of preferences, by political views, or by belonging or by being a member of the family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u7	Thank you. Semerak Ostap Mikhailovich. Tomenko Mikola, please, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the faction, I would like to say that we are today supporting the agenda that provides for, first and foremost, voting for the composition and leadership of the committees of the Supreme Council, because we are convinced that the Supreme Council should finally take up its core function of lawmaking. And we believe that the issue of consideration and voting for the Vice-Presidents of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can be postponed until the opposition is determined, but we need to start working on the committees immediately. Therefore, the faction will vote in favour of the decree. The only thing we want to say is, I think our voters and citizens should know that as we count factions. Today's historic day -- on the 15th day, we waited for the faction of the Party of Regions to submit a personal list of deputies to the committees. And when it comes to why deputies need to work on the budget in the 30th and 31st, I think that's a pretty serious argument -- how long we've been waiting for a personal list from the Party of Regions to the committees. But more important than that. More importantly, as a parliament that has not fulfilled its promises and has not begun to work actively immediately after the election, working now in a way that our citizens know clearly that the budget as the basic economic law of our country will not only be effective, but most importantly, it will be accepted and approved in time for the Ukrainian people. So our faction will offer a fairly fast and efficient mechanism for discussing and adopting the budget, because we believe that we cannot enter the following year without Ukraine's budget. With regard to the problems raised by colleagues from the "Lithuania Block" regarding the moratorium, I want to say that our position is clear: we were then in the Fifth Council to call the initiators that the sale of land in Ukraine could only be started under the legal guarantees of activity in this area. And as long as there is no Earth Bank, pending the adoption of the laws that apply to the State Register, guarantee to those who take or build land. Our faction will not support the withdrawal of the moratorium until these bills are approved. We believe that the Supreme Council should adopt laws to guarantee order in Ukraine's land market. And finally, with regard to political repression. I would like our colleagues who are opposed to the future with confidence. Everything will be fine in Ukrainian human resources policy. And when of the 12 deputy ministers our government leaves four, it's not repression, it's order. So I'd like you not to worry about making an order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u9	Thank you. "Block of Lithuania" faction, Rudchenko Mikolayovich. Katerina Vaschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u10	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! Whoever looked closely at the budget, the draft budget, which was given to us by the old government, had to pay attention to two moments. This budget completely eliminates the norm, which provided for a special tax regime for the added value of the agricultural sector. And it's completely different with taxation in this queen. What does that mean? This means that the village will lose more than 10 billion dollars in one year. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask this room, how do we get them back to the peasants? They say it's like the kind of grants they're going to be. But if you've noticed, direct grants are no more than three billion. Three and ten. We finish the village in one year. And there's nothing strange about it. Maybe it's a big program because they want to continue to market the land. We talked and carried out agrarian reform with one goal: that the peasant be the master of the land. He's competitive today in the land market. He can buy at least one hectare under the financial and economic situation in the village. Is it possible that an agronomist, an engineer, a village specialist can do this? No, it's not. They're all in a very bad economic, financial situation today. So the land market will be introduced with one goal: to clean up black capitals, legalize them, or run them through joint ventures of foreign people. For example, in Western Ukraine, investors from other nations who are close to us are already streaming and say that there is no need to fight Ukraine and that its land needs to be bought. Therefore, dear fellows, we are not simply alarming today if the same method of taxing peasants with added value is continued in the budget and the Act on the Moratorium of Sale on Earth is voted on until normal legislation is adopted, because in this system it is simply a robbery of the Ukrainian people. Then we can talk about the new budget. Everything else, all the slogans in the rostrum, which is for the people, are from the wicked. It's not going to be for the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u11	Thank you. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich. Zarubinsky. Please, the word Zarubinski, "Block of Lithuania".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u12	Oleg Zarubinsky, faction of the Lithuanian Block. Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Dear colleagues, I would like to use this time to discuss the proposals made yesterday regarding changes to the existing Supreme Council Rules. I would like to pause for three moments because I think they are very important and the misunderstanding of this importance can lead to disorganization or to a situation full of the work of the Supreme Council. First moment. Such an interesting situation is suggested when a vote can be changed in the Supreme Council when no faction opposes it. You know, you could agree with that if the Supreme Council of this office had no longer used a change of procedure in voting for the Prime Minister of Ukraine. If that were the case, the honourable drafter of the bill, introduced immediately after the work of the Supreme Council, then it could be accepted normally. It seems to me that pushing the Rules into a situation is dangerous, at least six months later, and no matter when, this situation can change. In this case, there is a rather interesting situation. When it was necessary to change the procedure of 150 people, a discreditation was organized, a show programme for discrediting the electronic “Council” system. What we have already understood is that this has been organized, because after this all the voting in the “Council” system is beyond question. Doubt was there when it was needed. So the faction of the Lithuanian Block is definitely against such a conjunctural change in the Rules to a specific situation. Conjunctura cannot determine the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Second, an important moment in the Rules. A legal coalition arose: When is the chairman to announce the end of the majority or coalition? It seems to me that the initiative of our colleagues, it seems to me, is absolutely right. They're trying to unify this procedure. And as in the last summons, when fewer deputies become deputies for the faction to exist, it's given two weeks, 15 days, so that they can apply certain things so that the faction doesn't fall apart. I think we should do the same thing here with the coalition. But I am firmly opposed to such a position when it is suggested that the implementation by the coalition of its powers is suspended until the completion of the procedure under the law for the replacement of a national MP. Dear colleagues! Many of our colleagues will go to executive power, is it that the Supreme Council should not work all the time when someone takes an oath and the CTC will work? The Ukrainian Parliament is more important than the coalition. And when there are 440 deputies, 430 deputies, and someone hasn't been able to take an oath, that doesn't mean Parliament shouldn't work. That's why I think it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u13	Timoshenko Mikhailovich, Communist Party of Ukraine I don't see Greenewsky there. In the car, excuse me, half a second. Now I'm going to check on the car, if it was Greenewecki, we're going to give the Greenewite word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u14	Please let him pass, I won't deny it. Mikhailovich, this is doubtful.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u15	I've given you my word. Colleagues, please don't waste time. Please, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I have been instructed to announce an application for the establishment of an interfractional parliamentary association to support the Canonic Orthodox Church in Ukraine. We, the national deputies of Ukraine, the representatives of the various political forces represented in the Supreme Council, based on the Constitution of Ukraine, the choice of our people, mentality, history and the will of the vast majority of our citizens of Ukraine, claim the creation of an interfractional parliamentary union in support of the Canonic Orthodox Church of Ukraine. We have the political will to constitutional, legal, representative security of the right to freedom of conscience, to exercise Orthodox faith by our citizens according to their own beliefs; to create an atmosphere of tolerance, peace and respect for internal and church principles, decisions and canon law, to continue to provide legislative security, to effectively separate the church from the state, to prevent the interference of state, political, public organizations in internal and ecclesiastical affairs and to ensure a prominent and proper place in the Orthodox Church in Ukraine. The possibility of the establishment of socially important projects by church institutions for all sections of the population, the creation of real conditions for the protection and rights of citizens to free, historical and cultural, canonically-based exercise of Orthodox faith by Ukrainian citizens to the higher representative body of power, the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We report this to our electorate, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to political parties, to public organizations, to religious denominations, and to the entire Ukrainian people. We declare the application, and we bind it together with our own signatures. To date, there are 155 national deputies to the MPs. The co-ordinators are Samuel Katerina Seminovna, Koleschenko Vadim Vasilovich, Vasiliev Hennady Andriyovich. And I would like to say to you, honourable screamers, that in Ukraine's recent history, so much disgrace for the historic Orthodox Church, no one has brought so much destruction except for you. That is why I am proud to say that a union of church support has been established. We will do our utmost to ensure that the Orthodox choice is protected in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And you keep voting. You've already agreed to keep falling.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u17	The word is given by Grenevetsky Sergey Raphaelovich. He accidentally fell out of the car because there was a word transfer. Block of Lithuania, please, Sergey Rafailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u18	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that we have certainly entered a state of semilegibility. And all the projects that we've been given today, this once again confirms that we haven't entered the constitutional site and the legal field. As a result, we will act fully in line with the algorithm that was expressed by the leader of the Vladimir Litwin faction. But with regard to the 2008 budget, I would insist, Arsenius Petrovich, that I hear at least a little report on what was done in 2007. The thing is, we've seen government subsidies on the spot run 50-60 percent, and in the direction of capital construction, in general, 30-35 percent of development goes. The question is: Who would benefit from this? Another direction. It's about prognosis. It seems to me that it would have been necessary for them to be more widely exposed and shown on what basis the 2008 budget would be based so that what happened in 2007 would not happen. How will the Procurement Act work? And one more thing I'd like to stress is a bunch of votes. We're going to go to a bunch of ballots, but on condition that our nation's basic national wealth is preserved, as enshrined in the Constitution, the land. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u19	Thank you. Schmellow Svetlana Alexandrovna, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, dear Mr. Head, unfortunately, my first speech from this high rostrum will be about raiding the state's publishing complex, the planned destruction of polygraphism. This crime is led by DAC “Ukrudavpoligraphy” which includes twenty-two publishing houses, and in general about thirty enterprises, including the publication “Kiivska Pravda” where 250 thousand copies of the newspaper “Kiivska Vjesnik” are located and printed. As early as last year, we were alarmed about the fact that businesses that entered the Daku were planning to put on the market — an attack on Ukraine’s information security. At the same time, the Head of the National Journalists' Association addressed Mr. Azarov, vice-premier, in writing, informing that editorial groups in Zaporozhye had been denied, where district newspapers had been thrown out of the house, where new owners had closed doors to offices, changed locks, and increased rents. The same thing was done with the Polygraph Converse in Ternopol. The daily rent has devastated the editorial budget of Freedom, the Tavria newspaper and newspaper complex in Crimea has been re-profiled, pushing journalists into one room and threatening to throw them out into the street at all. Re-profiled and thus released the workers of the district printery in the city of Raven. The same lotion, sorry, is happening with the edition of Kiev Truth, which was quite recently profitable. Tell me, fellow MPs, why destroy the enterprise that fills the state budget, which, apart from economic benefits, has ideological, spiritual and cultural significance? Managers assigned to manage VAT have changed 95 percent of the management of experts, and people far from learning about polygraphing have come to their seats. In addition, the new VAT management has pushed all manufacturing facilities into a building that is harmful to the quality of printing, reduced the number of customers, sent a lot of newspapers, and the Evening Kiev is also being printed elsewhere. As a person, after 44 years of polygraphing and journalism, I have no other option than to apply for the theft of state property to the Public Prosecutor's Office, because once the new draft Law on Ukraine's State Budget 2008 removes the ban on the privatisation of Ukrainian strategic objects that include polygraph companies, it will be too late to stop thieves and state property thefts. I consider it my civic duty.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u21	Volintz passes the word to Zybenko, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u22	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear colleagues! You and I are doomed in a good sense to this word by the end of 2007, despite all the problems that exist in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to adopt Ukraine's main law for the following year, I mean, the 2008 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. I am absolutely convinced that it is possible to base the document that was submitted by the previous government in September for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To take it in view of the fact that this document has already been processed to some extent. During December months, it has already undergone corresponding changes in inflationary processes. And even if there are claims against him, before this document, we can accept this document in order to enter the new financial year with the financial constitution and work along with the changes to this document. I am absolutely convinced that the adoption of this document is fully in line with the interests and policies and the average citizens. Because this is the document that holds the fate of the people of Ukraine. As a small example, I want to say the following. What if I fail to adopt the 2008 budget by the end of this year is the situation that I wanted to illustrate. We're going to have to return the basic pension, which is based on a minimum of living for the unemployed by January 2007. And that means that once again we're going to take the minimum of living, or 380 dollars. In December it is 410, and the project proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council is 470. That is, for an average citizen, the difference in ninety bracelets is absolutely significant. And most of all. I don't see any obstacles at all to taking on the basis of the draft state budget presented by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which is under consideration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I am absolutely convinced that any delay, and even more so, the artificial restraint of the adoption of the State Budget of Ukraine will mean only one thing that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is interested in manually directing the government's pocket for a period of time. And in this way, you can count on your financial sponsors to support the coalition in the previous elections. I have another explanation for any artificial restraint.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u23	Thank you. Honorable Ukrainian National Deputies, the time for the national deputies from the rostrum has come to an end. I'd like to inform you about a few important things. The first issue is the adoption of the 2008 Act on the State Budget. I'm going to start by saying that, formally and legally, we don't yet have a draft Ukrainian State Budget 2008 in the Supreme Council walls. It will be after a government meeting that should take place today. Item two. That in fact the procedure for the adoption of the Law on the State Budget has been totally disrupted for objective reasons rather than subjective reasons. Thus, three readings, which are provided for in the Law on the Budget Code of Ukraine, are not presented in the format provided for in the relevant Code of Budgets. Third and most important. In that case, if we do not adopt the State Budget Act by the end of this year, we will in fact destroy the entire system of social standards, as we will have to finance these social standards exclusively in the parameters defined by the old Ukrainian State Budget Act. It's about minimum wage, it's about all minimum living standards, it's about pensions and other social benefits. Next item. We're in the right-wing colossal. And given that this legal coalition exists, we need to rely on article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which clearly determines when the financial year begins, which is the fiscal year starting on January 1st of the following year. In view of this, as Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for the purpose of not being accused by anyone in Ukraine that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is unable to accept the budget, it is able to accept the budget, it has brought to your attention a draft Supreme Council Decision on the procedure and features of the review and adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2008. We agreed as follows. And I ask every faction leader, and every national MP, to look closely at this draft decree. And in order for us to bring those agreed-upon orders to this decision, we accept this determination. And today, after the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, for the first time, the government asked the finance minister to come to the budgetary committee, which I believe will be formed today, for a report to the budgetary committee on the 2008 budget. Tomorrow we'd be working on the budget committees again, inviting the finance minister to the evening plenary meeting, asking extremely actively questions, making appropriate proposals to this budget. And the deadline that I propose to consider is 30. In view of this, I would very much like to ask everyone to consider this draft regulation, and today, before the government meets, we will show that the Supreme Council is working on a change of procedure, although I understand that we are in the legislative ladders. On the one hand, there is a violation of the Budget Code, on the other hand, we have 47 million people to pay money to pay, and one twelve do not provide funding, a rule of the Budget Code, we will not be able to provide adequate social standards. The second is about our order of the day. At the Conciliation Council, we decided to consider the issue of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of this, and this has been unanimously supported by all factions' leaders, I ask you to move from article 16, paragraph 12, paragraph 1, of the Rules to article 16, paragraph 13, of the Rules, namely, to the election of the heads of committees, the first deputies, representatives of heads, secretaries and members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So I ask you to put this question to a vote on this issue. Please vote. [[10:40:18]] For 340. Thank you, distinguished national MPs. Thus we have the full legal right, in accordance with article 16 of the Rules, to consider the matter. Ladies and gentlemen, you have a draft of Supreme Council of Ukraine Supreme Order No. 10 on the election of heads, first deputies and deputy heads of committees. [[Registration number 1006]] Here's the next offer. The interfractional negotiations have just ended. In order for us to have our rulings, like all future decisions, exclusively consensus and agreement, I would ask that, for reasons of vote from each faction per minute, because this order of the Rules should be recorded. Let's get out of here. Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich, “Block Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u24	Please give Oleg the right to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u25	Oleg Zarubinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u26	Thank you very much. Dear Arseny Petrovich, your honorary colleagues, apparently those days that have been spent by the various factions to reconcile positions on committee membership, on committee leadership, have not gone in vain, and we see a sufficiently balanced draft of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree. But in view of today’s professionalism and party activists, I would simply like to encourage and perhaps express my opinion on what is to begin professional work on the professional committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And no political preferences, no party-activist backs, obviously should no longer pass. The committees should produce quality products as the main subjects of legislation in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u27	Bodnar Olga Borissovna, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u28	Please give the voice to Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u29	Ivan Grigorovich Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, as soon as we have completed the final revisions of the document that you have in your hands, we have agreed that he will make the amendments that we have agreed upon absolutely, Roman Zvaric will make. And, Arsenija Petrovich, please put it to the vote without discussion, because consensus has been reached. We thank you for understanding all the factions that worked around the clock today. Question solved. You can vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u31	Thank you. Kenzior Jaroslav Mikhailovich gives the word to Zaritch Roman Mikhailovich. Roman Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u32	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! The Conciliation Council has just completed its work, and we are ready to make agreed changes to the draft decree that you are given. Such changes are very few. I'd like you to follow closely. First of all, National MP Sanchenko Andry Vilenović moves from the Tax Committee to the Justice Committee. [[BUT faction]] National Deputy Potapchuk Mikola Leontijovich is registered with the Committee on Construction and Housing. [[BUT faction]] National MP Davidenko Andriy Anatoliyovich moves from the Tax Committee to the Committee on Budget Affairs. [[The People's Union faction. "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense."]] And in the Science and Education Committee on the First Deputy from.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u33	Please finish the dates. Repeat the phrase on the Committee of Education and Science under the protocol.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u34	In the Committee on Science and Education as the first deputy to this committee, the Party of the Factions of the Regions. The faction of the Party of the Regions proposes the national deputy Dmitry Volodymyrovich, and the national deputy Zubec is a regular member of the committee. With such agreed changes, the Conciliation Council proposes approval of the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear colleagues, whether there will be further proposals for continuation. Well, we've got one minute left, colleagues, so I'm strictly in the rules. Tereshuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, “Block of Lithuania”. We won't say another word outside the rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, in our view, we have already reached all the agreements with the Lithuanian Block. The question of choosing heads, deputy heads of committees, is very important. This will allow us to essentially unlock the work and move forward, so the Lithuanian Block is offering to consider proposals and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u37	Zvojnov Mikhailo Alexiyovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u38	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! I think we've already discussed this. And the proposals that Roman Zvaric made, considering that they are agreed upon by all factions, are an offer without further discussion to put to the vote. This will enable us to start a normal legislative work in Parliament. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u39	Colleagues, there is a proposal to move on to the voting procedure. Simonenko, Peter Mikolaiovich, asked for a proposal. Give me your word, Simone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u40	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask your support. We want to include Alexandrovsk as part of the Privatization Commission. Alexandrovsky to the commission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-26-m0.u41	There's no objection to Alexandrovsky? It won't? Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? Point one: we can work, there are signatures of all five faction leaders, so the decision is agreed, no one is offended, we go to incredible compromises inside. This means that not only is the Supreme Council effective but it is able to organize itself and really reach consensus. Item two. So that we don't continue the discussion now, and this is the request of all faction leaders, the next proposal. 1006 we vote on the basis in general, taking into account the proposals made by Roman Mikhailovich Zvarič and Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenka. That is why I am voting on the basis and the whole of the draft Decree No. 1006 “On the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on matters of privatization”, taking into account the proposals of the National Deputy of Ukraine Zvarič Roman Mihajlovich and the proposals of the National Deputy of Ukraine Simonek Petar Mikolajovich. People's deputies, please vote. [[10:48:21]] For 401 Dear friends, "for" – 401. Decision taken. Please show by factions. My dear colleagues, in view of this, I would like to announce that today the Supreme Council of Ukraine has become fully and completely effective. I'm ready to do my job for three, because there aren't two of my colleagues yet. The next suggestion is based on your consideration, which was, in effect, accepted. We are holding 12-hour factions and heads of factions to meet with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for taking part in the adoption session, and more specifically to consider the draft Ukrainian Law on the 2008 State Budget. I appeal to all the heads of the committees, the deputy heads and committee members, there is a great request for you to organize work on the committees now, starting with your office duties and completing your duties to convene committees, as we have a day-to-day budget. I think that by the end of the day we will be able to provide you with all the materials related to the Ukrainian draft State Budget 2008 Act. In view of this, we will today ask the government to speak on the budget committee on the draft budget. Tomorrow I propose that we continue this work and that we hold an evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council to hear the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the draft Ukrainian Law on the 2008 State Budget. If such an offer is accepted, I ask to vote for it. Tomorrow we begin with the evening plenary session to consider the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act and the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the procedure and features of the review and adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008. Please vote. [[10:50:33]] For 268. Thank you. Decision taken. For -268. I'd like all the national deputies to organize the work on the Committees of the Supreme Council. Before the meeting at the Cabinet of Ministers.
