ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies from the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, TV and radio. Today, May 15, Tuesday, we have an scheduled meeting of the Supreme Council. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Put your cards in. Focus, there's a roll call. Please. [[10:04:12]] There were 260 deputies registered, and the morning session was declared open. Traditionally, let's congratulate our nouns: Demochishen Vasil Vasilovich, [[Applause]] Jigu Mikola Vasilovich, [[Applause]] Liczuka Volodymira Ivanovich, And let's say hello to Mike Vitaly Ivanovich. [[Applause]] Put the flowers next to you and take your seats. In accordance with the Rules, we have the time to make statements from factions, to announce statements of messages, to make proposals. Please write down who would like to speak from factions. And in an individual order, if you want, please. From the Party of the Regions Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich instead of Evtukhov It's where Alexey wrote it. Zybenko instead of Alexiev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u2	Honorable compatriots, respected colleagues, and representatives of the media! The leaders of our nation have recently agreed that the solution to the political crisis – in the early elections, which are to be held honestly, transparently and democratically, so that, first of all, all those who have the right and will to take part in these elections, and that, after the elections, there is no doubt about the results of these elections, and those who are dissatisfied, there is no basis for denying these elections to be illegal and to involve Ukraine in the process of new elections. The results of future elections should be recognized not only by Ukraine but also by the whole world. To this end, the Parliamentary Coalition has developed and introduced a road map to the working group, according to which the Supreme Council of Ukraine should work and adopt a series of changes to the Constitution and laws of Ukraine in a minimum of time. We insist that, by September 1st, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensure the creation of a register of voters according to the law that we have approved with you in March 2007. The unwillingness of the opposition to accept our proposal to create a voter register just confirms that they are set up for large-scale falsifications. By which society requires us to make changes to electoral legislation, according to which voting should be conducted on so - called open lists. In an extreme case, the electorate should be able to recall a deputy who did not justify the high rank of the people in the higher legislative body of Ukraine. Sadly, today’s legislation does not contain such standards. We cannot agree with the opposition when the date of the election is set in a totally unreasonable and unreasonable manner. The first thing to do is to amend the election laws, the law on CWC, the law on the judiciary, the administrative code of Ukraine. Because we've all seen how the President of Ukraine can influence an independent third branch of power that is now practically paralyzed in the country. So we suggest that we maximize every proposal to draft laws that have been developed and brought into consideration in the road map. And there is no hurry to make decisions on such important responsible laws. In time, the constitutional reform was taken into account in haste and under pressure. What this has led us to see today. So we point out that more and more political parties already realize that it is not possible to hold early elections on June 24 or July 15 if it is democratically and honestly for the purpose of holding these elections. The election date should be named by two Victors: Yushchenko and Yanukovic, based on the proposal of a working group, which, by the way, is composed of representatives of all the political forces of Parliament. And the next moment, we can't help but draw society's attention to the provocation that was sounded by the co-worker of the representative office of the President of Ukraine, Helletaj. And I'm convinced that this is one of the options that was meant to be removed, the illegal removal of the Cabinet of Ministers from power. Therefore, we require the heads of law enforcement authorities to give the principle a professional assessment of his actions, the activities of the Secretariat, and take appropriate steps to avoid such a future. Everything needs to be done with clean hands. And to conclude, I would like to warn "loving friends": in vain of your efforts to stir up and divide into a coalition of national connections, as well as in vain of your efforts, your efforts, your venerable, to use the Party of Regions to force Julia Timoshenko to create the coalition that you want to create and try to push into it. So I think the Party of Regions, I'm sure that won't help you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u3	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u4	Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Statement by the Communist Party of Ukraine and its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine “In connection with the systematic and presumptuous violation by the President of Ukraine of the National Unity University, the Company has decided to withdraw its signature under the document. The Yushchenk’s anticonstitutional decrees on the early termination of the Supreme Council’s powers provoked not only political crisis but also civil opposition in society. Thus, the President and his environment, in an effort to usurp power in the state, including through the use of force structures, have put the country at the brink of political divisions and territorial disintegration, which is a direct and irrefutable violation of the first paragraph of the Universal National Unity and Constitution of Ukraine. The actions of the President, his baseless and illegal decrees on the dismissal of Constitutional Court judges, the legally unmotivated dismissal and appointment of judges of the general jurisdiction, the slander against them and their family members, are yet another undeniable testimony of the President's disregard for the position of the Universal National Unity, in particular his third and seventh paragraphs. The decrees issued by the President on the reformation of the composition of the RNB and the provision of a council that is not suitable for it, including police functions, run counter to the laws and Constitution of Ukraine and violate the eighth paragraph of the Universal. Infringement of the eighth paragraph is also the intervention of the President in the activities of the Henprocuratorate and the establishment of illegal control of the BSS. As a result of irresponsible and anti-government foreign policy, neglect of the realities of today, efforts to act in the interests of third countries, especially NATO member states, Ukraine faced a threat of energy crisis, the energy security of the state was violated, the 20th paragraph of the Universal National Unity was violated. In general, all the points of the university aimed at improving welfare, improving the social protection of citizens, economic development and entrepreneurship, health insurance, etc. have been violated by the President as a result of illegal actions to end the powers of the Supreme Council, to block social laws and to work the government towards solving the issues of the state's viability. To fulfill its obligations to the electorate, taking into account the situation surrounding the cynical violation by the President and his environment of the Universal National Unity, the Company referred to the name of the President of Ukraine by means of a letter of a notice of withdrawal of its signature under this document. And the second thing I wanted to say today is from this rostrum. Ukraine, the world, mankind have received yet another unequivocal confirmation of the fact that it is no longer just raising its head in Ukraine, but that fascism is being established. In which he had mutilated his ugly teeth in the Pyementus of the Galicin Democracy. There was another pogrom on the memorial of Soviet soldiers in Lviv. This was done, as always, under the cover of night, as was the case with the modern - day spiritual descendants of the Fascists. There is nothing strange about that barbarism. Because first of all, the president of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, on the anniversary of the Great Fascism Victory, at the meeting with the grey-headed conquerors, proclaims them, shocks them by putting them in the same line as the conquerors of the Essesian warlord Roman Shuhevich. In response, his contemporaries at night with fractures and cracks confirm the ideology that was completed 62 years ago. This is how democracy is established in Ukraine, and this is what is encouraged in Ukraine by the Zacacean Department of Human Resources. And where is the President's response, the guarantor of the Constitution? Where is the Virtue Security Service of Ukraine? Where's the D.A.? Never. They're running to the elections to be able to secure the sprouts of this kind, with the permission to say democracy. Some ask what the official Kiev’s reaction to events in Estonia is. But it wasn't Estonia that started all of this; it was only a capable student. It all began and continues in Ukraine today. These Galician Democrats have been beating and destroying people for 15 years, and first of all veterans for coming to these holy places. Now they have come to believe that human memory and human gratitude will fail, and they have made up their minds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u5	Thank you. Gnatenko, general, will express his opinion from “Our Ukraine. ” Please. Lev Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u6	National MP Lev Gnatenko, Industrialists' Party, Entrepreneurs' Party, Defence and Security Committee. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people, distinguished representatives of the media! Recently, especially after the appointment of Ivan Stepanovich Plush to serve as Secretary of the RNB Ukraine, a variety of speculations have been spread around the possible anti-constitutional and illegal actions of the President of Ukraine, using the structures of the National Security and Defence Council. I have addressed you with respect, Mr. Viktor Andriyovich, and again I am addressing you as the President of Ukraine, the guarantor of the Constitution, please read article 107 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Act of Ukraine on National Security and Defence, and please bring the structure of the RNA into conformity with the Constitution of Ukraine. I quote article 107 of the Constitution of Ukraine. “The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine is a coordinating body on national security and defence issues with the President of Ukraine. The National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine coordinates and controls the activities of executive authorities in the area of national security and defence. The National Security and Defence Council's personnel composition of the National Security and Defence Council is as follows: Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of Security of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine.” Only six men. The National Security and Defence Council may participate, at the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and the decision of this Council of National Security and Defence shall be in force by decrees of the President of Ukraine. In addition, the Honourable Victor Andriyovich, you are further given the right to include in the National Security and Defence Council, once again, the leaders of the central executive authorities, only the leaders and no one else. I'm asking a question, unfortunately, why do you, by your decision to break the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine are included in the National Security and Defence Council of persons who are not entitled to be members of the National Security and Defence Council, eight out of 15, which is more than 50 percent. This is Baloga Viktor Andryovic, head of the Secretary-General of the Ukrainian President, Plush Ivan Stepanović, Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine, KirichenkoSergey Aleksandrovic, Chief of the General Staff, Chief of the Armed Forces, Kichtenko Aleksandr Timfievich, Head of the Chief of the Interior of the Ministry of Defence, Malomaz Mikola Grigorovic, Head of the Ukrainian Foreign Intelligence Service, Piscon Svetoslav Mihajlovich, Prosecutor-General of Ukraine, Ruba Yuri Grigorovich, Director of the National Institute of Strategic Research, Stelma Vladimir Seminovic, Head of the National Bank of Ukraine. None of them are the leaders of the central executive branch. So the President of Ukraine is violating the Constitution of Ukraine, the law of Ukraine, thus creating conditions for more important decisions by the National Security and Defence Council outside the Constitution, and outside the law of Ukraine. I am again addressing you and asking the President of Ukraine to bring together the National Security and Defence Council, as required by the Ukrainian National Security Council and the Ukrainian Constitution. In the same vein, stop all speculation about the possible unconstitutional illegal use of the National Security Council in Ukraine's political conflict. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u7	Thank you. John Boki has the word, instead of Savosin, that's what I understand. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u8	John Boki, the Socialist faction. Dear and dear Ukrainian people! Dear voters! Life in all of us is short, and it often comes late for life, except for the passing of time. When you think about what some of Ukraine’s leaders are getting involved in, it’s time to think that they want the Ukrainian train to be late for all of Europe’s train stations, not for life anymore, but for the entire era, the reality of today organized by our underground president and his high-road lord, the one who in white, blacker than black, the race for the return of his oligarchs and his family to budget streams, in the form of a permanent election, is more like the omens of democracy. It is increasingly evident that they are moved, not by reason of reason, but by the frost that struck them at the most beautiful time in their lives. The most convincing evidence of this marzam is distributed by some weird-ass bank cleric about the life attempts of Yulia Timoshenko, Yuri Lucenka, Victor Baloga, Victor Yushchenka, who seems to be preparing some dark forces no more and no less than a coalition. For this purpose, even a press conference was arranged and not anywhere, but in the President's Secretariat, a special exit of the cleric to the folded always in the slave position of “whatever you choose” of the “5 channel”. Thank God, the release of this panic in "Freedom of Speech" on the ICTV channel has convinced that the authors of this provocation, if all of them are at home, are not in full stock and with lost ten clips, and that this provocation is only part of the soap bubble with the election. It is common sense not to understand who is in need of a living, a common court-martialed presidential clown with the ambitions of a caligull horse, Judas Lucenko, or who, apart from business partners, is hampered by the martyr's marginal of Balog, and more so by his fighting friend with the billions of EESU, let alone the strange and beautiful head of state in this situation. But that's common sense, and they want to get a price. Not enough, in a mythical threat, that nobody needs a life that no decent person wants to despise, they want to build a powerful option of taking power in Ukraine, that is, a coup d'état. And they've already asked someone who's ready for all the Ivy. But there's the hope that the Ivy by nature is not a hoax, it's enough to stay out of the tree of democracy and not get caught up in this marasmatic company, as it's already been in the days of the notorious velvet revolution. Stories like this one from the crazy version of mythical attacks on completely unhistorical persons, and such passing figures on the stretches of some turns in Ukrainian fate, convince and prove for whatever reason, battles for their beliefs are never as cruel as battles for their deceptions. True, economic interests are not deceiving. Someone is fighting for the right to continue to feed PetroGaz, someone who is not at peace with the smuggling of borders, someone still wants to bring sugar cheese out of the cane, taking away the work of our weeds. By the name and trust of the people of Yushchenko, Timoshenko and the brothers of the court clowns and the business carnivores, they want to return and secure a common dining room. All of this would, of course, be a page of fun Ukrainian humor if it weren't so serious. The president is intellectually unable to offer Ukraine a construction project. He and the lady in white and his clowns and business carnivores are producing a crisis after crisis, a chasm. But look how aggressive they are. A barrel of chats is not able to put together a ring, but they teach everyone how to build democracy. It's simple: they've been learning to be gliding and ginormous, and even though it's our story, but it's the story that's always kept us on the "European train". There is a complex that moves them and leads to today’s marasmatic extremities. It's a complex of finches in which an eagle dies because it realizes that it's not an eagle, it's a finch. Let's remind the finches more often that they'll never become eagles, and we don't have to torture people with our complexes, we don't have to take their lives, we don't have to take their lives, we don't have to take them. And because of their tiny birds of reflection, Ukraine should not always be late for all “European stations”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u9	Antíshenko’s representative of the “Blank of Yulia” wants to make a statement. I'm not saying he's from a faction, he's expressing his opinion of a national MP, or maybe they've agreed who knows.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u10	Good afternoon, Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies! Secretary of the National Security and Defence Committee, Antipov Oleg Mikolaiovich. I have very often met with voters recently and, as a military man, very much military and not military, I have been asked one question. Is it possible to trust a man who swore, as the Bible says, and who told us that he would observe the laws of Ukraine and the Constitution? In violation of this, it is the first time that the Government and the governors are appointed in the same room. Is it possible to trust a person who gives the CNB such powers as are unconstitutional, which are not prescribed in the laws of Ukraine? Is it possible to trust the man who gave the team the illustration of more than 20,000 civil servants? Can you trust the person who issues the anti-constitutional decrees? And maybe, maybe, they're handing out all the time. I want to tell you, dear friends, that's what I'm talking about. Here's my basic understanding of the matter. It became clear that the President and our Ukraine had lost their clean elections in 2006. And what's happening in our country right now is simply a struggle for a rematch. It can be expected that the winning parties, such as the “Regions of Ukraine”, the Communist, Socialist parties in future elections will repeat their results. I doubt you're very, I think not everyone understands what opposition is and how they work. It must be realized that Viktor Andreevich Yushchenko's team has long succeeded in leading the way: divide and rule. Where are all these actions headed? Yeah, first, to break coalitions. If our policies do not understand this, they must re-examine the opposition. According to my modest calculations, the Ministry of the Economy's modest calculations for early elections will require up to 800 million bracelets. It's money that needs to go to social services. We're offered a referendum on the Constitution, it's money again. According to our committee data, the war in Iran is almost ready. This is going to be a sudden rise in oil and gas prices. What does that say? The country was deliberately brought into crisis and would have to be held accountable by coalitions. I want to tell you that when you talk to voters, you're convinced that they need us -- our electorate, not this vachanal in our country, but we need stability, we need work, we need a well-paid job. And I want to tell you that research has shown that the Ukrainians from the east, and from the west, simply have a great identity as Ukrainians, no concept of east and west. I want to say that the most important challenge I will repeat is to break our coalition. It is necessary to act politically hard and show the people the real face of the opposition. We're waiting for another order. There are rumors of a state of emergency. Don't believe this, who will carry out this order? I am a member of the HCHR when I was personally ordered by the Minister of Defence of the Soviet Union to bring part of it into combat readiness. Not every commander risks doing so because he understands that the people are behind him. I believe that the force option or the force option as it is is is excluded. No decision could be taken at this time that would have led a glass of weight towards the President. A compromise by the guarantor will result in the usurpation of power in our country by one person and will mean the end of parliamentaryism in our country. If we go to the polls, we'll legalize all the President's decrees and give him the right to do so all the time. And recently, one of the politicians said that this future president, to whom we would spend almost a billion dollars, would be a technical parliament. That's what we're talking about. That is, future elections are technical elections and where money will go is of no interest to anyone. What to do: implement the recommendations of the world community and await the decision of the Constitutional Court. Second. Members of the opposition will return to the Hall and do their work. Third. Adopt the Opposition Act and enter the legal field. And the fourth. Dear Victor Andreevich, my advice to you: cancel all these unconstitutional decrees and retire, do not interfere with our preparations for the European Football Championship. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u11	It's a light bulb. What about Blackwolf? And Jaroschuk gives his voice to Blackwolf and asks for the unification of these voices, and in five and a half minutes he tries to express his opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u12	Okay. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear fellow MPs, radio listeners! Regrettably, at a time when it would seem that, once again, the conflict, which was created artificially in Ukraine, would seem to have come to an end when it became clear that our party, the party of the coalition, is ready to go to a meeting, to take concessions in order to remove the opposition that has so far been in power and little chance of moving to a society, unfortunately, at this time they are again forced by the so-called “war party” in the context of the President's attempt to activate the so-called force option. Unfortunately, in the past weekends, Ukraine has rebalanced on the sidelines of peaceful constitutional development of events and strong developments, a forceful scenario that can ultimately question the continued existence of the State of Ukraine in general. Unfortunately, the “party of war” around the President, headed by the Secretary, the Head of the Secretariat of President Balogo and one of the senior officials of the Secretariat of President Heletem, who has already been baptized in the people by so-called littoral or martyrdom group, has once again taken a number of actions aimed at oppression, tension and attempts to engage very harshly, even I would say cruel provocations. We've all witnessed Mr. Hellet's strange statements that he has some data, that he's preparing attacks on opposition leaders, particularly Julia Timoshenko, that those data were built on some scraps of paper that he was given somewhere, that he knows about the criminal authorities in Kiev that he even saw who came to commit those murders. But for some reason he did not report it at the station at the time, nor did he take any action to detain these people. Like other things that didn't stick to a pile at all. And only, thank God, because, by means of the press, by means of television, by bringing out one of these officials, Mr. Hellette, on television screens, has it been possible to prove all the lies of these facts. And these scraps of paper became fatally similar to that chewed and digested cassette, where he told about 300 million on some signature, and other things became so clear and understandable that those people who tried to do this gang task didn't go into provocative action. I can say today thanks to the former Secretary of the RNB, Mr. Hayduk, whom we have always appreciated as a man of integrity and order, who has often been criticized for his actions and certain steps, for refusing to carry out a categorical order, a command aimed at destabilizing the situation in Ukraine, for actions aimed at the unconstitutional resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, in fact the removal of the Cabinet of Ministers, the capture of the Supreme Council and in fact the total usurpation of power in the Ukrainian state. This, thank God, has not happened. We have very high hopes that Ivan Stepanovich Plush, who is now in charge of this post, by the way, in violation of all possible State Service laws, will still play a stabilizing role and will not succumb to the pressure of the so-called party of war. But the machinist of these provocations, unfortunately too, is running. I want to remind you of two incidents that have now taken place in western Ukraine. The first is when, on behalf of the Party of Regions in Lviv, a number of tents were exhibited with the inscription “Lviv za Yanukovič”, “Lviv za Party of Regions” and the like, which were immediately destroyed, torn, torn up by the same people who installed them. I want to remind you. In Western Ukraine, we have a very important, very careful acknowledgment, we convince people, we convince people, we do our work, we do our own principles, and we never come to such open methods of agitation that can be used for provocations. This provocation was openly designed to act in opposition and to lead to some destabilization in the region and then to demonstrate it to the whole of Ukraine and to disrupt the situation in the country in a negative way. And second moment. A well-known Ukrainian provoker, Oleg Dragnibok, and his puppet “Freedom” party, claimed that in Lviv, they would now inventory and then eliminate the so-called Soviet regime's monuments. I would like to remind you, regardless of who treated some of the monuments of that period, all similar monuments were destroyed in Lviv by 1991. Only military memorials remained in Lviv and nothing more. We understand that the actions of a similar type that want to activate Oleg Pullibok with regard to military memorials will have a very harsh reaction in Ukraine as a whole. It's on the one side. On the other hand. According to our data, the same people from the “war party” at the President's Secretariat have already prepared one obedient ultra-strength force, an extra-parliamentary ultra-strength force, which has always been used by President Kuchmi, today by President Yushchenk to react to the actions of Tajnibok to cause mass upheavals, fights, an absolutely inadequate response that would allow for an emergency situation that violates the Constitution, direct Presidential rule or any other matter. I want to warn both the President of Ukraine, and here are those people who do things like that, that you can't cross the line. There is nothing beyond that limit, beyond the destruction of the state. We understand very well that when the President signed an agreement with the Prime Minister, when he went out of the crisis, he was ready for a real solution to the crisis that he himself created. We're hoping that the President won't go after those people who are pushing him into a forceful solution today, because this force option won't bring the winners. Ukraine loses and it's going to be a national disaster. And I'm very sad that even today, after all these things have become apparent, in the Ukrainian government at the President's Office, these people are still in office. That means we're not secure from continuing this option for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u13	Jakimenko, now. Jaimenko gave Stoyan his word. Or Cosub, more faithfully, Stoyan, I'm sorry. And we're done here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished fellow countrymen, distinguished representatives of the media! I want to speak on this: the impact of elections on the social policy of the state. I do this because the Yulia Timoshenko Block, others who are opposed, say, the more elections, the better the social policy of our state. First of all, I would like to point out that no matter what decisions are made on the next election, my personal opinion is there is no basis for either political or economic or social elections. There are problems of a certain political power, there is a crisis in this political power. And they certainly want to do everything they can to make sure there's an extra election, and they're speculating on holy saints, on social politics. And that's why it's a short story. Let's remember. When our opponents say that this is what we've made the government do now to raise wages, raise pensions and so on, we've got to look at the minimum wage and so on. It's nothing like that, dear fellows. Again, I want to remind you of history. 2004 This is where the social policy of the government of Yanukovic began. I was then the head of the Federation of Trades, and I signed a social contract with the government of Yanukovich. In this social contract, the government undertook to raise pensions to a minimum of living, to move from a cheap to a high - paying workforce, to consider introducing a single tariff network. So that's when the state's systemic social policy began. And it's not the government's fault that this social policy was interrupted by the President's election in 2004. But in the President's election, you know what was the broad social program of those who went from Maidan to the President's palace. We can remember that the rich will help the poor, ten steps toward the people, high social benefits to mothers with children at the expense of social security funds, and much more. And the government of Julia Timoshenko came. If they say that social policy is being re-elected today, I want to ask: Didn't Timoshenko and Yehanurov know that there would be elections to the 2006 Supreme Council. Wouldn't they at least take small social steps under those elections? They did, but one more time I remind you what they did: they raised prices for sugar, they raised prices for gasoline, and they raised salaries for officials. And they didn't do anything else. And so, by no accident in 2006, people, comparing the social policy of the government of Yanukovitch in 2003-2004 and the social policy of President Yushchenko and the government of Timoshenko, Yehanurov in 2005, gave priority to the Party of Regions, favoured the Socialists, favoured the communists, who united and continued their social policy. And now to the question of the last, the government's actions. You know, from the submission of the government, we're here with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u15	You're out of time. Let him finish his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u16	I'm done. They've adopted a big social program -- they're pensions for 12 million pensioners, it's the only tariff grid, it's 100 bracelets, 150 raises for teachers. But the President doesn't sign this decision. That's why I'm finishing up. I'm turning around. Dear 12 million pensioners, do you want a big pension? Go to the President's office. Dear teachers, doctors, would you like a single tariff grid? Go to the President's office. The pensioners to whom we have increased the pension by 80 G's of the average pension, go there. We did everything, i.e. the government made big changes to the budget, a big social package, the coalition voted for them, and the president doesn't sign. This is the real face of the coalition, the President. If you're not worried about the people, you're doing as Olyan Vladimir said here, gathering Timoshenko every week was gathering and saying, “And what did you do for social instability in the state?” Here's the position. That's the position, the face of the opposition. Here's their real action. So once again, we did everything we could to raise the social parameters. We'll do it to pick them up in June. We'll do it in October. That's what the opposition is afraid of, so she's blocking this job. That's not what the President wants as a constitutional guarantor. We urge the President to sign the Supreme Council's decree to give millions of people increased social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed our briefing to the audience and to each other with the positions of factions, individual deputies. Here are a few nuances to sum up our conversation. Vasil Alexiyovich said that constitutional reform under pressure was carried out, or whatever. It was conducted under the pressure of political reform. But all of this was done as was necessary for society: in regular order. Because the thesis that adopted changes under pressure are being used by so - called opponents today. In fact, everyone well remembers that the discussion of changes to the Constitution took place for almost six years, a referendum was held, and a general discussion was held in 2004. Then the changes were accepted. And it's not the fault of those who voted to ask about the changes to the Constitution, along with the question of creating conditions for President Yushchenko to become President, a candidate for the Presidents. We won't make any more of these mistakes. I'm not taking the fall for that, because I'm taking the stand against a bunch of votes. And today no one is going to vote with any packets: all documents will be considered in accordance with the Rules and the Constitution, in accordance with the laws of Ukraine. Regarding the provocations that John Sidorovich and other deputies were talking about, and Taras Cranovil, in particular, seems to me to be so obvious here, you know, playing with dirty or marked cards. Because the calculation was built this way, and it's everybody who can say: there should be information on Friday on the TV channel that there's some kind of attack on someone, that in half an hour, there should be an RNA meeting that's worried about this situation -- and that we should take some extraordinary steps, adventures, more simply. And here the Secretary of the Security Council wrote a statement that he can't participate in such matters, I think, because I haven't spoken to Vitaly Anatolyovich, and the houses are broken. They built one -- it didn't work. Then the head of the Secretariat, with absolutely accurate information, sends the same representative to the ISTV so that he can still, on the other hand, contact the Minister of Transport. And the people on this broadcast are wondering what you said on channel five. And they start asking a man questions, and he's swimming, because he realizes that it's all a fiction, that it's all a hallucination that's being subjected to society in order to justify evil acts. I think that MPs can talk, they resent right, they turn to that. So, literally, the next day, the faction of Communists came to the Attorney General's Office, and these provocations need to be answered. An answer and a legal assessment should be given. Today, MPs propose to take a decision on this matter and to send a corresponding commission to the prosecutor’s office. We will consider this matter. I don't think such provocations should go untraceable. And everyone needs to know that you can't play with society, especially if there is, if this game, the paw game in this case, is coming from a high authority. Regarding the proposal, one of the speakers seemed to be Peter Stepanovich, and no, Alexander Mikolaiovich Stoyan said to the pensioners: go to the President's administration, go there and so forth. It's more likely that pensioners can say to us and to all of us: “You go!” And they will continue to say where. But the thing is, we'll go there when we have to. And the signatures will be done, the ones that are necessary. And the law adopted by the Supreme Council on wage and pension increases will be binding. And the fact that such a delay has taken place today is simply because of the inadequacy of some of the responsible people, as to what laws should be signed. And by the way, the proposals on this point are also a reference, for this is a failure to fulfil constitutional obligations, especially those of the presidents. I emphasize that this is not a President's right, it's an obligation defined by the Constitution, and it needs to be implemented. After all, people are concerned about what is happening in the state today is true. And a lot of questions are asked, and the MPs who went to the districts on the weekends, and the petitions here show that people want clarity as to whether the law will follow or not. So I'd like to reassure the citizens. First of all, don't let them worry, and we won't allow any extraordinary situations, power actions, collisions or anything else. That won't happen. We'll do everything right, everything will be fine, everything will be fine, only it will be good on the basis of the Constitution. Don't let anyone think he's made a deal like that, and then they split up, and it's all been figured out. It will be as enshrined in the Constitution. We need to change the Constitution in some parts -- let's change it. Tomorrow in this room, I'm addressing the deputies, there's going to be an advisory council at the head of the Supreme Council in a larger warehouse where the heads of the district councils, the heads of the cities, will be present. It's going to be more than 200 men. And yesterday at the Conciliation Council, we agreed that a document that was prepared in advance that was coming out of that document that we sent to the Constitutional Court and those proposals that were made by the deputies earlier about removing the differences between the branches of power and so on. This draft amendment to the Constitution will be discussed at this advisory council. I would ask all the deputies to be present in this conversation, because it's about how people react, who will directly use these standards, first. And then we have to figure out what else we need to do to get the authority to the places, make sure that the authorities are effective there, so that the local councils elected and the executive committees elected by them knew that they were responsible to the people and that they get the tools to go to the people's needs. This is a very important move, I think tomorrow will be. And so I would ask all of you to be present at 12.30 p.m. here in the session room. Take a look at all the comparative tables, the draft changes, and so on. We're going to take down a lot of inadequacies that are happening today, for example, in the relationship between branches of government, so that the government is the same, not the two-colour government. I mean, not politically, but so that some ministers are. One had status, the other had status. All must be equal and accountable before the law, the Constitution, which is responsible in the part provided for by the Constitution, before the President, and the Cabinet of Ministers has been fully subordinated to the Supreme Council, as is done in parliamentary and presidential models of government. I'm paying attention to this, and I urge you all to be in session. I'm kind of annotating this for the TV audience and the radio audience, so let them think about what's being proposed today in the Supreme Council. Special representatives of local councils. We want the authorities to be transferred directly to the places. Then there will be no basis for corruption, no violation of human rights, and the authorities will become more controlled. I think that's what we need to do. In this regard, you have received a number of draft regulations that are to be considered and evidently adopted. Registration number 3523 is a draft regulation for hearing information from the Attorney-General of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service on the legal assessment of statements by representatives of the Presidential Secretariat regarding the existence of a threat to the lives of individual statesmen. I ask you to put this question into the agenda and consider it essentially. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[10:51:28]] For 254 The content of the decision is short. “The Supreme Council decides: 1. Hearing on May 16, 07, at a plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, information from the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Minister of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, acting as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, regarding the legal assessment of statements made by representatives of the Presidential Secretariat of Ukraine regarding the existence of a threat to the lives of individual statesmen. “ I don’t know And it adds an explanatory note, which has already been mentioned in the speeches of the deputies. In particular, the head of the Office of the President's Office, who is concerned with law enforcement issues, noted that he has records that indicate that there may be an attack on well-known politicians in Ukraine, as well as a series of other events that aim to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. I, frankly, have come to realize on the Internet that the head of the President’s Secretariat is at risk of life as head of the U.S. And it bothered me, of course, but it sounded like that on the Internet. That's true. And it is obvious that society should not be intimidated by such language in Russian, using “fearsomes ” in Russian, but by giving, above all, a legal assessment of what it is. And then we're going to investigate and see who's manufacturing these provocations. And further give a legal, legal assessment based on the Criminal Code of Ukraine. I think that's all we have to do, then we'll have order in this area. So you're given a draft decision and you're offered to accept it as a whole and with this argument that I've just come up with. No objections? May I vote? I'm voting on this draft ruling as a whole. [[10:53:47]] For 253 Decision taken. Your attention is given to draft regulation, registration number 3524, draft regulation to ensure the completion of the constitutional procedure of the legislative process and to take effect with the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine during April 2007. Well, it could have been April, May's writing. But what is it? Peter Stepanovich Cibenko has just made an argument that the laws have been adopted, such as the changes to the State Budget Act, which provides for higher salaries and pensions and so on. As you recall, at the beginning of April, the law on the permit to conduct military training involving foreign military personnel and so forth. All of these questions are in the plan somewhere, and they've been properly prepared. This decision has been prepared and the project is made by the Plástinski People's Deputy, he asks for a brief comment on this document, I give him my word. Please. Oh, first of all, you can't forget to break the Rules. I'm putting this project in order of the day, registration number 3524. Please. [[10:55:30.]] For 251 Decision taken. Please, Vladimir Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u18	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! As noted in the speeches today and throughout the entire April month, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted many laws, regulations, normative acts that require approval by the President of Ukraine. As the President of Ukraine refuses to carry out his constitutional duties, I submit, in accordance with article 93 of the Constitution of Ukraine, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft decision of the Supreme Council to ensure that the constitutional procedure of the legislative process is completed and that the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine become effective during April 2007. Why April, because today 15 May and 15 constitutional days taken to the President of Ukraine for the signing of laws are ending today. The signing of the law by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the final stage of the legislative process in Parliament, followed by the final stage of the legislative process – the introduction of the law. This stage takes place outside the Supreme Council of Ukraine and is implemented by the President of Ukraine in accordance with article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution. The Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 106, defines a list of credentials that rely on the President of Ukraine. In accordance with article 106, paragraph 29, of the Constitution, the President of Ukraine signs laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, the President, within 15 days of receiving the laws, signs it, takes it to implementation, and formally publishes it or returns the law with his motivated and formulated proposals to the Supreme Council for reconsideration. However, if the President of Ukraine has not returned the law for review within the time limit, the law shall be deemed to be approved by the President of Ukraine and shall be signed and officially published. Thus, bearing in mind that the laws adopted by Parliament during April 2007 have not been returned by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council, i.e. they are not subject to the so-called veto, in accordance with part three of article 94 of the Ukrainian Constitution, they must be signed by the President of Ukraine and put into effect. Furthermore, considering that, according to part one, article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is suspended on the day of the opening of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the new convening and in accordance with part three of article 81 of the mandate of the Ukrainian People's Deputy is suspended on a timely basis also in the event of a suspension in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine of powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukraine of the new convening. On May 14, Parliament is legitimate. And the President has to exercise his powers of entry into force, giving effect to the laws passed by Parliament during April 2007. Therefore, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has every reason to be concerned about the failure of the President of Ukraine to exercise its powers, particularly in the part of the signing of the laws adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, and considering that each branch of power should exercise its full powers within the limits set by the Constitution of Ukraine, it was necessary to draw the attention of the President of Ukraine, Yushchenko Viktor Andriyovich, to the failure to exercise the powers that rely on the President of Ukraine by the Constitution of Ukraine, in particular article 106, paragraph 29 of the Constitution. Therefore, for the purpose of ensuring, complying with the requirements of article 94 and article 106, part 1, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, I ask you to support such a draft regulation. ‘First. To draw the attention of the President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, to the failure to comply with the requirements of article 94 and article 106, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, on the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council during April 2007. The other one. To entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with an immediate invitation to the President of Ukraine to sign and publish the laws of Ukraine adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine during April 2007. Third. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. “ I don’t know Thank you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u19	Thank you. Have a seat, please. I think there's a perfectly clear offer to support it, and I just wanted to pay attention to one detail. It seems to me that this is again the Russian language of the President's Secretariat. First of all, he's told that parliament doesn't work. He can't, like the President, sit and watch TV all the time: he's working or he's not working in parliament, he's making decisions or he's not making them. I also turn on TV when there's nothing to watch, and they don't talk about Parliament, but they talk about things that can't be shown to people, but nevertheless. That's what he's obviously doing. And the President is trying to get away from these documents and he's not signing them. Now we will have reason to ask the President directly to sign his constitutional duty under article 106 of the Constitution and to stop talking about the fact that there are no documents. They are, must be accepted, signed, and must be put into operation. So I have this proposal to put to the vote this document, Decree 3524 and to accept it as a Supreme Council ruling. I'll bet on the vote as a whole, please. [[11:03:06]] For 253 Decision taken. It is proposed to consider further the Supreme Council's Order on the Referral of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney-General's Office on the need to comply with the Central Election Commission's requirements of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The project was implemented by Komar and Samofal. Registration number 3525. It is in your hands and I am putting to the vote the question of including this issue in Parliament's consideration, please. [[11:03:54]] For 255 Since part of the audience, our citizens are listening to our broadcast and the practice of considering the previous issue has shown that the argument takes more time than the document itself. I'll just read it. Won't they deny the MPs? Okay? I'll read it, and then, if there are any additions, you will. Address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Attorney General's Office on the need to comply with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by the Central Electoral Commission. “On 26 April 2007, the President of Ukraine issued a decree on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of successive elections, by which he suspended the validity of his previous Decree of 2 April 2007 on the timely termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Both decrees are now under review at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. According to section 2 of article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, authorities and local authorities are obliged to act solely on the basis, within the limits of authority, and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. Despite the Constitution, the Presidential Decree of April 26 on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of successive elections issued for the absence of the grounds provided for in article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which could lead to violations of the rights of Ukrainian citizens enshrined in the Constitution. According to part two of article 3 of the Constitution of Ukraine, human rights and freedoms and their guarantees determine the content and orientation of the State. The State is responsible to a person for its activities, the establishment and safeguarding of human rights and freedoms is the primary responsibility of the State. In particular, it is the Central Election Commission that heads the electoral commission system in Ukraine and is empowered to organise and prepare elections of Ukrainian national deputies, to ensure compliance with the principles and principles of the Ukrainian Constitution and the principles of electoral and referendum processes, the implementation of the electoral rights of citizens and the right to participate in the referendum, the same application of Ukraine's legislation on elections and referendums throughout Ukraine. The organization and conduct of the elections of Ukraine’s national deputies are governed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, including the Ukrainian Law on Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies. However, the current edition of the National Elections Act of Ukraine is such that it does not ensure that elections are held on an orderly basis, since it does not address the issue of all stages of the pre-election process. The shortcomings of the electoral law have been noted in more detail in Parliament’s address of May 4, this year. These circumstances show that, without making appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of Ukrainian People’s Deputies”, Ukraine’s Law “On Ukraine’s National Budget for 2007,” until the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law “On the State Register of Voters” in full respect of the holding of democratic, non-contributory elections of Ukraine’s national deputies on 24 June 2007 at the appropriate organizational and legal level is impossible. The impossibility of holding honest and free-standing elections of Ukraine’s national deputies without making appropriate changes to electoral legislation was also highlighted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, paragraphs 11, 15.3 of Resolutions 15.49 of April 12 of this year. Taking into account the above, given the lack of constitutional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, and then the reasons for the holding of consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, recognizing the responsibility of the Ukrainian people to ensure stability in the country, to prevent negative developments, to create the right conditions to regulate the conduct of non-recurrent elections of Ukraine's national deputies, the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposed to the President of Ukraine to cancel the President's decree of April 26 on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of non-earmarked elections. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its statements and statements, drew the attention of the authorities and local authorities, their officials and officials to the inadmissibility of making decisions or taking action aimed at the preparation and conduct of the early elections of Ukraine’s national deputies and in contravention of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine and the irreversibility of legal responsibility for such decisions or actions. In particular, the Supreme Council of Ukraine drew attention to this in its April 2, 2007, decrees on the prevention of acts threatening constitutional order, public order and stability in Ukraine, and the political situation in Ukraine related to the announcement of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of April 2 on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And in the Supreme Council of Ukraine decision of 30 April of this year on the election of the President of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine, attention was drawn to the need for the Central Electoral Commission to be guided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree of 2 April 2007 on the prevention of acts that threaten constitutional order, public tranquility and stability in Ukraine. You will recall that there is a commission by the Central Election Commission on the impossibility of violating the Constitution and the need to comply with the Supreme Council’s decree. It is known that members of the Central Electoral Commission, before taking office, have sworn not to the President of Ukraine, nor to any other official or political power, but to the Ukrainian people that, in exercising their powers in the Central Electoral Commission, will abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the non-partisan position, will be honest, objective and impartial in resolving the issues of the commission's authority, ensuring the implementation and protection of the electoral rights of Ukrainian citizens and the right to participate in the referendum. The Supreme Council of Ukraine will do its utmost to preserve the constitutional order in the country and hopes that in a difficult political situation, the Central Election Commission will be governed solely by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. In the event of a violation by the Central Electoral Commission or its individual members of the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine must respond to such violations in accordance with the law. “ I don’t know This is our letter to the Attorney General's Office and we're making her a specific proposal, which I am convinced is being implemented by the Attorney General's staff, particularly the Attorney General. So if you have the authors of this document -- the mosquito or the Samofal supplement, you can take the floor if you don't, then, and there's no objection, we'll vote on this document. I'm putting him to the vote as a whole. Please. [[11:11:12]] For 252 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Act on Shareholder Associations is under consideration. Reports the Head of the State Commission on Securities and Stock Market Anatoly Baluk. He will be followed by a report from the European Committee of Jury Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u20	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration, a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders' Associations, developed by the State Commission on Securities and Stock Markets, is proposed. The main purpose of the bill is to solve a large number of problems that are causing corporate conflicts and to protect shareholders' rights either as a minority or as a majority. The issue of corporate governance in Ukraine causes the largest number of problems in the domestic stock market and is the most painful and needs to be resolved as soon as possible. The Ukrainian Act “The Time Shareholders’ Association” provides an opportunity to address at the same time a significant number of issues related to the activities of shareholders. The draft bill took into account the provisions of the model law for the SND countries, the European Union directives on these issues, as well as a number of other international conceptual documents in this area for countries with economies in transition. The project received the approval of national and international scientists, lawyers, and economists as being in line with world standards in this area. The Ukrainian Act on Shareholders' Associations compared to the Ukrainian Act on Economic Societies, which was adopted in 1991, removes existing legislative gaps in corporate governance, and conceptually solves problems of ensuring the interests of shareholders, shareholders, creditors, shareholders, shareholders and the state as a whole. One of the main tasks of the bill is to strengthen the protection of shareholders’ rights. This principle is found in virtually all articles of the project. In doing so, the bill provides for some flexibility in making important decisions regarding the activities of shareholders, reducing the possibility of so - called roadside situations involving the passiveness of shareholders, or deliberately ignoring the general congregations of society. The bill provides for a clear ban on the artificial limitation of shareholder ownership. Experience has shown that the vague formulation of the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies has led to numerous abuses and violations of the rights and interests of shareholders, including states. Detailed positions related to the activities of shareholders’ management bodies With a view to speeding up management decisions, there has been a reduction in the number of issues decided by the general shareholders, some of which have been delegated to the supervisory board, whose members are chosen by shareholders and protect the interests of the latter. At the same time, decisions on the most important issues of shareholder activity have been left to the general congregations. This is primarily the case with regard to the refusal to commit significant misdemeanours with the property of a society without the agreement of the general congregations, which leads to such phenomena as the laundering of assets or fictitious bankruptcy. A new provision is the bill, which provides for the obligation of a person who has acquired a substantial package of shares to offer to other shareholders to sell their shares to that person. This will enable small shareholders to compensate for the loss or reduction of control of the shareholders. In addition, the bill regulates a number of other problems in the activities of domestic shareholders: the laundering of shares packages, the non-payment of dividends, the violation of the majority rights of shareholders, the selection of the supervisory board and the audit committee by means of a summary vote, the granting of rights to shareholders to require the compulsory redemption of shares belonging to the shareholder, the due protection of shareholders’ interests in the exercise of significant rights, the provision of a procedure to inform shareholders of documents related to the general meeting of the day, the mandatory inclusion of shareholders’ offers, which is owned by not less than 10 per cent of the votes, the reduction of the quorum for the holding of general meetings of shareholders, the responsibility for the non-disclosure of shareholders’s rights in the regulation of public authorities, the subsequent changes in the rules of the public administration. I'd like to take a separate look at those changes. The drafts were compared to the previous drafts. The main innovation of the bill is the refusal to divide into open and closed stock companies. Taking into account the provisions of the new Act on Securities and Stock Markets, the division of Shareholders is carried out according to the subject of the allocation of Shareholders to Public Shareholders and Private Shareholder Associations. Public society can carry out public and private distributions of shares. Private society can only carry out private stock placements. In the case of the adoption by the general congregations of a private society, the decision to make a public distribution of shares is to make changes to the charter and to change the type of association from private to public. The other one. The bill is designed to create conditions for the soft and non-conflict transformation of existing VAT and VAT, as well as allowing shareholders the right to determine the future form of organisation and legal society. In addition, it should be noted that the elimination of closed shareholding societies or the cessation of such stockholder associations in a forced manner would lead to massive disruptions by shareholders. [[about 22,000 registered today with more than 14 million shareholders]] Yes, the bill foresees that open stock companies that were created before the entry into force of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations for 10 years from the date of entry into force of the Act should bring their documents into conformity. If the general congregations decide to increase the statutory capital of society in the issuance of other securities, they are obliged to bring their activities into line with this law and to make appropriate changes to the statutes and other internal documents of the Society. Failure to make such changes to the statute and other internal documents of the Society will be a reason for refusing the state registration of the company’s securities. The bill also excludes the obligation to pay dividends as a result of each financial year. The bill provides for an increase in requirements for the minimum statutory equity of a company to 1 million dollars. Shares are expected not only to be paid with money but also with property or property rights. The deadline for publications to be held in the general congregations is reduced from 45 to 30 days. In particular, I would like to talk about the situation in which dividends are paid. Unfortunately, this has not become a mass phenomenon today, although some 7 billion dollars were paid last year according to information. Regarding the fact that we refuse to introduce a mandatory one. We believe that it would be appropriate to allow the shareholders themselves to do so, which will be determined, because the obligation to do so will result in a large number of shareholders reporting that they do not have a net profit. Thus, the implementation of such a standard cannot ensure the achievement of the primary objective of ensuring the rights and interests of shareholders. I believe that shareholders themselves have the right to make payments. At the same time, the analysis of the equity structure of Ukraine shows that most minority shareholders have stock packages with nominal value of several tens of dollars. Thus, even if dividends are paid to the owners of such shares, the size of such dividends will be several bracelets per year. In addition, the world practice of corporate governance, such as the Code of Corporate Administration of the Organization for European Cooperation and Development, does not contain mandatory rules on the compulsory payment of dividends, but rather leaves the issue to the general meeting of shareholders. The State should also exercise equal rights with other shareholders, including when appointing its representative to the Watch Tower Society’s Watch Tower Society. Yes, whether he is a State official or not, an agreement should be made with him to perform the functions and duties of a member of the Watch Tower Society’s Governing Council. This is also provided for by law. Furthermore, the question of the possibility of electing a member of the Supervisory Board of a State official is addressed in article 51 of the draft law, which provides for the possibility of entering into a civil law agreement that does not conflict with the requirements of the National Service Act. In the course of the drafting and harmonization of the law, hundreds of and perhaps thousands of proposals have come to him, including the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in particular on the need to reflect the sequence of action in the creation of the shareholders' association, on the reasons for the termination of the powers of members of the Supervisory Board of Shareholders, on the establishment of the responsibility of persons for offences. We consider it possible to take into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration in the drafting of the bill for the second reading, and today it is accepted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u21	Please, do you have a question for the reporter? I can't see. Well, that's what I understand. Have a seat, please. The need for law has matured, and the account of this is clear. And you, as people of life, and when you meet those who are using the Law on Economic Associations today and so forth, see that there are many inadequacies that need to be addressed, and it's good that the Cabinet of Ministers is introducing this project. Yuri Voropeyev from the committee will make a report on this, will make a statement to the committee's position, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u22	Dear Mr. Alexanderovich, distinguished colleagues, would like to draw your attention to this bill and I believe that it requires very careful attention to itself. The reason we discussed this before is to recall that a number of laws that we have considered and approved with you have been blocked by the President. They had been vetoed, for the simple reason that he felt that it was not possible to change parts of the shares society, and that the issue must be addressed in an integrated manner. Therefore, if we want to continue to resolve all the white spots that currently exist in the legislation, namely: in the Economic Society Act, the Ukrainian Civil Code, in the Ukrainian Code of Commerce, which regulates the activities of economic societies, especially equity societies, it is necessary to do so by a separate law, namely the Act on Shareholders. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy considered the bill at its meeting on 18 April and recommends that it be adopted on first reading by a majority vote. In addition, I would like to draw your attention on behalf of the Committee to the following: yes, the bill has not been completed, in particular, the Chief Expert Office has written to it, I believe, 86 amendments and proposals for the bill. I have already prepared amendments on my behalf to this bill, more than a hundred such amendments. There's a lot of rules that are controversial. For example, rules such as entry into force, the rights of a member of the Supervisory Board, not since their approval, but only since the conclusion of contracts with them and society, such as labour contracts or civil law treaties. That's not quite right, from my point of view why? The fact is that current legislation does not oblige such treaties to be concluded. Shareholders have the right, and that's fine. They decide whether a contract is needed or not, they will pay the salaries of members of that council not to pay such wages. But this bill obliges, is made, such a contract is concluded, and it is not good. Too many reference rules in this law to the Gocomisisia on securities. The right to purchase would be governed by the Securities Commission, not just by this law. The use of the Reserve Fund will be governed by the Securities Commission and not by this law. I mean, there's a lot of reference rules like that. This is also not normal, because it is not the law itself that will fully regulate the rights and responsibilities of shareholders, the very life of the shareholder society, its administrations, powers and so on, and this will, for the most part, be done by its regulatory acts of the Gocomisisia on securities. This is not good, you understand that this gives reason and reason to think that interference with the activities of shareholders is possible for some officials, by some kind of force. Shareholders and other societies struggled with great difficulty to stop being a binding founding treaty. What's the problem? If memory does not change, by 2004, every society must have had two documents: one, a founding treaty, and the other, a charter of society in its creation. This would lead to the need to pay a government fee of one per cent of the amount of the statutory fund when entering into the founding contract. This is an additional cost for society to register. With great difficulty, the legislator eventually withdrew that obligation and left only the existence of a mandatory statute. The Act again introduces the mandatory conclusion of a founding treaty in the creation of a society, and its naturally notaristic assurance, such a treaty, and of course, the payment of public duties and additional costs to members of society. Well, a number of other rules that are equally controversial and not very normal. But at the same time, all this time can be corrected, and it can be made normal and convenient for our shareholders. The Committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u23	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Is there a question for Yuri Mikolaiovich? None. Thank you. Have a seat, please. We'll talk about it a little bit. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please sign in. And while the recording is coming, I would like to address all those who are concerned with this law. And not just MPs, but those who engage in entrepreneurial activities, who are now part of stock companies, in different economic structures. Read this document carefully, express your thoughts through your deputies. We will certainly count them. Here are more than 60 pages of the text of the document itself, the law. You mean that only the comments from our 11-page expert management on a specific point where clarification needs to be made. They must be done. But we have to accept a working document that can be used by those who are busy in economic activity today. Melnik, please, Peter Vasilovich. Peter Volodymyrovich. Then Alexandrovska. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u24	Melnik, faction of the Regions. The bill under consideration needs to clarify the implementation of which treaties the legislator requires: contracts with securities or agreements with shares in particular. Because according to article six of the Ukrainian Law on Securities and Markets, the stock is the name of the securities. It's different. It is envisaged that confidence in the right to participate and vote in general meetings may be recognised by the registrar, the custodian, the notary and other officials who act as notaries, as well as by the organization in which the shareholder works or is trained, and by the housing and operation organization at the place of residence of the shareholder or in another order envisaged by legislation. However, Ukraine’s Civil Code establishes a comprehensive list of persons and bodies who have the right to certify trust that there are no registrars and custodians. I also propose that the bill should define the order and form of the law concerning the purchase of shares by shareholders. Taking into account the above, the Ukrainian Act on Shareholder Associations can be supported if the above observations are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u25	Thank you. Peter Volodymyrovich. Alexandrovska Alla Aleksandrovna has a word. Then Bogchuk. Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich, please, instead of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u26	Respectable colleagues, of course, needed and needed to adopt the law. The law has been prepared seriously. I have to say, I feel like the competent authorities have been working on this law. Well, in general, if we say that we, of course, have stockholder societies now account for over 60 per cent of Ukraine's large and medium-sized enterprises. And that share will increase every year. And it produces an annual amount of hundreds of billions of dollars. And here are the old laws, they're out of date. It must be said that legislation in this area is regulated by two hundred laws that are contrary to each other. Old Act on Economic Communities. It must be said that the bill conceptually addresses the issue of ensuring the interests of both equity societies in general and individual shareholders in particular. Attention is drawn to the well-designed part of the bill on the protection of shareholders' rights, including minority rights, which will in some ways contribute to the fight against the shameful phenomenon of raiding. The provisions relating to the activities of the shareholding society management bodies have been specified in detail. However, I would like to make some comments on this bill. First. Draft article 5 and others proposed that a new principle should be established for the division of shareholders into public and private societies, instead of existing open and closed societies. At the same time, the legal status of open shareholders is almost identical with the legal status of public shareholders and private shareholders. Why do this cheese boron, the first is what it takes to re-register the time and what costs, only the Notary needs to pay what money. It's an ingenuity, I think someone's initiative. Second moment. In my view, article 3 stipulates that no sanctions may be imposed on the shareholders. Cases involving the commission of unlawful acts by the oatmeal shareholders. But if a shareholder society is to make a decision that encourages shareholders to take unlawful action, it is necessary for the shareholder society to be responsible. Next moment. I propose in article 10 that, before paying 50 per cent of the shares, the shareholder society is not entitled to exercise any right. except those related to its establishment. And in my view, article 32, which contains a list of issues that have been referred to the exclusive competence of the general meeting of shareholders, should be supplemented by a provision that only the general assembly can decide on the participation of the shareholders in the establishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u27	Consider your suggestions they are in the transcript, and if there are any additional thoughts you should put them in writing, the committee will consider. Vasil Stepanovich Bogchuk, please follow him Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u28	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, honourable deputies! When I'm in the workforce, when I meet with shareholders, I want to say that they all claim the importance of adopting a single law that will address the problems of ensuring the interests of shareholders, shareholders, including small shareholders, creditors' interests, the interests of shareholders and the state as a whole. It would help to remove the gaps in corporate governance legislation. The need for a new law on equity societies is not what is mature, but it is now extremely relevant because it is one of the basic laws of economic development in today's conditions. It is also known that the major part of Ukraine's industrial potential functions in a form, in the form of equity, which is also the dominant and most attractive in terms of economic efficiency and investment around the world. In my opinion, the most important thing in the law must be the rights of shareholders, because there is still a law in place on economic societies, that has virtually not settled many issues, and that has enabled those shareholders who own most of the shares, in fact, to dismember from the general ownership of the share, by throwing small shareholders at their discretion. As a result, some became rich, others who were far more poor, and they became disillusioned. It is very important that virtually every article of the project is aimed at strengthening the protection of shareholders’ rights. And for the first time, the most vulnerable, small shareholders, in the draft law, the well - written details related to the activities of shareholders’ management bodies have been considerably reduced by the burden on the general congregations, which have shared their rights with the supervisory board, whose members are also elected among shareholders, and protect the interests of the latter. I believe that today we need to adopt this law in the first reading, also to take into account further comments that will be made by the people's deputies, the public and, finally, to adopt the only comprehensive law of Ukraine on shareholder societies that would increase the level of protection of shareholders' rights, the development of the securities market has contributed to the involvement of investments in Ukraine's economy, and has prevented the illegal raiding of Ukrainian businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u29	Stepan Semenovich Bulba. Anatoly Aleksandrovitch, please on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u30	Anatoly Bugaec faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! The adoption of the Act on Shareholders has long been necessary. First, this form of ownership covers about three quarters of industrial capacity. Secondly, the current Economic Society Act is hopelessly outdated. Economic society is not only a shareholder society, but also a variety of societies, limited-liability societies and so on, with its specific characteristics in the organization of production, reporting, use of profits. Shareholder societies themselves are divided into closed and open or public, and private, as the bill states, that they are not the same. If closed societies are, in fact, the property of the labour community or of one shareholder, open societies include two business entities: shareholders and employees, who for a number of reasons have not become shareholders. And the reasons are known: at the first stage, the so-called voucher, certified privatization of factory workers, with a great need for money in the face of a huge shortage of food and industrial goods at the time, simply sold their vouchers at no cost. On the other hand, nimble parts were bought by vouchers and later by shareholders and thus became owners of factories and steamboats, holders of controlling and blocking stocks, dictated by the management, economic activities of enterprises, their bankruptcy and the redemption of coins. Shareholders with 10 per cent or more shares have the unconditional right to include any matter on the agenda of meetings and the right to vote decisively in decision-making and so on. Open equity societies have shareholders in their vast majority who do not even have an idea of the products produced, the characteristics of production, education and so on. Many shareholders are not interested in the development of production and its technical re-arrangement. The main and natural objective is to obtain dividends. Thus, large shareholders and business workers are far from equal. Employees who produce products that generate profits from which they do not get much. It is believed that the time has come for the Shareholder Society Act to clearly divide the rights and responsibilities of enterprise development and profit distribution. Regrettably, the bill under consideration does not answer these questions, it continues to be based on Nepresov: “You are working alone, but you are doing a bit of work, looking, there are three lengths: God, King and Lord.” I propose this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u31	Yes, thank you. He was the director of the stock company until recently, Hero of Ukraine, Managing Director of Turboatu Anatoly Bugajec. I say now the Hero of Ukraine. But he was involved in helping himself and Nepresov. But I think we should be guided by the needs that arise today and still work on the Law. But he needs to open the way to work so that he can be handled by all those who have a bearing on shareholders. And this is, in fact, such an economic constitution, if that's what it's all about, it's a very important document. Taking part, insisting on the word of Cibenko and Chechtev, right? Please, Zybenko. Two of these are in addition to Urbanski, so let's take another nine minutes. Zibenko, Chechtev, Urbanski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u32	Honorable colleagues, Ukrainian citizens, Communist factions, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, there's already thought about this document. The first thing I wanted to point out was that not only are we, let's say, we're looking at this problem in time, we're late with it, we're late for a few years. And despite the observations that they are, and indeed they are, spoken of today and on behalf of the committee, they were recognized today by a government representative who reported on this bill today. Nevertheless, I do think that this document, at least in the first reading, should be accepted. Because what this situation is going to mean today is still a lack of regulation. It will mean that the number of raids will continue and we can turn out tomorrow or after tomorrow to face a situation where, in fact, we will adopt a golden law, and it will no longer be necessary, because we will destroy not only stockholder societies, but we will destroy much else. So I'm absolutely convinced that we have to move. And for us to move, we have to accept the document in the first reading and make all the changes that the Supreme Council will consider necessary in order to save this situation. For, indeed, there is no secret that very often the judicial decisions that were taken by the courts were not legal and that the situation was not settled. If you want the Shareholder Society Act from my point of view, it is a necessity that has to do with the fact that the Law on Household Societies has already outgrown itself. The situation today is different and we need to move on. But I would like to remind you of another situation that has to do with, in fact, at least side-by-side with the results of privatization. All of us remember our time when the privatization process began, how many good promises there had to make, this and the jobs would be created, and the goods of the market would be filled, and the budgets would be filled, and the wages would be paid, and so on and so forth. We had already tried to play this confetti, as it were, and we had already warned that many things were not going to happen. And for the most part, we have come to believe that, with the exception of privatization of housing, privatization has proved to be the kind of thing that has been destroyed by the economy of Ukraine. So once again, I stress that I am absolutely convinced that the law should be adopted in the first reading, that all warnings should be taken into account, and that they should be adopted by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u33	Thank you. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, followed by Urbanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u34	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! The need to adopt a special law in Ukraine that addresses existing problems in the creation of domestic stock companies is due to several important factors. First. Today, about three quarters of Ukraine’s industrial potential function in the form of equity, which is also dominant and most attractive in terms of economic efficiency and investment throughout the world. It's different. The existing Law on Economic Societies, which contains only 26 articles that directly address the activities of shareholders, according to experts, scientists and practitioners, has already exhausted its ability to deal effectively with the problems that arise in the process of corporate governance of societies. Third. The legislative imbalance in shareholders’ activities has already led to numerous conflicts in corporate governance, which have greatly damaged the interests of our state and its investment image. The introduction of individual cosmetic changes into the existing Act on Economic Societies will not produce the desired result, either because a fundamental reform of the system of legal regulation of the activities of shareholders, taking into account the experience gained in this area, is necessary. Fourth. The adoption of a new separate law that regulates the activities of shareholders are directly affecting the new Civil Code of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Shareholders, in comparison with the Ukrainian Associations Act, removes existing gaps in legislation in corporate governance, and conceptually solves problems of ensuring the interests of shareholders, shareholders, creditors, employees and states as a whole. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the state budget. The adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Shareholders will remove existing gaps in Ukrainian legislation in corporate governance and the activities of shareholders, improve the protection of shareholders' rights. Addressing these issues will help improve the investment climate in Ukraine and increase investment in equity companies. Indeed, there is a note. And a lot of comments are made by industrial workers, there's a note by the expert department. But completely right, Alexander Alexander, who says that we need to ensure the dynamics of this process, and we need to, on the basis of those pragmatic considerations, adopt this bill in the first reading, and further elaborate it on the second reading. Because this is really the constitution of corporate governance, which is very much needed by our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u35	Igor Anatoliyovich Urbanski, please, from the Socialist faction. Let's finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u36	Urban, PSP. You're absolutely right, Alexander Alexandrovich, that this law doesn't matter, that the Constitution, for business. So, I think he needs to be taken very seriously. All the time I've been understanding this law, I've always been overwhelmed by the idea that we, as part of the legislative process, look very much at things with doctors. They also have the same motto, "Don't harm me." I think there's a lot of flaws here in the law. And that's what I've been talking about before. The law is very raw. But the most terrible thing that I thought was just what my colleague Cibenko said about us stopping this law in some way from doing the raiders, so that's just the opposite. The law allows shareholders to enter one percent and make life for the major shareholders so that they are happy to sell or buy that one percent for the money that the raider wants. Dear friends, I very much hope that we are taking this matter seriously. Because I think the people who made up this law were very concerned about protecting the interests of the minority shareholder, and they worked so hard that they danced together with the water from the baby's tub. It is important to bear in mind that the main shareholder is still the natural person who carries the main generation. We know perfectly well, yes, there was talk of predatory seizures, of wild privatization. Let's forget about it. Okay. Let's understand that we are now at this stage, after which we need to. Let's say, effective owners and the time has come, in fact, to take business recovery seriously. It is not a secret that, if not half, a third of these enterprises are still on the side. If we now weaken the position of the main shareholder by acting in good faith, we will not be able to come, we will receive much success and much benefit from this law. I repeat. The law is very raw. I very much hope that serious work will be done between the first and the second readings. But on the other hand, of course, without that law, too. So, personally, I am going to vote in favour of the first reading, and I very much hope that we will finalize this law seriously.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u37	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think I'll be wrong about the truth when I tell you that there's been a professional conversation about this document. And the general logic of the discussion is that in view of what we have, in principle, the period of stockpiling of the original capital has ended. We should, on the one hand, allow shareholders who are responsible for the control package, who are responsible for the production, to work openly, boldly, not to be afraid to take responsibility, not to be afraid to take risks to improve production efficiency. On the other hand, to hit hands with those who would like to take advantage of the raids and take possession of the enterprise, to take possession of property, land, and other items of property on one or the other. And also, this goes through the whole law with a red thread, you don't have to forget those minority owners who don't actually count on anything, just dividends from this production. And they were simply forgotten in many cases when stock companies were formed. Unless they mention when congregations need to be held or something else. Thus, this concern and these interests are evident. And you have to write this balance so that you can ensure both the efficiency of production, and the guarantees for the owner or the investor, and the guarantees for those who don't claim to do so, but there's one, two or a dozen shares in this company. I'd like us to work on that, but the way to do that is through procedure. And the procedure for adopting the law in the first reading continues to work on it until the second reading. We'll need it, we'll work on it, we can send it back to the second reading at the end. But let's hope, and all the deputies, especially those who are involved in this committee's work, and here the committee should work very seriously, and those who are engaged in business, entrepreneurship, in stock companies, will examine the content of this law, and certainly the state authorities and the Securities Commission, and the State Property Fund will work on it. We need to prepare a quality document. So I'm going to put this project to a vote in the first reading. Please support him. Please. [[11:53:18]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you. This is, I want to emphasize, one of the most complex laws that we're adopting here in the Supreme Council. The draft of Law 2181 is being considered, this is the project on making changes to article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports, which is proposed by the President of Ukraine. And this is where Safiulin Rafil Isafovich reports, please, the deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u38	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues present! On 25 March this year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a law amending article 29 of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports. The substance of the amendment was as follows. First, it was proposed to prohibit the closure and re-profiling of physical culture and sport institutions, Olympic and Paralympic training bases, physical and health facilities, treatment and physical institutions other than those in private ownership. Secondly, it was suggested that such institutions could be closed only if there was appropriate agreement with the central executive body on physical culture and sport. The President's proposals are summarized as follows. The word “closure” should be replaced by the word “disposal” and delete part 7 of that article, which was proposed to allow the closure of sports institutions in consultation with the professional ministry. The Committee, at its meeting, considered these proposals, agreed with them and decided to adopt the bill as a whole, which I ask you to support. All of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u39	No questions to the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. I mean, the committee's offering to supplement it. Not to be completed, to take into account the President's remarks and to vote on the law, taking into account the President's reasoning. No objections? I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:55:42]] For 251 Decision taken. Thank you. On my way back, if you'll excuse me, to the previous law that we voted for the committee, Vladimir Mikhailovich, please. You go to the representatives of the opposition who are working on this committee and to the others who are involved in this area more or less through the electorate, let them work on this document too, if not on the committee, in an individual order, but should give their reasoning so that they don't complain that their opinion is not taken into account. The Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies on the Reduction of the Quorum of the General Assembly of the Economic Society is being considered, with proposals from the President. Europeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich reports, head of the committee of profile. You remember this law, 1129. He's so notorious, unfortunately, we have him. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u40	I would like to remind all of us, colleagues, that Bill 1129 has been tabled twice in this room and has been considered. Both times it was dedicated to the President of Ukraine. For the first time, he was asked to amend it, after which we amended the bill, adopted it for the second time, and sent it back to the President. And he dedicated it again, the bill. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy, at its meeting on 7 February, decided to recommend its rejection. In addition, the Committee, in making such a decision, was also guided by the fact that today we will consider another bill, 2526. They are virtually identical, and the committee will therefore support the second new bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u41	I see. You might want to remind yourself that these standards can be written in part or much of the project that we have just adopted in the first reading, the Shareholder Associations, and we can also regulate that law. There was an offer to support the President. And since we are in contact with him, I feel that there is no doubt that we need to support him. And the committee supports that. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. [[11:58:30.]] For 244 Decision taken. There's a break for half an hour, please. Half an hour's break, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u42	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies, registration number 2526, is under consideration. He'll report. I can't see the author. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Mr. Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please. Mr. Matvienkov's bill, but, as you know, he's now engaged in a working group on the draft legislation. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u43	This bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy on 25 April this year. It is very simple: to amend a number of provisions of the Act on Economic Communities and to resolve the question of convening a meeting of shareholders or convening a meeting of the founders of the OAS by reducing the quorum at a reconvened meeting. That is, if the law provides for a mandatory quorum at the first assembly, which is at least 60 per cent, more than 60 per cent of the participants, then at the second meeting, convened again, due to the lack of quorum on the first, such a plan is reduced to 50 per cent of the participants. The Committee has considered the bill and proposes that it be adopted. To your attention, this bill supports the Cabinet of Ministers, and there is the conclusion of the Chief Expert Office. The Chief Expert Office, drawing attention to only one word which, in their view, is not entirely legal, is the word “plan” so-called, and concludes that it is to be re-examined.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u44	Yes, are there any questions? Sign up. Yes, there are no questions asked. Who wants to participate in the discussion, please record from the factions. Yes, and one of the deputies. Then please, Cibenko Peter, the Communist faction. Get ready for Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u45	Thank you, Reverend Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that, in fact, the topic that we started with the previous bill on recess, it is now continuing to consider the bill, the changes to the law. I'd like to say that even though it seems like we're trying, let's say, to play by the same rules when there's a group of shareholders going on, let's say, for once and for all, but nevertheless, I'm absolutely convinced that the decision that's being proposed needs to be made, because it's also a step in the right direction, trying to dispel the complex situation around the societies that are being formed today. So I'm absolutely convinced and I want to call on all my fellow national MPs on behalf of the faction and vote in favour of this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u46	Please, John Bondarchuk, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u47	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. Our faction, because, in addition to everything else, our colleague Sergey Matvienkov is the author of this bill, will support it, support this bill in the first reading. However, we believe that according to the proposed changes, the general congregations will be determined by the participation of shareholders, participants or their legal representatives, who have more than 50 percent of the votes in accordance with the Society’s statute, if the general general general meeting is not held because of the lack of participation of the required number of shareholders. Today, the law provides for a need for at least 60 percent of the total congregation to be present, and under certain conditions this allows for the blocking of the holding of recongregation congregations. So in line with the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council, we propose to support this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u48	Thank you. Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. We're going to have to define ourselves. In fact, you and I have just spoken about a bill on which the President's veto has been imposed and we have come to the conclusion that we will have to address the problem that we spoke about in the bill. I'd like the committee to take into account the scientific and expert management's proposals before the second reading. And I think it's not a lot of work, and we can think of it as a bill in the near future. I now put to the vote a proposal for a committee to adopt as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 2526 amending the Ukrainian Law on Economic Society. Please vote. [[12:38:17]] For 231 The bill was adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Environmental Expertise Act is under consideration. [[on the empowerment of the public and the listing of environmental expertise]] Bill 2313's registration number will be reported by the author of the Blue Alexander Volodymyrovich initiative, please prepare for the committee of Kovtunko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u49	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! According to the drafters, Ukraine's Act on Environmental Expertise does not sufficiently ensure the effectiveness of State environmental expertise, leaving a wide range of activities and facilities that pose an increased environmental risk. It limits public participation and its impact on the process of making environmentally important decisions, violating the constitutional rights of citizens to life in an environmentally friendly environment. There are differences with international legal instruments. The bill is aimed at increasing the public’s authority to expand and clarify the list of environmental experts. It contains individual changes to individual articles of the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Expertise, its main positions are the following. The definition of environmental expertise is expanding, its principles and tasks are increasing, the public’s ability to obtain information about the process and the results of state environmental expertise is increasing. With regard to the impact on entry and the results of environmental expertise. A detailed list of activities and objects that constitute or may potentially pose an increased environmental hazard, for which it is mandatory to conduct state environmental expertise. The work on environmental expertise is regulated today by the Ukrainian Act on Environmental Expertise and a list of activities and objects that constitute an increased environmental hazard that is confirmed by the Cabinet of Ukraine. The adoption of Ukraine's Act amending Ukraine's Environmental Expertise Act does not require additional material or other costs. And the developers got a good look at the proposals, and the conclusion that made the Main Scientific and Experimental Administration agreed with the comments made by the specialists in this office and were ready to correct those, and to make those remarks that were made by our scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u50	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. From the profile committee, who's ready to inform? Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Please write from the faction. Yeah, from the deputies? Yes, nine minutes, please, Melnik Peter Volodymyrovich. Please be prepared, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u51	Peter Melnik, faction of regions. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! The project provides for clarification in article 1 of the Ukrainian Environmental Expertise Act on the concept of “environmental expertise” in accordance with article 7 of this Act. In particular, draft legislation and other legislation. In addition, the draft law proposes to expand the composition of the principles of environmental expertise by introducing public participation in environmental expertise and establishing the responsibility of environmental experts and stakeholders for the organization, conduct and quality of environmental expertise. The project is aimed at creating and ensuring public participation in environmental expertise in environmental security, environmental protection, rational use and management of natural resources, protection of environmental rights and interests in citizens of the State. The bill does not provide for the introduction or modification of existing mechanisms, the determination of tax obligations for natural resources payments, nor does it provide for the introduction of new or changing existing procedures for the management of specified groups and payments. However, since the results of environmental expertise often form the basis for determining the size of the tax facility, such as the use of natural resources for waste disposal, we believe that regulation of the rules of liability, including through the involvement of public experts, will contribute to transparency and clarity in determining the size of tax liabilities for natural resources. In view of the above, the project under consideration is supported as a means of ensuring transparency and clarity in determining the size of the natural resources tax liabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u52	Thank you, Peter Volodymyrovich, please, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, microphone from the place to prepare Chechtov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u53	Thank you. The Communist faction is the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues! You know, I've noticed that representatives haven't come out of the profile committee to protect the committee's opinion on this bill. Probably not exactly that in the case that's left, I'm saying that the head of the profile committee never works in the Supreme Council is now on the barricades with the interests of Ukrainian citizens. But I'm surprised, even, at the conclusion of the profile committee on not supporting the bill. I'm stressing that this is about environmental expertise on the things that today in Ukraine, as in any and all of the world, are gaining special publicity. So I am absolutely convinced that we must make progress in this direction. You and I are both witnesses and eyewitnesses of the fact that it was no longer a once - in - a - lifetime achievement of victory where there were questionable decisions. And Ukrainian citizens, feeling unprotected in the legislative field, are already working together to protect their interests, their rights, including from an ecological point of view. So even though there are certain doubts about the acceptance of this document in the first reading, even though there are certain differences in this document, for example. However, I am absolutely convinced that since we are in the first reading stage, we are de facto expressing our view of the very idea of environmental expertise, of increasing it, of a wider public participation in these issues. I think this idea itself should be supported in every way. And so I am absolutely convinced that even though there are some warnings about this document and some duplication with the existing document, I am absolutely convinced that it should be accepted in the first reading. And in the stage of preparation for second reading, to work out those doubts, to take away the contradictions that really exist today. So on behalf of the Communist faction, I'm going to suggest that we accept this document in the first reading, first of all, in order to move forward on these issues, because today we can reject the bill, actually, but we need to understand that we're just wasting time in this case and not solving the problems that we have today as a matter of urgency. Thus, the Communist faction considers it necessary to support this draft law with its subsequent development at the second reading stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u54	Thank you, please, Michael Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u55	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Honorable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, is designed to define the ecological expertise, its basic tasks and principles, the forms of public participation in environmental expertise, the activities of objects subject to mandatory state expertise. At the same time, part of the proposed changes duplicates the position of the current Ukrainian Environmental Expertise Act. This is particularly true of the provisions on public participation in environmental expertise and public opinion. This is provided for in articles 10, 11, 12 and 16 of the law in force. Ensuring the reliability and completeness of information, as well as the responsibility of environmental experts, is provided for in article 50 of the Act. Relevant to subjects of environmental expertise in legislative and other legal acts, this is provided for in articles 7 and 14 of the law in force. I consider it inappropriate to include directly in the law a list of activities and objects that may potentially constitute an increased environmental hazard, which may be complemented by a specially authorized central executive body, paragraph 6 of section 1 of the project. This list is better included in activities and objects that constitute an increased environmental hazard, which, in accordance with article 13, part 3, of the Law on Environmental Expertise, is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the submission of a special authorized central executive body. In view of all of this, I propose that we re-read this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Various suggestions have been made. I first propose to adopt Bill No. 23!No to amend the Ukrainian Law on Environmental Expertise on the Authorisation of the Public and List of Objects of Environmental Expertise as the basis for the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:49:59]] For-38 The offer is not supported. It was suggested that the bill should be re-readed. Please vote. [[12:50:24]] For 228 Decision taken. The bill is aimed at re-reading the first reading, at re-producing the authors. For the work of the authors. A draft Act amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 3024, author of the initiative, Taras Crnrowil. [[concerning the creation of self-sustainment units]] Please. From the committee to prepare for the Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u57	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This is a very simple and short bill that actually regulates the current standards of the Education Act. The Education Act sets out a number of provisions according to which institutions, national institutions of higher education have the right to form their respective branches, determine also the status of the capacity of accounting organisations, etc. However, there is no clear wording in a specific article concerning direct financial security and accounting work in higher education, no clear provision has been made regarding the possibility of higher education institutions that have the status of “national” to create appropriate branches that have the right to self-sustainment and self-sustainment. As a result, in fact, every year higher national, higher education institutions that have national status have colossal problems, since such branches already exist and work at most national institutions and constantly block their accounts, stop work constantly, and after 3-4 months work resumes normally. But in parallel there is another problem, and it has already become available in individual higher education institutions in Ukraine, when, in fact, having the right to create them according to the plentiful other provisions of the Higher Education Act, those institutions do not have the limitations laid down in part 3 of the 65th article of the Higher Education Act, which defines the situation that cannot be determined by accounting operations, financially paying operations to raise those who are foreseen and financed from the State budget as directly without pay for education and so on. And such violations as would not be, on the one hand, to prevent the terrorization and obstruction of activities of higher education institutions that have “national” status, on the other hand, so that there would not be a certain smorgasbord and financial discipline violations and the introduction of legally unlawful student fees, etc., in institutions that are branches of higher national institutions and that it was suggested that this paragraph of the law should be taken into account clearly and that the contradictions that exist should be removed. This paragraph, introduced into the law, will contribute, among other things, to a certain de-commercialization of higher education institutions such as these, because it brings out paid services that are not directly related to the educational process, the basic educational process, outside the boundaries of higher education institutions with national status. And it takes away this problem when the overall form of paid learning was growing and increasing those percentages with total violations of Ukrainian laws and the Constitution. On the other hand, once again, this allows higher education institutions to create an appropriate financial base and to provide a range of additional things, such as pre-primary training, additional second higher education, plus an additional edition of teaching, teaching and science literature and so on. Removes a series of contradictions and problems. In this regard, it is suggested that this regulatory, clarifying, but totally not new to this law in the sixty - fifth article, where the mechanism itself should be clearly written. This issue was addressed in a relevant science and education committee, and it was supported. The Ministry of Science and Education, which had previously been called upon, opposed to a similar law, today supported it. Because this bill, which I am introducing, clearly states that this applies only to higher education institutions that have national status. And these questionable universities, the questionable institutions that are multiplying across Ukraine's branches, are in principle not subject to it, are subject to really powerful institutions where education is conducted at the highest level and where there is no doubt about the possibility of carrying out appropriate control and auditing. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. With regard to another conclusion of the scientific and expert office, it generally supports, only says that it is necessary to write down the status of accounting institutions. I totally agree with that. But this is not the prerogative of the Supreme Council. This is the prerogative of the Ministry of Science and Education, which must do so. This is supported by the committee before the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u58	Thank you. Will there be questions? Bogchuk wants to ask. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u59	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I generally support that we today need to improve, increase, regulate the allocation of additional funds from different sources of funding, scientific and methodical activities, and improve the training and training of our specialists. But with the adoption of this bill, we're here limiting, creating a monopoly, because somewhere there are limits to the rights of higher education institutions that have a better scientific base, a better methodical base. There's some experience in retraining, preparing our specialists here. It's better to do that, to give status not only to national institutions, but to all higher education institutions. And shouldn't we call here the list of these services that should be ours, according to our bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u60	As for the first position. I don't mind that, but there were serious warnings from the Minister of Science and Education of Mr. Nicholas and I, absolutely, agree here that at least before the first reading it would hardly be worth changing. We need to have a discussion with the Ministry of Education. If I were to make it clear that it's the state, maybe in the second reading we would do that, but I would like the Ministry of Science and Education to say the same thing about that. So here I'm going to have to say the final thought. As far as the list of these services is concerned. Part of them are clearly prescribed in the law, some of them are approved by a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers and the corresponding positions that will be approved by the Ministry of Science and Education. I mean, there's something else in this article that you don't have to put directly. I say again, the very essence of all of these services is very clearly defined in the law, but they're scattered across different articles and they don't allow you to function directly like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u61	Please, Falco Volodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u62	Please tell me, will we not produce a network of affiliates if they then switch to the bank account?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u63	No, for one reason, this bill applies: First of all, the higher educational institutions of Ukraine, which have national status. It's very limited. And the second. All of them already have such accounting facilities. They are all functioning, but since they do not have a very rigid, clearly prescribed precedent for them, an adequate article, which should determine the functioning of the accounting offices and branch offices, is coming out of a certain point of separation, from the state control institutions, is on the part of the highest educational institutions that try to promote what is prohibited by the third part of the 65th article, the normal planological training process. Today, there are such precedents. And I think that when we adopt this law, we sort of regulate it, we limit it, and we don't allow these abuses, which are also occurring. But to prohibit this means that the Higher Education Act itself needs to be fully copied, because it actually provides for this, and this is a union with the sadness of the four articles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u64	Please. No, you know, when you ask, you don't have hands when. An appetite comes when you eat, I see. So let's do it, or raise your hands, and then I'll be able to point out that we have to do the recording, or-or-or. Yes, please, Sulkowski, I can't get around. Please, Sulkowski. Then Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u65	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I want to say that our faction will support this bill only because we know that this issue has been raised a long time ago and in the fourth time, but it has not been resolved. And so today I would like to thank the personal reporter, the author of Mr. Taras Blackwall, for seeing even from his speech that there was no discussion on both the committee and the committee before the first reading. So I think and please, and the Ministry has agreed to education, we need to take it as a basis for the first reading today, and we need to work out all of these proposals that are being made in the parliamentary room today, and the Bureau of Experts is making some amendments. And I think it will be a full law that will benefit Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u66	And thank you, Paul Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u67	I just want to point out here, in fact, that in the past convening failed to accept it because of what was written about all the higher education institutions. We have a number of highly questionable higher ones, and the Ministry of Science and Education has therefore protested against acceptance. Now that question has been removed. As for questions that can be brought to second reading, it's an addition, say, to the Final Positions, to assign the Cabinet of Ministers within a three-month period to accept the position of appropriate accounting branches and discussion with the Ministry of Education, whether it's worth spreading at all to all state higher education institutions or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u68	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u69	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Your Honor, I have no doubt, in fact, that by passing this bill, you want it as well. But I have some concerns about how sometimes our intentions work out as well. Why am I talking about this? In my time as a member of the Committee on Science and Education, a certain part of the Rectors have failed, directly speaking, in the law on the recruitment of students from. at a non-budgetary cost. And as soon as we had him. This piece of legislation has been in this situation for several years, a really extreme situation where it was virtually impossible to enter at the expense of the budget. Now we've gone away, we've captured this situation, specifically. But I repeat the question, will it not always be the case with this law when they wanted it to be better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u70	I'm going to tell you right now that it's not going to happen here in this case, because he's also called upon to contribute to a certain de-commercialization of the higher education institutions themselves, which provide basic higher education. This is reflected in paragraphs already listed, including the Higher Education Act. It's a douzian training, it's a second higher education, it's an extra textbook, and so on, it's a publishing activity, when it can be done, and it can be done outside the university itself, and it's commercialized to an absolute extreme. That's the first problem. And the second particularly important task is to put these already existing accounting branches into law, because the third part of the 65th article is not spreading to them today, unfortunately, somewhere in fact. In no case should we oblige them to pay for services already funded from the state or from local budgets. This is a clear formulation of the third article, just by adopting this law we're introducing really existing, but on the verge of the law of the organization, really, into the legislative field, just in the part that I think your faction was insisting that it be fixed in the 65th article, and now we're extending it to these very computational structures.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u71	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the committee, Lutsky I can't see, Sadowy. Yes, please, who wants to participate in the discussion, please register with the factions. Yes, from the MPs, if they're willing. Yes, please, 9 minutes, Bondarczuk, Chechchev to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, revered Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnitzkin. It is well known that higher education institutions given the status of national apriorists, or by definition, should be a flag of higher education. In most cases, it is. Because in addition to the teaching process, they run a lot of scientific, scientific, publishing, etc. This work requires additional funding, additional and serious funds. Budget funding is not always possible and is not always sufficient. Therefore, it is logical and appropriate to give these institutions, primarily the right to conduct some accounting activity, the opportunity to make some of the money themselves. This rule needs to be fixed, as it were, or it needs to be normalized. As for everyone, I think it's still premature, it means all higher education institutions, because let's first give rights to those of them who have national status, let's see how this rule works, and then we can distribute it to all state higher education institutions. I know and I see that this is not about transferring students on a paid basis, because we have to go consistently to the implementation of article 53 of the Constitution of Ukraine on ensuring that all types of people in public institutions are able to learn on a free basis, but if someone wants to receive a second education or that, to receive other services, we should not be ashamed of being able to provide these services and at the same time make money for development, to strengthen the educational and material base of the national educational institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u73	Thank you. Please, Chechet's Mikhail.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u74	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to supplement article 65 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act with a new part that can be envisaged for the provision of higher education services, higher education institutions that have national status can create self-accounting units. I note the need for a more precise definition of the legal status of the self-declaration units. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education, at its meeting, decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be considered in the first reading and adopted as a basis. I also propose to support the opinion of the committee of profile and to support the bill of National MP Taras Crnovol, adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u75	Thank you. Please, Bogchuk Vasil. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u76	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. In general, I support this bill. I think we need to create accounting units and allow ourselves to engage in a work that will improve the production of scientific literature, methodical literature, and retraining of our personnel. But we still have to figure out what criteria we're going to use to create self-accounting units. Is there any place where, by giving such a right to a university that has a national status, we will not give birth to another monopoly again? Because today there are many higher public educational institutions that have a serious scientific base that have a serious preparatory base, have a serious publishing base and are already doing this work on this basis. So they have everything, but they don't have national status today. I mean, what do they do? Will we not close the possibility of working in this direction for those who have been working for many years in this direction? So I think we need to re-examine, expand and still write down what to give all the higher education institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u77	Thank you. I just think that this is how we encourage others to become national, so that they can reach out to get some benefits. So what do you think, no one from the Ministry is? Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We can see that it's not clearly perceived, because there are underwater stones here, especially when we see that allowing is listed in what to allow, and then we write "whatever". So under this “something” they can make something that's not clear what we've allowed them to do. So I'm paying attention to the committee, in preparing for the second reading, to give a more specific indication of the reasons why, so far, those educational institutions that have the national title to create appropriate accounting units. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of Bill No. 3024 amending article 65 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. Please vote. [[13:11:17]] For 255 Decision taken. Here's the Project Act on Strengthening Property Protection for Creative Associations, registration number 3000. Bill of a colleague of Yavorowski. He doesn't represent him. Please, from the committee, the first deputy head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality, Jacob Pinewich Tobacco, who wanted to fight corruption in the field of culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u78	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Professional Creative Workers and Associations, the State provides support and protection for the legitimate rights and interests of creative communities, guarantees the same conditions for them to carry out statutory tasks, goals, and goals, contribute to the development of creative communities and their activities in the creation of national culture and art. According to legislation, the sole competence of local governments is to solve specific problems with the provision of creative aids. Despite the stated support for the activities of creative communities at the national level, the Ukrainian Act on Professional Creative Workers and Creative Associations, Presidential decrees, regulations and regulations of the government, local government authorities and local self-government authorities often do not contribute to the proper legal and social protection of creative workers, the preservation and development of the existing network of cultural and artistic institutions and organizations. In accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’ decree of July 10, 1998, the number 1058 creative associations should be transferred to property or to the permanent use of immovable property, which, on August 24, 1991, was in the knowledge of the creative communities of the former Soviet Union or in the possession or use of relevant republican or territorial structures. But the provisions of this decree are only partially fulfilled. The authorities of local self - government do not rush to transfer to the creative communities of Ukraine property or to the permanent use of the buildings and buildings they use and which are communal property. Legislation also recommends that local public administrations facilitate the allocation of individual workshops, studios and salaries to members of creative associations for the use of municipal services at the tariffs set for the population. Regrettably, however, the authorities often compare creative workers to financial and economic entities that use designated premises for profit purposes and force artists to make cable contracts with local self-government authorities or even refuse to continue the lease agreement at all. Then a room in which, for example, there was an art workshop goes into use or becomes the property of a commercial structure. The Committee on Culture and Spirituality believes that unspoken measures should be taken to address the problems of creative workers, filling the specific content of the legislative guidelines for the protection of the property of creative communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u79	Thank you, Jacob Pinewich. Any questions? None. Please sit down and be very confident. If you want to participate in the discussion, sign up for the factions. People's deputies. Yes, Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk will speak for everyone. Microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u80	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues, I think we will definitely support this draft decision because it is aimed at strengthening the protection of the property of the creative communities of Ukraine, and in this way we will demonstrate respect, and attention, to this spiritual sphere of our activity. I would just like to point out that, unfortunately, the drafter does not have this decision, he is running and not doing what he has to do, the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. But we still have to support this draft decision, be higher, because this document is necessary to support our culture. At the same time, I would like to take this opportunity to say that the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, while the Committee's head is running and not doing what he should be doing, has asked the Government with well-founded proposals to raise wages for all cultural and artistic workers or workers, i.e. to eliminate the situation where 13 percent of cult workers work part-time on 0.25, 0.5, 0.75 rates, i.e. to give everyone a full-time wage on 1 July or 1 August. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Dear colleagues, you can make a decision, it won't hurt. But look what it says: recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers make changes to the laws. Thus, one who recommends that the Cabinet of Ministers amend the laws has the same right to amend the laws as the Cabinet of Ministers. That is, instead of sitting down and making changes to the laws, he writes a decree, let someone do it for him. It's just a habit of talking, and let someone do it. So the author could have made some changes, he'd better see what changes he needs to make, because if we gave the Cabinet of Ministers this commission, then the Cabinet of Ministers would have to consult the author with someone else: and what changes do you want? It was easier or easier for the author, and more productively, to make these changes and vote, as it were, and to take these changes into account. I emphasize once again neither the benefits nor the hardship of accepting such a decision. I'm just pointing out that we're producing drafts without thinking about what we're writing there. That's why I, my esteemed colleagues, in view of what I've said, am putting to the vote a motion for a ruling of 3,000 on strengthening the protection of property of creative communities in Ukraine. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:20:05]] For 208 They don't make a decision. But once again, dear colleagues, see: “Recommend the Cabinet of Ministers to prepare proposals. To recommend to the district councils of Kiev and Sevastopol to comply with the ruling.” We can't recommend them to comply with the ruling, it's up to the court to see why the Cabinet of Ministers' ruling is not being carried out. And the same thing is to recommend to Kiev City Councils. So let's do it this way. James Phinehas, please, the Smoker microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u82	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the point is that right or wrong is already the second category. But those who are artists today are creative people, and they are not better off. So, please, there's a young generation growing up who can't afford to buy studios that can't find themselves a room to carry out their creative plans to date. We must support, I believe, regardless of what was correctly written on the committee or wrong. Because it's not the committee of ours, it's not the accounts today, it's the creative people who are completely unprotected in this country because they're not doing business or business. And I'm asking you to back me up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-15-m0.u83	James Phinehas, you speak quite correctly, but listen once again to what I said before. I'm not accusing the committee, I'm accusing the author of recommending the Cabinet of Ministers to amend the Law. The author of Yavorowski has exactly the same right as the Cabinet of Ministers to make these changes, and that would be much faster and more effective. Because as long as we take a decision, as long as the Cabinet of Ministers responds to our recommendation and may not respond, this is the right of the Cabinet of Ministers, then the author of Yavorowski could make these changes himself to the session room and we would support them. That's the question. But in this context, I propose, let's support this decision, which, once again, I emphasize neither harm nor harm. Let's vote. Vote. Vote, please. [[13:22:48]] For 221 Let's see the factions. Yes, dear fellows, calm down. Put your hands down, get ready to vote. Let's support this determination. Who's in favour of voting, please vote. [[13:23:31]] For 237 For 23rd, calmly, don’t relax, we voted to vote. Now, who is in favour of a decision No. 3000 on strengthening the protection of property of creative communities in Ukraine, please vote. [[13:24:00]] For 234 Copy that. Dear colleagues, I sincerely want to say that thanks to the insistence of the First Vice-Chairman of the Committee on the Culture of the Fellow Tobacco, we have done what we should do in principle, and should not have done, but only because of the insistence of Jacob Phinewich. Dear colleagues, we have implemented today's plan with you. I'd like to keep working on the committees, that's one thing. The other one. I would like to remind you once again that tomorrow at 12:30 in this session hall, we will hold an expanded meeting of the Coordinating Council at the Head of the Supreme Council on local self-government, where all the heads of the district councils, members of the council, and we invite the heads of the major cities, the mayors of cities, to discuss the problems involved in amending the Constitution on strengthening the role of local self-government. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Next up, work on committees and factions, starting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good luck.
