ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m0.u1	I'm asking for your attention! Good morning, distinguished deputies of Ukraine, guests of the Supreme Council! Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the Fifth Council and all those present in the Hall, to welcome you with the election of the National Deputies, to wish you fruitful work in the sole legislative body of the State, the supreme representative body of the Ukrainian people. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies have to take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. Prime Minister Viktor Fedorović Janukovic and members of the Cabinet of Ministers arrived for the ceremony. There are former heads of state and the Supreme Council of Ukraine, former heads of government (Opl en c i), deputies of past appeals, leaders of the Central Electoral Commission, the head and judge of the Constitutional Court, the leadership of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, the Attorney-General, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, the head of the Court of Auditors, the heads of district councils, representatives of the diplomatic corps, religious denominations, the media. In accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite you to the rostrum of the oldest elected national deputy of Ukraine, Hero of Ukraine, John Alexanderovich, to read the text of the oath. To make an oath, I ask the national MPs to stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m0.u2	Oath: “ I pledge allegiance to Ukraine. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence by all my actions, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I pledge to abide by the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all the countrymen.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m0.u3	Thank you, Ivan Alexandrovich, sit down. Dear National Deputies! For the ceremony of signing the text of the oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies, two hours are spent at the suggestion of the Preparatory MP. The act of signing an oath by each of the people’s deputies takes place in the third - floor towers. There, those who wish may be photographed at this event. After signing the text of the oath you make it on the second floor at the registration tables, you get ballot cards and register for the first plenary session of the Sixth Council, which will begin at 12 o'clock in this room. The preparatory parliamentary group will generalize the outcome of the oath and report to you before the opening of the first plenary session. I declare the solemn assembly closed by the National Deputies of Ukraine.
