ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, other participants in meetings, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, June 13, Wednesday. Members of parliament sit in places, insert cards, prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:24]] There are 268 national deputies registered, and the morning session is open. Today is the birthday of the missing Kamchatny deputy. Let's welcome him on his birthday. [[Applause]] We wish you success and understanding of the importance of Parliament's work. In the meantime, according to the decision and the standard today, there are half an hour for the statements of authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, statements, statements, speeches by national deputies. Please register with factions representatives. Now in individual order. Malinowski? Please, let's go. After him, Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Last day went by for Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka, perhaps in a nervous environment. Mr. Yushchenko thought about politics at this level, so I felt as if he were preparing to speak on this topic at the "Camedi Club". Yushchenko appealed to Parliament for not stopping his work, for urging him to close the meetings. Well, you'll have to remind Victor Andryovich if he forgot when he was a deputy himself, and he's not familiar with 90 articles of the Constitution, that the work of the Supreme Council under the basic law ends only after the election of the new parliament. So you don't have to be so nervous, Victor Andryovich, you think you're a guarantor of the Constitution and the laws. Don't forget that, please. The expression of the first person in the bank is a powerful example of political humor. I quote the guarantor: “These daily statements, namely, the Ukrainian Parliament, are disorienting political life, political order in society.” End of quote. Victor Andryovich, it is impossible to disorganize political life in society with statements. Unresponsible provocateurs disrupt the political life and life of society by issuing illegal decrees, destroying the judicial system, sending 18 - year - olds to Kiev, and taking over the Henprocuratorium. And this whole disorganization is going from yours to that agreement. If Viktor Andriyovich had not ordered his surroundings and had not issued illegal papers on the resignations of the judges of the Constitutional Court and the courts of general jurisdiction, political life would now flow within the constitutional framework and all issues would be settled in the courts. From jealousy to pianists in Banks, Goebbels may be turning into a household. I cannot help but quote another revelation, which Victor Yashchenka apparently pointed out yesterday, quote: “We all need to build up a political conscience, not to abuse the nation and to make arrangements.” Victor Andryovich, it's a shame that you don't personally think about political conscience when you sign non-constitutional orders for the subordination of the internal forces of the President's Secretariat, you provoke a clash in the Henprosecutor's office, contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, you continue to stamp out the decrees that you appoint to administrative office in the courts of the general jurisdiction of your officials, through your appointed officials, to block the work of the Central Electoral Commission. So please do not juggle the words, read paragraph 7 of the joint statement by the Heads of State and stop the illegal pressure on the judicial and law enforcement systems, as well as on the authorities of the State. Also, regarding morality, in 2004 the presidential elections in the second round were declared undemocratic by international observers, since freedom of speech was essentially destroyed in Ukraine. Leonid Kuchma was recognized as an autocrat because he destroyed her. Today, in Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko essentially destroyed the power of the court. In such circumstances, talking about the possibility of legitimate democratic fair elections is to a lesser extent a Pharisee. The exact assessment of Yushchenk's actions is now given by the Western media, which another year, two of them considered Viktor Andryovich to be the guarantor of democracy in Ukraine. This is how the respectable German edition of Frankfurter Roundshaw appreciates the political situation. I quote. “The President acted as an autocrat. Not taking into account the fundamental laws of democracy and the principle of the distribution of power, he dissolved Parliament, put pressure on the Constitutional Court, relieved the Attorney-General and tried to take command of the internal forces completely, as a matter of fact, into his own hands.” I would like to point out that German journalists have expressed their thoughts in full coexistence with the beliefs of many deputies in the session room today. But Mr. Yushchenk is already annoyed by any criticism, no matter what address she's using. Today, Yushchenko hopes to launch Parliament for this reason, tomorrow he will decide to launch the Frankfurter Roundshaw, then the CNN – all who on the ground consider his actions to be examples of the usurpation of power. So please, Victor Andryovich, read the Constitution, and maybe if there's time, and some of the classics, for example, Mikhail Bulgakov. “Sharicism” in politics never leads to good, but only to impeachment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u3	Thank you. Samolikka Katerina Seminovna. She'll be followed by Zvaric instead of Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u4	At the address of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, a statement came from the head of the Company’s District Council of Kirovograd district of Bessonova. I would like to point out to everyone that Bessonov is a member of the Fatherland Party, a member of the BUTU. In her address, she addressed the faction and all the Ukrainian national deputies, and asked us to announce the text of a letter at a session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine so that the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine could be heard by the President of Ukraine, a representative of the opposition party on some of the issues related to the work of BUTU and the work of "Our Ukraine". The laymen and deputies of the district council write of what they represent these political views, they were all set to work constructively with all branches of government, including the executive, despite the fact that the deputies of the past call had already expressed their confidence in the head of the Mohilei regime. At the same time, they turned to him to work together and pull out of the gap the area that is now in the last place in all the figures in the Kirovograd region. The head of the regime was also elected a member of the district council from our Ukraine and from the first days began to destroy local self-government. Neither he nor his faction appeared at a circuit council meeting, but the legal burden continued, the ten courts went through, including a higher administrative court and everything in favor of the district council. But instead of making any conclusions, he continues to destroy local self - rule. And that's because wages don't go up by 40 percent and the debt goes up by 40 percent. Which is self - use of delegated powers, sells out municipal property by forgetting to warn people who work for one or the other enterprises that they are going to be fired and out of work. Thus, indeed, everyone has united around this woman and the Communist Party of Ukraine, the Socialist Party, the Party of Regions and BUIT, except for "Our Ukraine" and have repeated their decision on mistrust. Two-thirds of the deputies of the District Council made this decision, called on the President of Ukraine, but the President of Ukraine is silent, and we know that these are unique cases where people's choice of local self-government is virtually ignored. People are asking us who needs the leaders on whom the President of Ukraine relies, if they do not carry out their direct duties to the electorate, before the inhabitants of the region, the President continues to hold, please excuse me, quote: “This is a waste that is practically working for the collapse of local self-government, to the collapse of our state and ignores the interests of our people.” The MPs come to us and say that we regard this not only as disrespect for us, but for all voters, because it's anti-constitutional. We consider this abnormal state of affairs when a person opposes the community and deserves not the consolidation of all political forces, not the improvement of socio-economic indicators, but the participation in endless trials. And it's all against the backdrop of the endless hypocritical teachings of morality, democracy, the fight against corruption, how close it is to what the President of Ukraine tells us, and in fact it's quite different. The District Council is addressed to us and to the President of Ukraine, Mr President: “Stand aside from the Constitution of Ukraine, do your duty and please release the head of the regime.” And I, from our faction, from the coalition, will tell you not only this head of the reservation, but also those who have been mistrusted before, should do so in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is Zvaric of the Party of Regions, followed by Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u6	Dear colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! Let me announce the address of the Party of Regions to the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine. The Party of Regions expresses concern about the situation that has arisen around the decision-making process for the election to the Supreme Ada Ukraine and around the events of the Central Election Commission of Ukraine. The Party of Regions stresses that political compromise on early elections is an exclusively political decision that does not have sufficient legal and legal basis. But this does not mean that such an important political event as the election to the Supreme Council should take place outside the legal field. However, meetings of the Central Electoral Commission are not held, and the public is poorly informed about the work of this body. A party of regions claims that pressure is being exerted on CFCs, the President issued a decree of 7 June 2007 concerning the President's representative on the Central Election Commission, which greatly expands the mandate of the President's representative to the CBC. The provisions of the decree run counter to certain provisions of the Ukrainian Central Election Commission Act and are a direct intervention in the commission’s activities. In addition, the work of the Head of the Central Electoral Commission, acting alone, is disturbing, with its powers being exceeded. By violating the principles of collegiality, he, without warning the other members of the CLTC, issued orders to secure the regions behind its members and ignored the demands of five members of the commission for its meeting. The Party of Regions understands the danger of breaking down the Central Electoral Commission's work, expresses deep concern about the existence of legal uncertainty in the state. Together with the public, it calls on all branches of government of Ukraine to stop any interference with the activities of the CLTC, preventing illegal, single-minded decisions from being taken to ensure respect for the principles of the rule of law, independence and collegiality in the work of this institution. We ask the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Attorney-General of Ukraine to meet urgently with a view to warning the crisis of the situation that has arisen in the Central Electoral Commission and to ensure the proper organization and holding of successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on the Election of People's Deputies of Ukraine, the other laws of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u7	Please, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u8	National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear colleagues, in his comment on the intention of constructively appointed national deputies from the BUT faction to continue to work in Parliament, former deputy director of this faction, Alexander Turchinov recommended that a traitors club be organized by such deputies. He said nothing new because he stopped thinking a long time ago but to use hard prints, to hang tags. The most popular of these labels is the “traitor”. We socialists have been through this, and so will you, dear colleagues. In doing so, the Turks once again demonstrated the totalitarian nature of the ideology of their party, which is based on the aggressive self - centeredness of its leader. But the period when the slogan “not with us ” was actively used, our society was also going through and followers would have to draw the right conclusions. Thankfully, Turkey is not God’s governor in Ukraine but is merely a pastor and co-existence with the Deputy Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council. As a minister who is to be a mediator between God and his fellow believers, the Turk should call for tolerance, tolerance, respect for the other person, for the harmony of society. The question arises as to what church he represents, whether she authorized him to conduct himself so aggressively, and whether he could be a pastor in general, practicing aggressive ideology, for he is objectively defaming his religion. Yet let him go mad, do it, do it for us, do it for the coalitions, and the opposition that is formed in Parliament on civilized principles, because, in large account, time and people are already putting everything in place. And one more thing. I have a request to my fellow journalists. Today you will be invited to the President's next press conference, which. The American manner will pass in the court of the Presidential Secretariat. Remember, there's a beach near the White House in Washington. Please tell the President that the Supreme Council is working on the basis of the Constitution of Ukraine and that the head of state should not demonstrate whether he is ignorant or disrespectful of the basic law, at least on the eve of the State Day of the same Constitution. As for dembilions, let's leave these analogys on his conscience. Because with regard to Mr. President's understanding of the role of the Constitution in the state, in the life of the state and society, at least as he demonstrates it, in the army of salags, I emphasize, the salags of the military statutes know better than our President's basic law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u9	Taras Cranville, behind him is Savosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u10	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, fellow national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! I wanted to make part of my statement to our President Victor Yushchenk first yesterday. You know, I changed my mind at the last second because I think it's hard to comment on them and it's a little awkward. I'm ashamed when the president of Ukraine, the president of the great European state, in his own language, goes not only down to absolute legal nihilism, but also allows for the use of jargon, sorry, maybe not as much banditry as just street-bossian. It's embarrassing for Ukraine and I'm asking just the President if he hears it one day, but still a little bit to correct words, to correct the vocabulary and not to embarrass the state. I'd like to mention another statement yesterday, because, you know, as in Shevchenka's, the gentleman stuck it in someone's mouth -- and then they went and followed, and there were heels and heels. Yesterday there was a rather symptomatic statement by a man who was actually supposed to speak very little and very much work, I mean yesterday's statement by Alexander Turchinov. And he went on to raise, threaten, warn, persuade, declare how the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine would be in the electoral period to ensure order in the state and so forth. I want to remind you, the Council of Safety and Defence does not provide anything. It is an advisory body with the President of the State, an organ that can, in extreme circumstances, help to establish contacts between strong structures, but which under no circumstances has an independent exit to the outside that can only respond to events in the country through presidential decrees that are prepared on the basis of the decisions of the ORC and are subject to special, binding consolidation. But there is another nuance associated with this claim. Mr. Turkinov teaches us that we should go to the elections, that we are no longer valid deputies, etc. I would like to quote a specific paragraph from a particular Ukrainian law, the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy, article three, paragraph, part three. “A national deputy appointed to a post that is incompatible with the mandate of a member of the delegation and whose mandate is terminated in accordance with the order established by law shall be admitted to the office not earlier for submission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the application for the appointment of a national deputy of Ukraine.” Alexander Turchinov, I can say this, never before before the Supreme Council of Ukraine have I filed an application for the approval of the Ukrainian national deputy. It comes out of the faction, it doesn't come out of the faction, it doesn't have anything to do with the norm of this law. The president warms up in very important, serious positions of people who, according to a clear norm in the law of Ukraine, had no right to be admitted to that office, even to certain obligations. And I have an appeal to both the leaders of the opposition and the President. Do not translate from a sick person’s head into a healthy person, but obey the laws and fulfill your obligations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u11	Thank you. Instead of Savosin Bagachuk, Vasil Stepanovich is speaking and then Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u12	Vasil Bogchuk, socialist party, Ternopil. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. This is the fourth month that Ukraine has been living in a state of legal discomfort and legal ignorance. Every day you only live to expect other bank officials who have long discredited themselves in the eyes of society to the extent that you wonder how you can not love your people, how you can not love your state, so that when you sit under the highest standards of authority, you can sign such decrees as could only be signed by a little educated grandmother of Parasca, not by the guarantor of the Constitution. I had the honour to present in the constitutional introduction the interests of the people's deputies, who asked the Constitutional Court to declare the President's decree illegal. So he was able to see, from a momentary point of view, the atmosphere of the document that was produced by the Head of State’s Secretariat and did not withstand any legal criticism. Only the subtle walking of people from a well-known group has harmed us to prove to the world: the President of Ukraine plays with fire deeply without thinking about what documents he signs, what steps he takes, listening to the whispers of failed chancellors and failed ministers playing in some form of self-defence. Repealing the President's decree of April 2 by decree of April 26th, and now being rescinded by the third decree of the two previous decrees, the Constitutional Court has established a coalition when it is legally impossible for the head of state to accuse the head of state of violation of the Constitution. But he had every right to do so. However, this fragility of legal pasquills led to the fact that even the same grandmother Parasci had probably come to realize that the condition of Vitti and Julie had begun with banal paranoia. The right hand doesn't know what the left hand does. The instructions on how chain dogs have lied to one another, and the President's Secretariat is so pleased, because now they can't look at the legitimacy of the decrees at all in the Constitutional Court, because they've been bred so much that it's not known which one of them needs to be executed today. One word, not to ensure that the rule of law is not overturned, that the Constitution prevails, but that the divisively divisively divisive. But in what way? By making a new presidential decree, a decree that has no link to any coordinate system. It is not known when it comes into force, when, and by whom. In short, it's a whole lot of rain, it's just a little bit of a morgain.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u13	Thank you. Alexandrovska, behind her is Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, respected media representatives! Very often, voters ask us: Why do orange extremists, with the support of the President, seek to destroy the Supreme Council? What is the reason for being so obstinate, so obsessive? Indeed, everyone understands that the destruction of the Supreme Council entails a threat to the destruction of all parliamentaryism in Ukraine. We have to say that our orange opponents speak frankly about the reasons. And it becomes clear that there is no reason for a simple majority of 301 votes here in Parliament. It is clear from their statements that they have seen the danger of the emergence of 301 people's deputies in the Supreme Council, with a unified position on issues that determine to a large extent Ukraine's development prospects. And that's the question they're very concerned about. What do they see as a danger to themselves? They see a danger to themselves that issues related to the implementation of Ukraine's entry into the Single Economic Area will be resolved; that issues related to the realization of the right of the Russian-speaking population to use their native Russian in all spheres of life of Ukrainian citizens. They see that the challenges of continuing political reform will be addressed. Why are they afraid of this? It is clear that the Single Economic Space is not a myth, it is not a political slogan, it is an economic reality that will help Ukraine to develop, it is a strong economic state, and it means to gain a certain weight in the international arena. This means that Ukraine will not be manipulated, which means that Ukraine will not be seen as a dairy cow, especially for those here today performing functions for the benefit of their overseas masters. They are well aware that the Russian - speaking population is indeed striving for basic things and seeking the right to speak in your mother tongue, the right to be heard in your mother tongue. They do not want it, they want the title nation to be here, and to protect only the title nation in Ukraine, as is being done in the Baltic Republics today. Political reform can no longer be mentioned, much has already been said. They see a threat to political reform, a limitation of the authority of the person who is now placed here alone as a lever of influence on Ukraine, a policy that is once again beneficial to foreign owners here in Ukraine. And for these purposes, for the destruction of the Supreme Council, to prevent the realization of these noble positions, which I have said, they offer us to spend 365 million in extraordinary elections. This is money that can now be used in a more dignified way. In fact, it is money they want to spend not only on satisfying their own immoderate ambitions, but also on preventing those rights of Ukrainian citizens that I have just mentioned from being realized in life.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u15	Bulba Stepanovich. Ah, Santa Claus Illich instead of Bulba. The truth is they're right here and they're on the list, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u16	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. First of all, I'm addressing the President's environment. Of course, from the President's surroundings, they're hearing about the Supreme Council meeting, and they're also writing down analytical evidence, and they're certainly reporting to the President. So I'd like the president to be told what I'm going to say a little bit later. I also refer to the environment of Timoshenko, and to the deputies from BUTU and “Our Ukraine”, who still have a conscience especially before our youth, in front of the student youth. I'm reporting that the Ministry of Education at the initiative of Minister Nicolanek held a student forum a month ago. Students gathered, young people from all parts of our country, and discussed the question: What to do, how to live in a student environment, which hinders, what are the characteristics of the problems that need to be solved? The program of action was properly adopted, and the forum approved the action programme. Two days ago, in the walls of the Supreme Council, the Committee of Science and Education held a “round table” with a student youth. Students from 22 districts have arrived. More than 16 people spoke. There were representatives from six student organizations. It wasn't just any political power of the student community, it was students from all over Ukraine. A deputy minister of education, Shinkaruk, spoke out, all the leaders of six student associations of different kinds. There were national deputies from the coalition, Baranowski, Filindash, and others speaking. But there was no deputy from the BUT faction, since the faction “Our Ukraine”. And they couldn't be, because Julia Volodymyrna and Kirilenko gave them instructions there. What bothers students who are troubled by youth? Young people worry about scholarships, providing free passage, and young people worry that they live in inappropriate dormitories. And they clearly and clearly stated that elections to the Supreme Council were not necessary. They're asking the Supreme Council, all the deputies, the coalition to get these funds allocated for the election to return to the students in order to improve their well-being. So I'm talking to the President again, which requires young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, we've finished, we've used the time to declare applications. I just had a conversation with the President about the work of the Supreme Council. He asked what more needed to be done to the MPs who had written the petitions, the withdrawal from the faction, in order to calm us down? About that, I understand, I explained that what was to be done was provided by the Supreme Council Rules, the Supreme Council Regulation. That is to say that if the deputy wrote a statement of withdrawal from the faction, he would report it to the presiding officer at the meeting so that the one at the next plenary meeting, according to the Supreme Council Order, would announce it in the presence of the deputy. What is there about this, this kind of content statement? This is followed by a legal relationship that is regulated by the decision of the relevant party assembly and that is followed by a procedure provided for by the Law, which does not yet exist but, in principle, the Constitution allows the Central Electoral Commission to give a dot in this sense, saying that it is not possible to replace such a deputy with anyone if there is no one. Or replace it if there's someone. So we see that today, the Central Election Commission, by the efforts of the administration, more faithfully, the President's Secretariat is blocked and not working. And just as the Constitutional Court doesn't work, that is, we're going out on the wrong plane, limiting it to warnings of a wrong nature, and we think that this is what we do in accordance with the Constitution. That will not happen, so once again, I repeat, the procedure will be followed as provided for in the Rules. With regard to the work and decisions of the Central Electoral Commission, more faithfully, the reasoning of the head of the Central Electoral Commission, but that it seemed that the Colosseum had arisen, because the Law on Amendments to the Electoral Law, which was declared valid by that number, had been promulgated since publication, and had been put into effect since, in fact, August of the month. And that's why he can't deal with substitution issues today, because this law doesn't provide for the replacement of deputies. I'd like to explain to a respected lawyer that this is a practice that exists in Ukraine from the beginning, and it refers to many cases of the introduction of laws and the declaration of their validity, and the law of conduct, and the law of the Code of Administrative Justice, and others. Let him raise up legislation and see when the law is declared valid and when it enters into force. What does this mean, for example, for the law amending the electoral law? Today, this law is valid. Today, the Constitutional Court, for example, can assess its position because it is published, but this does not mean that the law is used directly. You can prepare for the application of this law by preparing normative documents, paperwork, drafts of ballot papers and other things defined by the law itself. You can't do that in two months. And this law will enter into force, as defined by the law itself, not earlier than 60 days after its publication and two months before the election is announced. It's an elemental thing. No, they're covered in legal caseuistics, which, by the way, contradicts the essence of law in Ukraine, and they're trying to make what they want real. And once again, I want to say that we're not going to leave it all unresponsive. Yes, by the way, as Victor Andriyovich says in today’s conversation, the rallies were held, and a dot should be placed on that. According to the participants, in many cases instead of gathering parties, the students were gathered simply, which they voted for because it was cheaper. Cheap policy comes out. Children are used to break into power behind their backs. Children decide whether to be a parliament or not, whether to be a single state or not, to be calm or tragic. It's the kids who decide, not the politicians who are responsible. And then, years later, 70 descendants of today’s politicians will shed crocodile tears instead of taking responsibility, giving an assessment to their predecessors, to the cunning predecessors who want to go to heaven on someone else’s skin, while the state pushes to hell. I'd like us to understand clearly what this is all about. It was already in history when elders sent children and then carried flowers years later and respected patriots rather than evaluate those who had done such a tragedy. I think we should take it seriously when big politics is being made and what are the components of this great policy. We're in the process of evaluating different policies today, and one of them called the Supreme Council yesterday, it seems, the dembels that passed their station. I would like us not to be offended by such expressions and by those who make this statement. It's a common kind of euphoric humor from an environment where the mind is measured during the service. [[Applause]] As a former soldier, I can respond with the words: Estimates of hearing from there either out of fear or out of courage, Seems like a demblade, And it turns out it's a joke. With your permission, I will not continue to read because there are more specific grades. So I would like all of us to understand that Parliament today has 272 national deputies registered, working in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules. Once it is revealed that there will be no substitute for MPs who do not want to work in parliament, and there will be no 300 national deputies in Ukraine, then those who remain deputies will carry out their duties under the Constitution before the new deputies are sworn in, after the elections, and if there are 301 deputies or 300 deputies, they will work as the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And there is no power in this regard and the July conventions and the unwillingness to address and complete the procedure provided for by the Rules will help those who want to push the Constitution today to destroy the legal field of Ukraine and thereby establish their unconstitutional rights. Thank you. [[Applause]] Once again, read the Supreme Council’s decree on those who wish to exercise their authority, and according to the requirements of the decree, and the Rules, the procedure will be carried out, and then the procedure will be carried out, there, as you wish. I am not interested in assemblies, and this does not come under the authority of Parliament. Today, registration number 3302, the draft Law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of second-reading distribution agreements, is given on April 12. Reported to the head of the Committee on Economic Policy, George Mikolayovich. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, Bill 3302, sponsored by the People's Deputies of Horoskević and Jaroschuk, our colleagues, adopted on first reading on 12 April this year. After that, a working group was established, including representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, sponsors of the bill and representatives of our committee. And the working group drafted amendments to the bill, taking into account comments made prior to the first reading. These amendments were made to the Committee and were considered by the Committee on 6 May this year. On the Committee, given that this was the agreed position of the entire working group, both the authors, both the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers, were all taken into account. You are therefore given a table showing that all of them are taken into account by the Committee until a single amendment is adopted on second reading. The substance of these amendments can, as it were, be grouped into two groups. The first group, given that the work of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the working group of the Cabinet of Ministers on the establishment of the new Ukrainian Tax Code are currently under way, many amendments to this Act, many of the articles of this Act relating to taxation, were simply excluded by our working group. And the second group of amendments, which was taken into account by the working group and the Committee, confirmed that the amendments relating to the legal and technical aspects had made it cleaner and more correct. In addition, the Cabinet of Ministers submitted additional amendments yesterday, and we considered these amendments with the Cabinet of Ministers as a matter of urgency yesterday, and unfortunately they simply failed to get into the table. They have been agreed by both the Committee and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, but have not been able to reach the table. If you don't mind, I'll read them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u19	I'm asking for your attention. The commentaries, or deputies, who have their own opinions on these amendments or observations, may ask the reporter, please, this is the second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u20	If I may, I will read out the additional amendments made by the Cabinet of Ministers and agreed with the Committee. In particular, the Cabinet proposes and the Committee agrees.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u21	Leo Mikolaiovich, I beg you a minute, Leo Mikolaiovich, quiet down a little bit, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u22	The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council adopt such amendments. Paragraph 2 of the fifth part of article 19 states in a new edition that reads: “The investor’s costs of carrying out the work envisaged by the agreement, which were incurred after the investor’s declaration by the winner of the competition, in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, is the first amendment. The second amendment of the Cabinet of Ministers, agreed with the Committee: "To supplement part five of Article 19 with paragraphs five and six of this content: "Long-term, more than twenty-year contracts may provide for the indexation of compensatory costs from the time they are effected in parts that have not been compensated for the first three years of distribution of produced products. The procedure for the indexation of such costs is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Costs that are not compensable for compensatory products and that are included in the reduction of tax revenue are determined by agreement. Next amendment. It is proposed that the proposed wording of article 25, paragraph 1, of the first part, should replace the words “customs payments with the exception of the customs assembly” with the words “contribution duties”. This amendment is proposed in paragraph 4 of Part 7 of Article 25. That is to say, the words “customs payments, except for the customs assembly” should be replaced by the words “traffic duties”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u23	I'm asking for your attention. Please report separately additional suggestions that did not occur during the discussion in the first reading and in the authorship of the deputies. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u24	It is also proposed that the Cabinet of Ministers should not amend article 1, paragraph 39. It is also proposed that article 185 of the Customs Code of Ukraine Act should not be amended.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u25	Yuri Mikolaiovich, let's go a little bit wrong. We will go according to the second reading procedure, for all the reasoning on this point will not be remembered by the deputies, and in general we will not vote until the law is clearly stated on the amendments. So let's follow this procedure and let's go. But it should be borne in mind that there are very serious references to the legal administration of this law, which relates to deviations from the Constitution and legislation of Ukraine, that is to say. So let's just go over the repairs. What the first amendment requires is the introduction of technical legal rights throughout the text of the law, and I think it does not give rise to any doubt and that is why we don't need to discuss it. Next. The amendment of the second Voropeyeva, which refers to the fact that the Cabinet of Ministers concentrates on some of the powers associated with the use of subcontracting, subcontracting, supply, transportation, and other counterparties involved in the work envisaged by the Contract for the Distribution of Produce on the basis of contracts, contracts with an investor. Who Will Have Reasoning? Is there no objection? This amendment is included. Ivan Bondarchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u26	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear reporter! Well, we're looking at a second-reading bill, but at the same time, the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration is one that can be accepted as a basis for taking into account the comments and suggestions that have been made. I don't understand if the second reading, we should either return or accept the second reading, and as a basis, we have already adopted this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u27	I understand it's a question to me, not to the reporter. So you could say, well, it's not an expert in science, but the legal department of second reading concludes. Thus, if we consider these comments when reviewing the amendments, whether we vote in favour, or against, then we view the conclusion of the legal system accordingly. Yes or no? Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u28	With regard to the observations of the Legal Administration. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in general, what they are saying is that when the bill was passed in 1999 and changed in 2000 as it is currently in force, they were against the law because they thought that the law was contrary to the Constitution, defining certain special conditions for such types of treaties as it exists for all other goods, works and services. However, the bill does not enact the law by virtue of it, it amends and clears what was adopted in 1999 and 2000. Therefore, the comments that have been made to the Legal Office are mainly about the texts that are currently in force and we are trying to correct them. That's the first one. Second. In all countries of the world, in fact, these treaties are of special relevance. And they are set out in particular; they are regulated by separate regulations. Why? Nedra is the property of the State and of the people, and when they are chosen, they are not filled out. Therefore, it is not possible to treat them and establish the same conditions as for the sale of goods, jobs, services. It's like a crime against our people. And the last. Well, a certain point of legal administration, they're just not entirely correct. Well, maybe it's because we've already corrected the amendments that were already considered before the second reading and that have been made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u29	Come on, Yuri Mikolayovich. The second amendment caused remarks to be made by the deputy. You insist on its contents. I'm putting her to a vote to lift the debate on this. The second amendment by Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyeva refers to a vote that envisions an increase in the role of the Cabinet of Ministers in this sense. Please do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u30	This amendment is specific. This amendment is not actually mine. This amendment was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u31	I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u32	And they're working, until the second reading, we agreed with her.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u33	Right. I'm putting it to a vote, I'm putting it to a vote. Please, second amendment. [[10:52:57]] For the 220. Not supported. Third amendment. Remove from the draft law the proposal to change part of the first article eight. Yuri Mikolaiovich, how do you explain?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u34	The drafter proposed that the terms of the contract should also be consistent with the terms of the tender that was announced by the State and on the basis of which an investor won the competition. He won under the conditions offered by the State, and he added. And the Cabinet of Ministers believes that it will then have its hands tied if it is guided not only by its requirements of legislation but also by the terms of the competition that were once announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u35	Doesn't that raise any objections, does it? No, it's not. Fourth Amendment. Please. Also included is where the word “appropriate ” in article 19 is thrown out. It reads: “Long-term, more than 20 years of contracts should provide for an appropriate indexation of compensatory costs which were not compensated in the first three years of distribution of produced products.” The committee also considers that it is possible to write this down without denying it. Fifth Amendment. In the proposed draft law, in the last paragraph of section 5 of article 19, the words “and which are included in the reduction of tax revenue” are deleted. This is about cutting costs that are not compensable. This amendment is included. Any comments from the authors, the MPs on this amendment? None. Sixth Amendment. It is also included, i.e. to leave the previous law. Is there no objection? None. So in order to go through this page the third is the sixth amendment in common I put to the vote. Please support them. She's not calling. [[10:55:22]] For 235 Let's move on. Amendment seven. It's counted. It's an amendment to Plastinski. Yuri Mikolaiovich, give her a brief comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u36	Well, here is a new version of part three, paragraph three in part six of article 25. It is here in the table that there is a specific new text. In principle, it does not change the substance of the paragraph; it makes it more, more clearly. If I may, I'm ready to read it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u37	So this is an editorial, essentially, clarification of yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u38	She does.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u39	Seventh amendment. The eighth amendment is also taken into account in relation to “in the case of imports into the customs territory of Ukraine of the goods of satellite services and other material values intended for the implementation of the contract on distribution of goods, customs payments except for the customs assembly, taxes on the added value are not valid” and continue by text. The MPs have no comment on this amendment? 8 amendments are included. Correction number.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u40	I would like to draw the attention of all those present in the Hall that no new tax benefits are being introduced here. The law currently in force provides that the non-added tax is not to be paid. Therefore, there are no tax benefits here; it is simply a clearer edition of this paragraph and no more, more specifically.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u41	Alexandrovsky, please note up to 8 revisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u42	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Page 8. The 7th says that. 7 Amendment, article 25, paragraph 3, of the Act. And it refers to tax liabilities on value added tax that do not arise. Thus, these procedures, which are set out below, do not lead to value added tax. Thus, these procedures on page 8 include: "in the case of transfers of products between investors in a multilateral agreement and property transfer transactions, the party to the distribution agreement to use the operator within such an agreement, as well as transactions in the distribution of compensatory or profitable products between investors." What are they talking about? The legal persons share in mine extraction. They have a distribution contract. It is not legal persons who pass on some of the goods they produce to each other, who pass on some equipment to each other. These procedures are not regarded as commercial activities and are not taxed on value added. Very good.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u43	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u44	I would like to recall that the goods that were strategically important to Ukraine were once tax-free. And then. And they gave it to the firms. And then these firms started to run a little bit, and we fought these little blocks for 10 years, including the customs office, which said that we were tons of cheap meat, we were tossing our domestic market, and so on. Here the cooperatives are going to enter firms that are going to get 1 gram, let's say oil, and they're going to transfer the basic funds from balance to balance, and God knows what else to do. I mean, it's kind of weird stuff you're offering.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u45	If you look at the current edition of this rule, you will see that it says here that the subject of “taxes added to the value” of this product is “payed in general on the date of conclusion of this agreement”. And.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u46	I didn't interrupt you. I listened very carefully. And they don't change, then, that's the point. It's now an active editorial. In fact, if you read the amendment that was made, the seventh, the seventh amendment, you will see that “the value does not arise and the size of the tax credit does not change when the agreement is implemented” some action. That is, the same formula that the benefits that were in place at the time of the conclusion of the treaty were in force. And once the contract is concluded, the benefits do not change. That's it. And the second. We were discussing amendment eight just now. If you look at the eighth amendment, you'll see, it's word for word that repeats exactly what I say, where it's written, where it's not paid for, and here it's not paid for. What's new here?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Please. Please, don't worry. The seventh amendment came up with a discussion, a variety of approaches, that is to be determined by voting. I'll bet the vote on the seventh amendment, please. [[11:00:38]] For 222 This amendment is not going through. The eighth amendment, please. Does anyone have a note? This is about the characteristics of imports into the customs territory of goods and other values for the implementation of the agreement. This amendment is taken into account and does not give rise to objections. No, it's not. The ninth amendment. This is about removing paragraph 42, which describes the essence of material values. These are any item, goods, property and transportation equipment, equipment and other items of a property nature required for the implementation of the Agreement on the Distribution of Goods moving across the customs border.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u48	Well, because this is, in principle, covered by the previous definition in 39 paragraphs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u49	Is there no objection? None. The tenth amendment is about the same topic, Chechtovva, it's partially edited. I'm betting an eighth to a tenth amendment, including a vote. Please. Eight is ten. [[11:02:12]] For 227 Copy that. Eleventh Amendment. Paragraph 14 should be edited in relation to the transfer to customs of natural resources, oil and gas from the customs territory of Ukraine. It's internal displacement, I understand. Chechtev wrote. It's edited. Yuri Mikolaiovich, no comments before.? None. There are no other deputies. The 12th Amendment: With regard to import into the customs territory of goods, other material values for the implementation of the Agreement on the Distribution of Produce are also made taking into account the characteristics provided for in the Law on the Allocation Agreement. It says Chechatov. Although she repeats, we have to say, the eighth amendment that has already been made here. But the committee determines that it is included. The 13th Amendment – Chechteva. Any comments on her, any thoughts? There's no objection. It's also considered editorially. Mikhail Vasilovich doesn't have any notes? None.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u50	If you don't mind, two words?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u51	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u52	As I said, new proposals were received from the Cabinet of Ministers for drafting the bill. Yesterday we discussed these proposals with the Committee, including the proposal to delete a new chapter 41a altogether. Here is the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u53	Tweezers, not here. before Tatiana Ivanovna, I'd like to ask you a question, please, Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u54	Tatyana Ivanovna, you are listening to the report by the representative of the “Regions” on this issue. You don't think that there's a government lie, you don't understand that there's talk about useful mines in Ukraine when you involve other people who aren't taxed, and then you redistribute it all and the value added tax doesn't go into the government budget. You don't understand? Are you forced to support what the House is voting for today? This is an anti-State law and I would ask the Ministry to probably give its word if it stands on the letter of the law and on the letter of the statehood, not on the letter of those who are now pronouncing these amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u55	I just want to pay attention now, Tetjana Ivanovna will answer, but Yuri Mikolayovich will report here not from the faction, not from the committee. Please, Yuri Mikolaiovich. ‘ Aunty Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u56	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies, well. Firstly, I want to say that the practice of applying product distribution agreements is an international practice and such practices exist within the framework of an international division of labour. That's why we tried to ensure that all the rules of this legislation were in line with international law. So what the honourable MP is now saying about taxation, once again, I would like to emphasize that all that, the movement of goods in Ukraine, under this law, will be subject to all taxes, according to the legislation in force. Taxation within the framework of a treaty is also a practice that exists today in the world. And as for the final remark on chapter 41a and some others, this is about the Customs Code, I would like to invite all the deputies to listen to our amendments, because we have added them to the international conventions on simplification, harmonization of customs procedures to which Ukraine joined in 2006 and also in connection with the accession to WTO. Thus, these amendments to the Customs Code are of a purely technical nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u57	Answer given, Alexander Mikolaiovich. The 14th amendment proposes to remove from the text the amendment to the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the excise assembly, which states that in the exclusive maritime economic zone of Ukraine, which is imported into the customs territory of Ukraine in the execution of the agreement, the excise assembly does not manage – the very essence of this rule of decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. It's the last amendment 11-14. 11-14 amendments I'm putting to the vote. [[11:07:42]] For 213 I have this offer. Let's not create a conflict here on a particular matter, and, given that there are serious comments to the draft law on the part of the Legal Authority and the conclusion that this law requires technical legal and editorial work, especially in a part that is contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine. I have a proposition, let's send it back to the second reading committee, taking into account the comments made by the Legal Office. And I think that's going to be the best way of thinking about this project. Please support this proposal. Because you can't just film it. I'm putting this proposal to the vote -- send it back to the second reading for reprocessing, for re-reading. I'll bet you a vote. Yes, the second one, for reprocessing, for re-reading. [[11:08:45]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. Law registration number 2553. On making changes to article 13 of the Ukrainian State Service Act, also in the second reading regime. Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinović, deputy head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u58	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues, national MPs! By order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 13.03. In 2007, number 724 of the Committee discussed at its meeting on 23 May this year the proposals of the Ukrainian National Deputies for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 13 of the Law on State Service. Registration No. 2553 of 15.11.2006, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted on 13 March 2007 by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the purpose of its development. National deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee unanimously supported most of the proposals submitted to the bill. Eight proposals are taken into account in part, which generally relate to the extension of the obligation, the declaration of income for members of the families of civil servants. Detailing the provisions of the bill on the introduction of a mandatory special review of the information to be provided by government officials who claim to hold certain positions in the identification of the subjects to carry out the inspection. Its schedules, the circle of persons to be familiar with the results of the test, and so forth. Predicts in the final positions of the respective tasks resulting from the adoption of this law, the determination of the performers of these tasks and the deadlines for their execution. The chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are no comments on the draft legislation. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 2, part one, article 118 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, a bill that has been supplemented by a committee that takes into account proposals made by the legislators, adopts it on second reading and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, according to the second reading procedure, we are considering changes to the State Service Act, which regulates the admission to employment when recognizing the status of civil servant of specific people. There are really legal clarifications here. All the amendments are taken into account, except for the first one that is edited, because Olega Lazko is not here, we're going to look at this document clearly without him. Here we have to say that Olga Bodnar and other suggestions are being made, although they are not here, it is as political as the light of a distant star, its wishes are being considered, considered, and the light does not take part. However, there is a general proposal to vote on this law, since it does not raise any objections and indeed foresees the standards necessary to regulate this kind of social relationship. Is there no objection? Then I put this project to the vote as a whole as a law. [[11:12:54]] For 259. Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service on the Limitation Age. This is registration number 3251. And so Vladislav Valentinovich Lukyanov will report this, if I am not mistaken, one change. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u60	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear fellow national MPs! Draft Ukrainian Law amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service, registration number 3251 from 01.03. In 207, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, it was adopted on April 3, this year by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The bill is aimed at involving senior government authorities, ministries of other central executive authorities and district government administrations in case of need, as an exception, experienced and highly qualified workers who have reached the established age of service. By order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, according to the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree of 03.04. In 2007, number 853, the Committee discussed at its meeting on 23 May of this year the proposals of legislators for a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 23 of the Law on State Service. The National Deputies of Ukraine unanimously supported the proposals submitted to the bill on how to determine the term of residence on the State service of persons who would be assigned to certain posts after reaching the statutory age of service. Predicts in the Final Orders of the respective tasks resulting from the adoption of this law, as well as the determination of the executioners of these tasks and deadlines for their execution. There are no comments by the chief legal office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the draft bill. The Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with article 118, part two, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a bill that has been drafted by a committee that takes into account the proposals made by the entities of the legislative initiative, the adoption of a second reading and the whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u61	If you've noticed, MPs participating in the consideration of this bill, it's about approving an editorial adopted in the first reading, where restrictions are previously given and extending them to men up to 65 years of age for certain categories of service. And women under 60 years of age. Some women here say that this is discrimination because women live longer than men. But in public service, men hold on for longer, and this is how tradition comes about. So there is a proposal to vote on this rule as suggested by the committee. Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. [[11:16:31]] For 271, oh, 250, the decision is made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, for the stenographer. I think it would be worth it, because these are two laws that apply to changes to one law, so that we can shape it by signing it to the President as one. It's for the stenographer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u63	I don't think there's any objection. It's from a legal point of view. The issue of ratification. This is a draft law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on participation in the work of the Steel Committee. Report to Deputy Minister of Economy Friday Valérie Teziyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u64	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! You are considering a draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on the participation of the Steel Committee. I would like to point out that raising the status of Ukraine and Ukraine's participation in the Steel Committee from observer to full membership will enable domestic companies in the steel industry to participate directly in making decisions and recommendations that determine trends in the world steel market. It should be noted that Ukraine is now ranked eighth in the world’s steel industry and fourth in the world’s exports. In addition, account must be taken of the prospect of Ukraine's accession to the World Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Steel Committee.There is a unique forum where Ukraine can now take part directly in the resolution of issues that will determine the rules of the world steel market in the next 15-20 years. The high status of a member of Ukraine at the Steel Committee will require an annual forecast in the government budget for Ukraine’s contributions, which will be calculated according to the rules of the organization. According to previous estimates, the contribution will amount to about 7.5,000 euros a year. The ratification of the agreement will allow Ukraine to plan annual fees for participation in the Steel Committee in accordance with the current legislation. In view of the above, we propose to ratify the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development regarding participation in the work of the Steel Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u65	Is there a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Then, Valérie Teziyovich, please sit down. Alexy Vitaliyovich Plotnikov, deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy, is invited to the rostrum. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u66	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council reviewed the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on the participation of the Steel Committee. Well, you probably don't have to tell me what the role of metallurgy is, what the role of mining, steel production, the development of Ukraine's national economy, and, of course, Ukraine's cooperation with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, with one of its committees, is more than important. Co-operation with the Steel Committee is an opportunity to integrate into other committees, and it is possible that Ukraine will gradually integrate into this Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In accordance with the Treaty, Ukraine participates in the work of the Steel Committee on an equal footing with member states by implementing the Committee's rules, such as providing information needed to carry out the tasks, participating in financing the Committee's activities and recognizing the Council's multilateral directives. With regard to a particular activity, Ukraine was invited to participate in the committee’s work by: Firstly, it is agreed to cooperate within the framework of the work of the Steel Committee on the implementation of the mandate and, in particular, by providing other participants and the information committee necessary to carry out the tasks and to participate in the implementation of the new activities of the Committee. And this is also the second position, this is the implementation of the multilateral recommendations of the documents provided for in paragraph 6 of the Council Decision. In any case, this is very important to the state, to the relevant sector and in general to Ukraine's position in the world. So the general conclusion of the committee is that we propose to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u67	Is there no objection? Question, Vasil Stepanovich Bogchuk, please. Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u68	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I want to say that I support the ratification of the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, I think that this is a step forward, this is a new opportunity for cooperation with this authoritative organization, it gives us the opportunity and new ways to discover for ourselves, and the rules of the game to set, and so on. But I'd like to ask. When will Ukraine become a full member of this organization, and how much will this cost our budget in a year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u69	Come on. We are thinking that the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development is combining so-called industrialized countries. Regrettably, Ukraine does not fall under the criteria of the industrialized countries and is not about Ukraine’s membership in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. But in principle, on such an optimistic perspective, Ukraine will, of course, be an industrialized country, once Ukraine joins the ASD, an English abbreviation. I mean, these are, in principle, perspectives. But the fact that Ukraine integrates into the work of this committee is kind of the beginning of total integration. It's a step.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u70	Vasil Stepanovich, don't worry. Economic cooperation is paid here, not by the State. So the budget, you stand firm in the defense of the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u71	There's seven and a half thousand euros a year left.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u72	Please, I'm putting to the vote the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement. Please. [[11:23:26]] For 253 Decision taken. It is proposed to include in the agenda and to take a decision on the draft Law on Reeltoring. I'd like us to include that question. Registration number 3499. I'm putting to the vote the issue of inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. [[11:24:00]] For 237 Decision taken. Question enabled. Please come to the ropyev Yuri Mikolaiovich from the committee. Oh, I'm sorry, Praslov here is speaking. Where's Prassolov? Yes. I'm sorry. I missed it because the co-rapporteur is only Yuri Mikolaiovich, and you are Igor Mikolaiovich's national deputy, the author of this project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u73	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. You will have before you the draft Law on Reeltoring. At the outset, I would like to thank the Committee on Economic Policy and the Chief Scientific and Export Authority of the Supreme Council for the serious analysis and proposals made for the bill, which will necessarily be taken into account in further work. With regard to the proposed draft law, it is worth noting that the current situation in Ukraine's real estate market under new socio-economic conditions is an urgent need for legal regulation in the field of re-eltoring. The unregulatedness of the Ukrainian real estate market has led to the large amounts of money that are being used in this market being baited by any kind of fraud seeking quick and easy income. In this situation, ordinary people tend to become victims. A large part of the population is forced to trust various commercial structures and individuals whose professional status is not defined. In view of the need to establish clear rules on the real estate market in order to ensure the effective functioning of the national real estate market, to protect the rights and interests of consumers of real estate services, the bill proposes to streamline the activity of realtors by establishing an institution for certification and registration of professionals in the real estate market, by legally consolidating the real estate status and the real estate business entity, by regulating real estate activities through the establishment of a special body for the regulation of the Realtor Chamber of Ukraine. I must say that we have already received a lot of thanks for bringing the subject of real estate to the legislative level. People want a basic order in the real estate market. I would also like to say that we invite you to work on the bill of realtors, the realist organizations in preparing it for second reading. Dear colleagues, I ask each of you to support the bill on real estate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u74	Is there a question for the rapporteur, the author of this bill? Please sign up. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u75	Thank you. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. Dear reporter, please tell me, do you not have any doubts that we are doing something inconsistent in this area of activity? What I mean. In the previous session, we were very concerned about the non-participation of foreign citizens, such as, say, the Asian zone, of being able to do real estate in Ukraine, allowing them to do this activity in Ukraine. And now we're trying to bring this whole area of activity into line. Or was it more logical to act the other way around, to settle this set of issues that you're raising today, and then decide who to let go and who not to let go? We understand what a huge danger there is when the rhetorical activity in Ukraine is being done by foreign citizens who do not have any, let's say, financial mortgages or guarantees to compensate for possible losses in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. I must say that, as it is said, we set two barriers for a person to engage in realtor activities or a company to engage in realtor activities, that is qualification and certification. I think that at these stages we must resolve the question of who can work and how can work in this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u77	But here we should also define in the article “Reeltor”, this would all have to be written down. We don't answer the legal question he asked.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u78	Alexander Alexandrovich, I agree, but this law is still being passed on first reading. I mean, there are a lot of comments already, proposals for this bill, I think that we will meet with a colleague and discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u79	Sonchenko, please ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u80	Dear Ivan Nikolaevich! I wanted to ask you, I have a question of form, not of content, but of form. We do not have the word “reeltor” in the Code of Economics and the Civil Code. Nor does the word “reeltor” appear in the English language at all. So I suggest you change the name and change all the references in this document. Well, there's one, two references to it, but in principle, it's real estate. Call it a human, Ukrainian word. That's a proposal and a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u81	Thanks for the offer and the question. But you know, I've, to be honest, we've condemned what we call the law, but here we are, as a result of discussion with realtors and colleagues, we've decided that this is the international word “reeltor”, it's of English origin, which says it's a specialist who works in the real estate market. In a word, a realtor. So if. Well, here's really a question of form. I think that it is possible to introduce a “reeltor” into the legislation is a short, strong word, which, by the way, we have long lived and used in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u82	Well, the thing is, it's our legislation. I'm asking for your attention! There is a word “reeltor ” in our legislation. That's why it's kind of a debate here, in principle, but, you know, you can give up the word "credit," "debit" and other things that are not Ukrainian, but they're already in economic life, they're there. That's what I'm talking about. But you answered the question. Have a seat, please. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev’s report makes this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u83	The Realtor Act was reviewed by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy last May. And the Committee unanimously suggested that the Supreme Council should adopt it on first reading. He has comments. By the way, I do not agree with the author that there are many of these comments. Many of them are controversial and some of them are wrong from the Committee's point of view. What is the point of this bill? There are different types of activities and different persons in the service market. For example, there are services such as lawyers, there are services such as notary services, there are services, there are patents, and there are other services. And many services are regulated by a separate law. Why, because it is necessary to rationalize these activities in some way: that the person seeking this service would have the opportunity then, if he received a service that was not of quality, be able to punish the person who provided him with an unquality service. This time. Secondly, in order to limit legislative access to such services to those who are unable to provide such services. You can't do that. That's two. Thirdly, it is for us to restrict the access of non-professionals to this market, so that the State protects its citizen. Establishing the legislative framework for the provision of these services. The bill further regulates all of this. In particular, it provides that an all-Ukrainian organization will be established to determine, verify the qualifications of the people who will provide services to the population on the market once. It will issue special certificates to these people for the right to participate in these activities, two. It will address citizens'complaints about the activities of these reactors, three. And it will deprive those realtors who provide services that are not good-quality, who are simply trying to deceive people and gain from it, it will deprive them of their rights to do so, four. Unlike many bills, I have already mentioned this before on the committee, I have had to consider three options for the law on legal activity since December and two options for the law on notary of new ones. Unlike all these laws, this is the first law, such a service law, which does not provide any benefits to these realtors at all. It only provides for the organization, the verification procedure and the procedure for their operation. And if I may, I would also like to briefly answer the two questions raised by my previous speaker. Because they're very interesting to me, too. With regard to the admission of aliens, well, we cannot simply limit the admission of foreigners to this market, it will not be right, it will violate international agreements. However, this bill also imposes certain restrictions on the prevention of passersby from entering the market. How?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u84	Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u85	How? The requirement for higher education, once the requirement for professional knowledge, is two, a special examination of these, these realtors.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u86	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u87	And we didn't give him a realtor certificate. And in terms of the word “reelter”, you know, here's what Adam Ivanovich commissioned me to do about leasing so that we could find him a replacement in the Ukrainian language for this “leasing”. And I specifically sat there, lost 2 hours of time there, but I analyzed the entire normative basis for the word "leasing". And it turns out that several hundred regulations in Ukraine are already in operation with the word “leasing”. If we put another understanding of the term into some law right now, we're going to have an abracadabra and a contradiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u88	Yuri Mikolaiovich, in the Great Interpretation Dictionary of the Ukrainian Language, there is an explanation of the word “leasing”. So that's the English word. Please. It's foreign language, but it's a Ukrainian word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u89	In view of what I have told you, the Committee decided unanimously to recommend to the Supreme Council that it support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u90	I see. Is there a question for Yuri Mikolaiovich? None. Have a seat, please. Who would like to comment on this law? There are no wanters. Then I'd just like to ask you to listen to the expert's point of view, because it's about the legal settlement of relationships in a society that's already formed, but it needs to be regulated, because it's an important part of relationships. And to ask the authors, if they're going to work on the draft law, here's an article on the responsibility of the rieltors. Because here are the rights, the obligations of the users of these services, and the responsibility is not given to those who provide these services. And there's a lot of people involved in this activity right now. And there is obviously a way to normalize these relationships and the rights and responsibilities of all parties. So if we were to prepare such a specific document for the second reading and who has the right to do it and with regard to citizenship, by the way, relative to the scope of such services and applications, it would be useful. However, the first reading of this project, as proposed by the Management of Affairs, is to be taken first, sorry, such as the Legal Office, the Scientific and Experimental Administration, and the authors of the bill, as well as the committee. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:38:11]] For the 220. There are no votes. I'd like to ask the drafters to work with the factions to convince them that it is necessary to adopt this law, and then it will probably pass through the session room. We just have to put it in order without considering today the bill numbers 3621, 3622, 3624, 3626, 3633 and still up to 3644 they're on the list here, here's the benefit of course Vladimir Zlatinski, because he's offering most of these projects. But here and there are changes to certain laws regarding the status of the Armed Forces and so forth. To be included in committees, these laws can be prepared for consideration by the Supreme Council. 3639 is about listing property rights that are not subject to privatization separately, right? Okay. In addition, I put everyone to a vote on inclusion and then on a separate basis. Please. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:39:33]] For 245 Decision taken. Now 3639. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the List of Property Rights Objects Not Subject to Privatisation. This suggests, right now, the deputy head of the Platinum Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u91	This is suggested by the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u92	And this is responsible, this government is proposing, sorry government project I didn't see that government. Borszewski takes the floor for reasons. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u93	Borszewski, faction of the Communist Party, Dnepropetrovsk oblast. I ask colleagues to take this very seriously because today, in the city of Yellow Water, where Vosgok is a city-based enterprise, a very serious social tension has been created, today special police units have been introduced, and the labour force is protesting a change of leadership. Gorsovit almost unanimously appealed to the Government to review the staffing changes and the future fate of Voztok. I therefore call on all my colleagues not to vote on this issue today, but to study it further, because today the residents of the Yellow Waters, both working for and for the Gorsins, are protesting against these actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u94	Consider this proposal, but it is another matter. Obviously, all the deputies have to look at the entire list and then draw conclusions about the project. Is there only this object, yes? Then, please, Mikhailo Chechetov and Peter Stepanovich will say more. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u95	The distinguished Alexander Alexandrovic, respected colleagues, is a number of objects, it is not a change in the management of the enterprise, it is not a matter of privatization. Therefore, the request to include it in the agenda can then be considered in the first reading, if an object is of interest or indeed admissible, causes a certain social resonance, then it can be deleted after the first reading procedure, but there are other objects besides that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u96	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u97	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Mikhail Vasilovich, not quite as you said, because it is about removing a number of objects from the list that are not subject to privatization. Because we all know that corporateism is one of the mechanisms of privatization. So this is, in fact, a special form of privatization, which is corporateization. And that's why Victor Valentinovich is absolutely right when he's asking the question that this question needs further study, and that's why we don't think it's necessary to put it in the order of the day session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-13-m0.u98	Thank you for this information. I draw the attention of the deputies to the fact that the adoption of such a law provides for the mirroring of this law. This means that there is a way to privatize these objects, three objects. If there is a note before that, there are two considerations, either to be included in the order of the day, or not to be included in the order of the day, further studying. It was the first sentence to include in the order of the day, and I put it to a vote. [[11:43:32]] For 214 It's not on. Let's work on the factions, make sure on the Coordinating Board maybe we need to consider this and then figure out essentially. Ladies and gentlemen, we have considered the issues that were scheduled for the morning session. Now we've included in the order of the day a number of issues to be considered on the committee and I'd like to prepare them for consideration. At this I declare the morning session closed. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
