ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today is January 11th. We're continuing the planning sessions. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Please register with the deputies. Turn on the "Council" system. [[10:03:27]] Registered - 417 They're ready to work 417 national deputies. The morning session is open. Let us welcome the national deputies who are now fulfilling their birthdays. Andros Sergey Aleksandrovitch, welcome, Baburin Aleksija Vasilovich, Gunnery Evgen Alexiovich, Larina Sergey Mikolaiovich. They're all young, they're not even old, they're just names, you have to say that. You have a list of documents to review for today. Let's get on with it. We need to take a decision on the reports: a temporary commission on violations of legislation during elections to local governments in Chercas in 2006. You have this report on your hands. And the commission asks without a report, because the question is exhausted. And the determination is short: “Take note of the matter and consider it as a matter of fact. The decision takes effect from the day of adoption.” I would like to support this proposal and vote in favour. There's a vote coming. In fact, the commission’s termination is exhausted. [[10:05:41]] For 312 The decision is made for 312 national deputies. About the permanent suspension of the authority of the Ukrainian national deputy, O. Lukash. For this reason, there is a draft decision. Helen Leonidovna is now serving as deputy minister, and according to the Constitution, the prime minister, she cannot reconcile this work with the duties of the national deputy. Her application is made to the Supreme Council. The Committee concludes positively on this point. She wrote the application on December 20. I'm asking you to support the ruling, the draft decree to terminate the mandate of the Ukrainian National Deputy Lukash. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[10:06:47]] For 372 Decision taken. On the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Head Responsibilities, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Head and Secretary of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. Ephraim, please to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on January 10, the committee considered the submission of the head of the Deputies’ faction of the Bogotire Raisa Vasilina on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Harmash Hanni Mikolayovna, a member of the Party of the Regions, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs, relieved of the duties of the first deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on freedom of speech and information. The calculated quota for the Party of the Regions' parliamentary faction on committees of up to 10 persons is 7.2, and the Committee of the Supreme Council is working in foreign affairs from this faction of 5 Ukrainian national deputies. I mean, the quota is not fully used. The committee decided to support Herman’s application and to make a corresponding draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u3	May I put it to a vote? I'm betting on the vote on this project. Please identify yourself. [[10:08:40]] For 272 Decision taken. A draft of the National Amendments Regulation is under consideration. It's for the National Bank of Ukraine. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Mikol Petrovich. Please. Sergey Petrovich Klovev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u4	Dear President, distinguished colleagues. In accordance with articles 85 and 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, article 10 of the National Bank of Ukraine Act, members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine are appointed by the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine appoints seven members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine by decree. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also appoints seven members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine by a decision. The term of office of members of the Council of Nazbank Ukraine is seven years. The five members of the Council of Nazbank Ukraine were appointed by Supreme Council decision of 16 July 1999. Consequently, their term of office ended on 16 July 2006. The mandate of a member of the Council of Nazbank Ukraine, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine order of 18 May 2000, will end on 18 May 2007. However, the powers of a member of the Council of Nazbank Ukraine, appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 18 May 2000, were terminated early in connection with death in accordance with article 10, paragraph “g”, of section 8, of the Ukrainian Law “On Nazibanke Ukraine”. In view of the above, a draft decree appointing six members of the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine is being introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council. No comments were made on candidates at the Committee's meeting. The Committee recommends the adoption of a draft regulation which would thus enable the Council of the National Bank of Ukraine to discharge its functions fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u5	Thank you. The point is that the candidates were discussed in factions, the committee, and this is done transparently, openly. Make a decision. I'm voting on this motion for a ruling. You. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Is there a question? Please ask questions. Sign up for questions. Five minutes. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u6	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Alexander Aleksandrovich, you can argue with me about what was clearly discussed here, because when we look at it, only the Anti-Crist Coalition representatives are offered to the Nazibank Board. And when it comes to representatives of Parliament at the National Bank Council, they have to be candidates from different factions of Parliament, not just from the Anti-Crist Coalition. That's the first one. The other one. Dear Sergey Petrovich, you have a personal question. Do you think it's very correct to report this question when you're one of the candidates for the National Bank Board? And the last. You recently, before the new year, voted, appointed your people in the supervision of the Rescue Council, the Eximbank. Now you take control, under the control of the National Bank. Tell me, why do you take these banks? Are you the Communists' principle, first the banks, then the mail, the telegraph, and then all the power in the country? How?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u7	Thank you for asking, for asking. So I will begin with the first question concerning the representation of factional members on the Council of Nazbank of Ukraine. The Committee came first from a professional point of view, but if the fact that the faction of factions is still concerned, I would like to point out that the proposed decision contains the name Poshenko, which does not form part of the Anti-crisis coalition. The current composition contains the name of Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko, who is also not part of the coalition. Further, as I have already reported in my report, seven members are formed through the adoption of the relevant Presidential Decree and seven members are formed by a decree. And I think that's the composition that is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u8	Thank you. The arithmetic is that of the 14 members of the anti - crisis coalition, five men and the rest not representatives of the coalition. Please, Kovtunka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u9	Alexander Kovtunenko, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please give Oleg a word to Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u10	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u11	The Honourable Head, the Honourable Reporter, is not in the House of the People’s Deputy, who would not be disturbed by the problems of the National Bank of Ukraine. And I think the time has come for the Supreme Council to intervene and introduce a new law on the formation of the National Bank of Ukraine Supervisory Board, on its composition, on its structure and on the representation of all the political forces in the National Bank on the criteria of professionalism, on the understanding of the matter and on the protection of Ukraine's national interests, today is far from the point. Enough with the fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u12	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u13	If we consider and make proposals from the Financial and Banking Committee to the decision of the Supreme Council. If decisions are taken by the Supreme Council on another form of formation, on other principles of the establishment of the Nazbank Observatory, we will act in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u14	Sweden.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u15	He has to announce. Where's Sweden?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u16	There is no Sweden. Please excuse me. Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u17	Thank you. Please give the floor to continue your opinion to the national MP Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u18	Thank you. Easy to say.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u19	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I have to take the floor again, because the argument, Sergey Petrovich, that you're talking about professionalism in frame-up, is not entirely true. First of all, in our faction, there are as many banking professionals as there are in the anti-crisis coalition. And second of all, it's a personal question to you. Please tell me, how do you personally relate to the banking business? Is your level of professionalism and education appropriate to address such serious issues as the formation of monetary policy across the country? Have you ever had a personal relationship with banks, do you know about their work or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u20	Thank you. Well, regarding the representation of your faction, once again, I would like to reiterate that there is now Julia Vladimirovna Timoshenko in the Council of Nazibank. This time. It's personal to me. I am not exactly correct in reporting on your first question, but since the holiday period and some committee leaders have not yet arrived, I have to report, regrettably. This time. As far as I'm concerned. So I am the Chairman of the banking subcommittee of the Committee on Finance. Higher education. In accordance with the law adopted, and in accordance with the law adopted in the new edition, which is 1039, I am going through a coalition requirement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u21	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there any who would like to make a statement on this subject? Please write down from the motives of who wants to express himself. Ten minutes. Please, Kulczynski. Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u22	Please pass the word to the National Deputy of Arjevetina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u23	Arjovitin, please. This is Arjovitin speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u24	The "Our Ukraine" faction, Stanislav Arzzewitin. Our faction will vote against this decision for this reason, which is once again losing the logic of our legislative action. Today, the President of Ukraine is considering a law that provides for new requirements for members of the Supervisory Board. The bill, which is now being submitted, is being submitted in violation of the requirements imposed by the President of Ukraine, especially today the reduced level of requirements for members of the National Bank’s Supervisory Board. The President insists that a member of the Supervisory Board should have a higher economic education – once, and at the same time should have experience, an appropriate work experience. In a bill sent to the President today, this rule has been removed and today any LTD director can be a member of the National Bank's Supervisory Board. Therefore, our proposal, we should make appropriate changes to the National Bank Act, which regulates new requirements for members of the Supervisory Boards, and then return to this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u25	Thank you. Pussy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u26	Please pass on the word to Beziewski, deputy of Vezig.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u27	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u28	Thank you. Vladimir Vezevski, “Our Ukraine” faction. I'm going directly to Clovis Sergey Petrovich. I really respect you as my colleague, because I'm also a mining engineer. But I would like to quote for all those present in the Hall, especially for the anti-crisis coalition, article 10 of today's Act on the National Bank of Ukraine: “Member of the Board of the National Bank may be a citizen of Ukraine who has a higher economic or financial education”. In this case, I am raising the help given to all parliamentarians, and there is no education. So I think that such a respectable faction as the “Regions” could offer an expert in this field. And let us not violate today's Act on the National Bank. And to reject this candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u29	Kowal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u30	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. Deputy Koval, National Movement of Ukraine. Please give the floor to the deputy of Lanova.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u31	Please, Lanovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u32	Thank you. Vladimir Lanovyev, National Movement of Ukraine, faction “Our Ukraine”. I think it's a waste of politicization on the part of the anti-crisis coalition. Since the National Bank, an institution outside politics, is outside the administrative, executive, or other types of institutions. In all parts of the world, the Supervisory Board is chosen by the experts of the higher class. We have these standards and requirements even low for professionals who made up the Board of the National Bank. For the authorities, the government and most in the Supreme Council, I would like to point out that if the decisions of the National Bank Board are ineffective, useful, possibly unilateral, politicized, this leads to the excitement of the financial markets, the increase in inflation, the loss of interest rates that are useful to the economy. Thus, prejudiced decisions that may flow from the National Bank are harmful.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u33	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u34	Please give it to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u35	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that the Supreme Council does not for the first time form a composition of the National Bank Board. And always, given the importance of this body and the importance of the stable work of the National Bank, the Council was formed on a proportional basis. I mean, from all the factions, regardless of whether they're in opposition or in the ruling coalition, they were representatives of the National Council. Now, Alexandre Alexandrovich, and the so-called anti-crisis coalition is going a very different way, i.e. with seven members of the Supreme Council, five representatives of the Party of Regions, one socialist, well, and a representative, I don't know who, Peter Poroshenko. So, honourable colleagues, we think this is not a constitutional approach, it's not an approach based on legislation, and it will certainly lead to the politicization of this body and according to the financial danger in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u37	Lappina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u38	Dear colleagues! “Our Ukraine” is convinced that the supervisory board of the National Bank is still more professional than the political body. We believe that it should be shaped by professional principles, but it is clear that each faction wants to have an influence and has its own experts, and wants to offer those experts to work in this body. Convinced that today it is too early to make such a decision, and it may not be balanced, it can balance the banking system of Ukraine, and it can be overly politicized, which is absolutely dangerous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u39	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u40	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. The faction “Our Ukraine ” will vote against this law. And it seems strange to us that, at the President's consideration, there are changes to the National Bank of Ukraine Act, in particular with regard to the regulations on members of the Supervisory Board, they are trying to bring forward the candidates of the people on whom questions are raised, contrary to those laws in force. And those candidatures that come from the anti-crisis coalition, regardless of the representation of all factions, also contradict the logic of the process. And once again, I stress that the faction of “Our Ukraine” will vote against such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u41	Thank you. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u42	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The desire of the so - called anti-crisis coalition to join the work of state banks is understandable because statistics show that population contributions increased by more than 40 percent last year and account for several tens of billions of dollars. So we can assume that antichrists want to join these cash flows in order to have their own interest. But we need to be guided by objective realities of life. They are based on the fact that when there are only representatives of one political force in the National Bank's board, this is the Party of the Regions, it destabilizes the National Bank's work and, as a result, leads to a financial market crisis in the country. This should be the unbiased work of this body responsible for the Nazbank Council, which will result in people growing wealth from the banking system rather than from it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u43	Thank you. The quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u44	Please pass the word to Anatoly Matvienka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u45	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u46	Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", block "Our Ukraine". Alexandre Alexandrovich, I am addressing you with the hope that we must realize today that the biggest problem in the country is the weakness of power. And that is what explains the misery of the lives of our people. And the weakness of power in general, including its central organs, is defined by unprofessionalness. And we're now again instead of maybe among all the institutions that are in our country, the National Bank is working professionally, trying to sit as rappers or as a mimosa on the body of this professional team -- that supervisory board that we're forming. It seems to me that we should define the criteria under which we have the right to allow as a member of the Supervisory Board such an important body as the Central National Bank. That's the first one. We do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u47	Thank you. Son of a bitch. Stepan Vasilovich, speak. Stepan Vasilovich, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u48	Stepan Kurpil, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, we see a completely incomprehensible principle of council formation. I think it's necessary for this council to have professionals, people sign in their sphere, not representatives of politics and political business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u49	Thank you. Bogesheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u50	Please pass the word to Arjevetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u51	Arjovitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u52	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm talking to you again. Now there was a very good and reasonable offer, and your proposals were around to describe the new procedure and the new requirements for members of the supervisory boards of state banks, including the National Bank. Let's go back to that question. Today we're not going to take a decision, we're going to get a response from the President on our proposals for members of the Supervisory Board, and then we're going to look at that question. Where are we going? We scrupulously consider this determination, and we supplicate it. Who needs this? Let's take a closer look at this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u53	Come on. In this case, I am guided by the proposal of a committee of profile, which is about banking. In the proposals you have on hand, of the six men, five have the right, and even a law that is not yet in force, training, economists, financiers. From them. They all worked in the banking system. Here are all the factions of the Supreme Council. They had a discussion with each other at the Banking Committee, and they accepted such proposals. So determine by vote. I don't insist on one option or the other, and you decide by voting. I'm putting this order to a vote. Please. [[10:31:07]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. With regard to the draft Decision on Amendments and Supplements to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision "On the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation with regard to the provision of natural gas for Ukrainian consumers, the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation in the Ukraine energy market", the chairman of the Commission requests that it be transferred to the next plenary week. I am asking you to support this proposal and I am voting on this proposal. [[10:31:58]] For 363 The MPs support this proposal. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings is being considered on "To intensify Ukraine's cooperation with the European Union within the framework of the Euroregion and the perspective of cross-border cooperation". In this regard, reports Volodymyr Mikolaiovich Vecerko, a national deputy. Please. This is the subject of committee hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished MPs, voters present! Developing external economic linkages, including cross-border cooperation, growth in economic indicators is a major challenge for Ukraine in the international arena. Accession to the World Trade Organization and consistent integration into the European Union are Ukraine's foreign policy priorities. We know that a new so-called strengthened treaty between Ukraine and the European Union will begin in 2007, the main economic part of which should be a free trade zone and deepen sectoral cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. In 2007, the European Union was strengthening the cooperation mechanism, the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, which provided an opportunity to attract additional resources for development from the European Union such as energy, transport, environmental protection, medicine, pharmaceuticals and the development of medium and small businesses. The objectives and objectives of initiating parliamentary hearings are the perspective of cross-border cooperation, the possibility of exploring all issues related to cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union at the international level. Also explore the areas and directions of cooperation, taking into account the localities and problems of each region. Parliamentary hearings not only provide an opportunity to explore practical forms and directions of cooperation with the European Union, to use technical assistance, but also to hear the views of representatives of all areas of interest. No government organizations, no media. The outcome of the parliamentary hearings will be the accumulated framework for proposals for individual regions, the lessons learned from the development of cross-border cooperation. The agenda for parliamentary hearings on intensifying cooperation with the European Union within the framework of Euroregions and the perspective of cross-border cooperation provides for the consideration of opportunities for cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union not only in areas bordering countries members of the European Union but also in other areas of Ukraine where the results of such cooperation will be most visible. Therefore, in order to enhance cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union to intensify Ukraine's practical steps in the European Union with a view to raising the depressed areas of Ukraine, we believe that the holding of parliamentary hearings in March 2007 with the agenda “To intensify cooperation with the European Union within the framework of the Euroregions and the perspective of cross-border cooperation” is essential and relevant. I request all factions to support our draft regulation, and was also considered on 21 December 2006 by the Committee on European Integration and also supported, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be adopted as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u55	Honourable deputies, in March, parliamentary hearings here in the session room are scheduled to be held on the implementation of legislation on the social and legal and moral protection of war veterans, on the implementation of the State programme “Oncology” and on the status of implementation of the action plan “Ukraine – EU”. Therefore, we can only consider questions about committee hearings. And we need to support the committee's proposal, with the involvement of all the experts involved in this decision, by making appropriate changes to the editorial on the subject, let's say, the forms of this hearing. Committee hearings. Yeah. I am. You have a question, don't you? Sergei Volodymyrovich Shevchuk, question to the reporter, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u56	Alexandre Alexandrovich, I have a question for you. Sergey Shevchuk, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. In principle, you have made some innovation on the committee and, as I understand it, the author of the legislative initiative does not propose to hold committee hearings, namely parliamentary hearings. The report's argument is very convincing and we are pleased that it was the Party of the Regions that initiated this issue, but it is really very important that we consider it in the session room, not in one of the Committees of the Supreme Council. I ask you, Alexandre Alexandrovich, not to make such innovations, because, indeed, 2007 is the year for the preparation of a new deepening agreement between Ukraine and the EU and this issue needs to be given great importance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u57	Please. Please. I'm asking you, we're not having a discussion on this, because this is about the impossibility of violating the Supreme Council's ruling on hearings in March, it's already been made, it's a decision. According to the Rules, we cannot hold more than one hearing at this level. So you want to use the 14th. Please, the session room can be used. On the 14th, use the session room, but it's not a parliamentary hearing, it's a committee-led hearing. There is a need, and I support the initiative in this respect of authors. Any questions? Sign up for questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u58	Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u59	Wait a minute. Sign up for questions. Just for five minutes. Kirilchuk, please. Six minutes, because there's questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u60	Please give the word to Alexander Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u61	Vladimir Yavorowski at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u62	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Alexander Alexander! You know, I'm a supporter, and on the Conciliation Council, I always say that a number of hearings have to be transferred to the committee level. But in this case, it's a strategic issue, it's about the execution of the Tassis program, which can cost us a lot of money. It's about running the Carpathian Bridge program, it's a global issue, and I'm telling you, once again, it's a committee listener. Here I would insist and support the committee to hold high-quality, full-time hearings at the level of the Supreme Council, not the committee. And the point is, it's not in the room where it's going to happen. The point is in the level of discussion. This is a strategic issue for Ukraine, and I insist from the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" that we do have high-quality, full-time hearings here in the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u63	Then I have an offer, set a date, May, June.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u64	On March 14th, the day off, March 13th in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u65	We don't have a day off, we have a month. In March, we have parliamentary hearings, decisions already taken by the Supreme Council. That's why we can't do more than one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u66	Mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday, mayday,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u67	If you agree to do it for May, let's do it for May.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u68	Have a month.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u69	May?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u70	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u71	Then can I put to the vote or will there be other questions? Do you insist on the questions of those who are enrolled? No, Popescu does not insist, and so does the next Ponomarenko. So I'm putting this project to a vote for May. Please. [[10:41:28]] For 393 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u73	Have a seat, please. The draft Resolution on Parliamentary Hearings is being considered on "The National Innovation System of Ukraine: Problems of Formation and Implementation". Catherine Samuel wants to report this question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u74	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The draft Order is proposed on 20 June 2007 to hold parliamentary hearings in the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the theme “National Innovation System of Ukraine: Problems of Formation and Implementation”. The purpose of parliamentary hearings is a comprehensive study of issues that constitute a social process and require legislative settlement. This was preceded by a joint meeting of the Ukrainian National Academy of Sciences in early November last year, together with the Committee on Science and Education and the interfractional unification of the National Deputies for the Science of Ukraine and the 29 November Committee hearings: “Innovation in Ukraine: problems and ways of resolving it”. It was the participants who accepted the recommendations, which suggested that parliamentary hearings be held at the state level with the order of the day. To implement these recommendations, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has already given appropriate instructions to ministries and departments. According to United Nations experts, the national innovation system is a system of interrelationships between science, industry and society, by which innovation serves as the basis for industrial and social development, and those, in turn, stimulate innovation and determine the most important directions of scientific activity. From world experience, there are examples where the focus on achieving the goals set for severely limited resources, or those that are shrinking, has led to a strong increase in the country’s innovative activity. I will give examples of China, Japan, France, Germany, Israel, Finland, India. Thus, awareness of a difficult situation can trigger a consolidated response from the government, scientists, entrepreneurial circles, aimed at a wide-ranging expansion of innovation processes, which in turn can lead to a major breakthrough in Ukraine’s economic development. Today, there are conditions under which, in view of the perceived inability to raise the economy to European level, it is entirely possible to concentrate society's efforts and resources on developing an innovative model for Ukraine's development, which can enrich world practice with another example of creating under crisis conditions, indeed an economic breakthrough. The innovative model of practical development is being implemented through a national innovation system, which is a specific set of institutions that ensure the flow of innovation processes across the country. In Ukraine, there are prerequisites for creating a national innovation system. This is, to some extent, the preservation of the scientific and technological potential of our state, this conservation has undergone progressive changes in the education and vocational training system, this is that a package of regulatory acts on innovation is being adopted, and the mechanisms of state and market financing for innovation projects are being developed. There's a network of organizational and technological innovation infrastructures being developed, and there's a growing use of Internet-based mass information technology education. Positive results have been obtained from the innovative development of the clustered approach to the updated production. Small-scale innovation entrepreneurship and so forth is formed. At the same time, the state’s policy of modern innovation requires substantial adjustment and development. A number of key problems in Ukraine need to be addressed. And they are in the absence of the theoretical-methodological basis of an innovation policy of a state that is capable of ensuring orderliness, transparency, predictability, the complexity of innovation policy, the high individual performance of its individual elements. And so we have to say that the only front we really need to solve this question. Accordingly, the main problems of creating an effective national innovation system in Ukraine are the following. First. To date, there is no single science-based and well-established government, state-level model for the innovative development of a state that determines the choice of Ukraine. It's different. There is currently no national development programme in which, based on a thorough study of the world’s experience of creating national innovation systems and the specifics of domestic conditions, there is a need to determine the order of terms, volumes, resources, and so forth. I mean, the country today needs to adjust the broad spectrum of public policy, and it's precisely, I think, we need to define them. Strategic for the formation of a national innovation system is the development of breakthrough innovation projects. So it's important that we define a real list of priorities for innovation. We already have. We have laws that define about 8 strategic and 60 medium-term priorities. This is all insurmountable. Finland has one priority, and they're working on it. These priorities are also limited, but this is indeed a strategy in other countries. Therefore, we also need to determine for us what is today a strategy that is at the top of our list of priorities, and it is on this road that we continue to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u75	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u76	Thank you. I don't need to talk because I have 10 minutes. And so what I would like to say is that in Ukraine, there's a significant array of domestic inventions, technologies, the creation of minimum conditions that can be used to give a powerful boost to the expansion of innovation processes in Ukraine, and in the future, to create conditions for the elimination of bottlenecks of the national innovation system under the influence, including market stimulants. That is, the consolidation of the hearings of legislators, government officials, scientists, business circles of society on the optimally complex solution of methodological, strategic and tactical problems, the formation of a national innovation system, is able to open up prospects for the introduction of an innovative model for the development of the country, and to ensure that economic growth is faster. So we have to come up with the development, adoption and implementation of the national national concept of innovation in Ukraine. There's no other way. Therefore, the committee in Ukraine, which voted in full for the parliamentary hearings, asks us to support the holding of such parliamentary hearings on June 20th in the session hall.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u77	You still have a minute. You can finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u79	Thank you. Yes, respectable colleagues, the subject is extremely important and rightly explained by Catherine Seminovna. We need to look at one detail: these are specific, subtle professional questions. And I'd like to ask, let's have a hearing on the committee first with all the necessary specialists, and then Catherine Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u80	We were listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u81	I listened very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u82	They were on the committee hearing on November 29th and it was the scientists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u83	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u84	I have to repeat it for Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u85	Please, Catherine Seed, you didn't get the words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u86	We need to listen, Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u87	Please! I know what I have to do. I'm voting on the proposal to hold these hearings in June. Please. [[10:52:03]] For 252 Decision taken. Draft Decision on the holding of parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of respect for the rights of trade unions and employers' organisations in Ukraine in accordance with International Labour Organization Convention No.87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Rights of the Organization. Mikhailo Yakovic Wolintz, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u88	Fellow Members, International Labour Organization Convention 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Rights of the Organization provides for the freedom to create an organization of workers to protect their rights and interests, i.e. trade unions and to join them without prior permission. In accordance with this convention, public authorities cannot interfere with the activities of trade unions with the aim of restricting workers ’ right to freedom of association or obstructing their legitimate exercise. The acquisition of legal personality rights by the organizations of trade unions cannot be subordinated to conditions that make it impossible to enjoy freedom of union. The same is true of employers’ organizations. And when I was preparing this draft decision, we agreed with the employers that the issue was being addressed in context. But in practice today the situation is such that the rights of people in employment are being violated in a massive way. If we remember, in Soviet times, the unions performed their job protection functions, and they did their work inspections, there were other values, and the man in charge of the work came first. I remember even such cases when issues arose, and the courts were always on the side of a freed person or a workman. At the same time, the situation has changed, we are now entering a period of development, unfortunately, of wild capitalism, where changing these values has made things worse. And what is the nature of the violations today. For example, a normal collective agreement was adopted in the Lugansk area at the “.” factory, but in time a hundred copies of a counterfeit collective agreement were distributed, which became operational at the company, and resulted in the loss of workers' wages and protection of their rights. Only after my appeal to the Labour Inspectorate and the Ministry of Labour was it possible to find out that there was a fake collective agreement. And we were able to resolve this situation. But the first violation led to other disruptions in the company, and 52 drivers were forced to declare hunger. Now there's another example. For example, it touches the coal sector. And when a draft of the Coal Privatization Act was drafted, it was found that the role of trade unions was not visible and that other legislation was being violated. In this regard, I met with the minister of the coal industry, who seemed to have reconciled the matter. But in order to clarify our tactics for the union and to learn about this issue, I organized a trade seminar in the Donetsk region on the privatization of the coal industry. But then he received several statements from members of the trade unions that Ukrainian security officers in the Donetsk and Luhansk region were very closely questioning our activists, what was the purpose of the seminar, was there a Wolinec who was talking to Volinec, who were moderators, what were they saying? The SBA continued to suggest that the independent mining industry was already opposed to privatizing the coal sector at a time when the issue was not studied. And for example, the Zaporozhye transformer factory: mass violations like this I just didn't see in Ukraine. And when the head of the alternative trade union raised such questions, he was beaten and then planted for 15 days. And at the same time, when he declared hunger, he was put in prison. In this regard, the matter was discussed at the level of the government and also discussed at the level of the Minister of Labour, and the Ministry of Labour prepared, to the honor of the Ministry of Labour, a college on December 26 on the issue of the right to freedom of association, and we discussed the matter very carefully. In addition, in the context of the agreements with the Ministry of Labour, it was proposed that I prepare this decree, and it should be considered in Parliament in April. This issue was discussed by the Labour and Social Policy Committee and was supported. The Ministry of Justice also supports my position and the Ministry of Labour. I also want to say that in connection with these massive violations, several complaints have been made to the International Labour Organization and the Confederation of Free Trades, and therefore Ukraine has not received trade preferences, i.e. trade benefits for 96 groups of goods from the European Union. Today, Ukraine is losing about one billion dollars from trade and therefore the goods of Ukrainian producers cannot reach the countries of the European Union, and those who are stuck there are forced to leave because 8.5% of the tax on export-import is pretty serious. We today, I propose to consider this issue, to accept this decision, to prepare carefully for the consideration of this issue in order to lay the groundwork for the fact that we are today in the position of upholding the rights to freedom of association. And first of all, we're also laying the foundations for building a social dialogue in Ukraine at the level of employers, unions and authorities, on equal terms. In addition, a bill on social dialogue was being considered at the Labour and Social Policy Committee yesterday, and it's in the context of the same thing. But the law has not yet been passed, and we must be carefully prepared for the Social Dialogue Act to be adopted in an appropriate state that meets international standards, the ILO Convention and the labour legislation of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u89	Thank you. No questions? There's a question. Wait a minute. Sign up for five minutes. Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u90	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'm here to make sure our unions are strong enough to protect our employees. I didn't really want them to become unions, so let's say they didn't serve the authorities. The government is changing, and the unions would like them to be powerful. But at the same time, I would like to ask this question. You're saying that you're writing complaints to international agencies, and that's why Ukraine didn't get billions of dollars of preferences in trade. How much does this involve protecting a Ukrainian producer when he is unable to sell his produce? And in general, as we are purely patriotism, as we show our state, when we don't solve these issues on the spot, and we turn around, and then we leave the image behind Ukraine, and that affects all of our employees. And the second. In my opinion, these issues that you've reported today, and first of all, should be addressed in the professions themselves, first of all, and then perhaps at parliamentary hearings. How do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u91	Thank you. A very good and important question. Despite Ukraine’s failure to accede to the European Court of Justice Treaty, from Ukraine, the most important references to the European Court of Justice were made to the European Court of Justice. This is a testimony that today we do not have laws, that the courts do not properly make fair decisions, and that people are unprotected, they are forced to approach international organizations. In addition to the Confederation of Free Trades, which is headed by the United Nations, other trade unions are constantly addressing the International Labour Organization and other international institutions. This is a world-wide procedure, but it only happens after all levels of issues are not resolved. It's not decided at the judicial level, it's not decided at the administrative level, it's not decided at the National Council of Social Partnerships. And I want to say that the loss of the Ukrainian business in this case is not 1 billion dollars, but 1 billion dollars. Regrettably, there is much to think about and much to learn. To sit, as in all civilized states, at a round table, and to settle, not in conflict, not in strikes, but in conversation, to decide through collective agreements and agreements, through a general agreement that, unfortunately, we can't conclude for a year.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u92	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u93	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Mikhaylo Yakovich, last week you and I took part in an expanded college of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy with the participation of the leaders of many professional organizations and the conversation, I think, was quite serious and the salaries that are set out are also very substantial. How do you view the proposal with regard to the recent college, for example, to conduct, to consider this issue in the form of committee hearings, and then to return to this problem at the level of parliamentary hearings? I think there would be some logic in this proposal, because it would be, well, sure, if you wanted to, the onset of solving that problem, the really important, pressing problem that you're going to consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u94	Peter Mikolaiovich, grateful for the questions. Indeed, the government and the Ministry of Labour took the first steps and kept their promises and extended the meetings of the Labour Committee, and the first issue was the question of upholding the rights to freedom of association. We have carefully considered not all the questions we could discuss there, but thank you for doing so. And within the framework of the agreements, it was decided that I had withdrawn my draft decision for November 2006 in view of the fact that a college of ministries had been held, and then in April or May, parliamentary hearings on the matter had been held. By April, by May, I do not deny that we had committee hearings about February or March, and I thank you for such a fine offer. And now I suggest that you and your colleagues vote in favour of my determination so that we have some time to prepare. I emphasize that the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Justice, which deals specifically with these issues, they support the proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u95	Okay. Have a seat, please. Excuse me, one more question. Matthew. Please, Mikhail Ivanovich, I didn't look at the monitor for another minute. Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u96	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear Mikhaylo Yakovich, I would like first of all to support you in your opinion that in Soviet times, indeed, trade unions have protected the rights of workers. They have done much to increase social protection for people, to provide equal opportunities for all our citizens, such as for children’s recreation, family recreation, and so on. In your opinion, why did it happen that this one of the main functions of the trade union is not being used today?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u97	In Soviet times, the unions had a different quality, and a careful selection took place in the unions, first. Secondly, the state was focused on social development. It's a very different situation now, I explained. We're in the process of forming a capitalist society. And the nature of capital is to raise more and more capital. But in the world, they have working counter-aggressive mechanisms, and they're set up in the principles of the social dialogue of equality of the parties that are being violated today. I have already said that we are in the midst of wild capitalism and injustice. Anyone who has once faced injustice and the inability to realize his rights understands what I am talking about has no greater humiliation for man. And I don't think we need to be very particular here right now, worshiping everyone's belt, everyone understands what's going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u98	Thank you. Please have a seat. Hara Vasil Grigorovich, the committee will make an opinion. If you'll excuse me for a little while, fine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u99	Dear colleagues, our colleague's proposal was considered at a committee meeting and parliamentary hearings were supported. But I would like to say immediately that the debate was mixed, and with a minimal change, a decision was taken in favour of the bill. I have personally opposed, although I am now acting President of the Donetsk Regional Council of the Trade Union, for a number of reasons. First. Parliamentary hearings tend to address issues of concern to society in order to find some points of contact to address some of the concerns of people. I am deeply convinced and know this professionally that there are no such problems on this agenda in Ukraine. Second. Yes, we have weaknesses, as in all spheres of human activity, but such flagrant flaws that could excite our public and make it in this high hall to discuss and accept any recommendations, they are not. Although there are some cases. I want to bring you two cases like this. But this is not about the relationship between employers' authority and trade unions, it is within the employers' union itself. I personally think that these cases are, more specifically, screaming. The First Deputy, now the first Vice-President of the Federation of Ukrainian Employers, Grishchenko Vladimir Alexandrovic, wrote to the President that the principles of social dialogue had not been taken into account in the preparation of the draft budget. The President did not like this letter; he expressed his dissatisfaction with the true information written in the letter to the President of the Federation of Ukrainian Employers of China. China has not found, unfortunately, he is a national MP, I deeply respect him, but in this case, he is very wrong, and if you want, he has done the wrong thing. He decides and dismisses the first Vice-President of the Ukrainian employers, Grishenko Vladimir Alexandrovic, by his order, the person elected at the employer's conference. Vladimir Aleksandrovic filed with the court. And the court, of course, restored him to work. The President's draft on social dialogue was considered at the meeting of our Committee yesterday. But it was found that the bill had been drafted by a working group on a tripartite basis: employers, trade unions and the State party. However, the discussion had revealed the basis of the document that it was not the document that the tripartite working group was working on. And criticism was expressed by Vladimir Alexandrovic at the meeting of the Committee. The reaction is clear, the President's decree appears this morning and Vladimir Alexandrovic is already dismissed as co-chair of the tripartite socio-economic council of the President. A violation of the law, which states that the employer's party is delegating its co-chair to this. There are flagrant shortcomings in this regard, but they are not linked to the relationship between power and the violation of the convention, but to the impunity within the organization itself. I therefore reiterate that the Committee, with a single vote, has decided to maintain the proposal. I am deeply convinced that nothing good, nothing new, anything interesting at these parliamentary hearings will be heard with you. So, personally, I don't think we need to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u100	Thank you. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Please! From the Committee, Vasil Grigorovich, come here and have some more questions asked by your colleagues. Please sign up. Five minutes. Bogesheva.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u101	Please pass on the word to Vizier.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u102	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u103	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. Yesterday, we had the opportunity to get a good look at the faction, and sometimes it's not quite right to talk about the bills that came to the committee. But I would like to point out to all speakers who sometimes speak out on the subject. Today’s report, which you would like to give from the committee, did not refer to the questions you raised in this important rostrum. So I suggest that all the deputies and you, in particular, do the right thing and give the opinion to the committee, not what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u104	Dear Vladimir Mihajlovich, you probably know very little about the Convention referred to in this regulation, it is about social dialogue, about social partnership. The examples I have cited refer to social dialogue and social partnership.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u105	I immediately said that the decision of the committee as to which it had been and how it had been taken and expressed my view of what I had the full right to do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u106	Shamanov. None. Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u107	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, would you please tell me, if we were to hold a hearing, all we have to do is have a social dialogue with the unions and the authorities and, say, employers and so forth? Or perhaps in general we need to figure out what's going on in the unions, what's going on with their property, how much it was, how much it was sold today, how much it was sold to, at what prices, and then conduct full parliamentary hearings with appropriate assignments, and so that they have some result. Or you. Is that your opinion on this? You know this problem very well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u108	With regard to the issues of trade union ownership, I do not very much agree with the decision taken by Parliament. The thing is, you and I have to be law-abiding people. The Constitution states that private property is inviolable. In view of the fact that the Constitution has failed to define “collective property”, it is similar to private property. And you and I don't really get into the sphere, let's say, understood. Second. The Trade Unions Act makes it very clear that no one has the right to interfere with trade unions either by the State or by employers. On the other hand, if there is evidence of a violation, of an illegal sale, and so on, the trade union organization, as such, is responsible, on an equal footing with all citizens and public organizations. But that requires some evidence. Discussing trade unions without them in the internal affairs of trade unions would be a violation of the law. Another thing, to discuss and express our views as a member of a trade union, we like this trade union or we don't like it, is another matter. But once again, as people who write laws, we have a duty to obey them. No one has the right to interfere inside.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u109	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u110	Please give the floor to the national deputy Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u111	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u112	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear reporter! I also support the idea that if you step out of the committee, you tell the committee's position, and you say your own opinion, as we all, the button on the record, write down, if you get in line, say your own opinion. And it's very strange that, Alexandre Alexandrovich, you're not responding to the gross violation of the Rules that the reporter is demonstrating. In fact, of course, we have to hold parliamentary hearings on this subject. Because trade unions today have no opportunity to defend the rights of their members, for in the courts people cannot find the truth, but they go to the trade union, authorities and employers say they have seen them in one place. And it's very strange of you, the leader of an active trade union, and also of a grandkid, where the masses of people in need of protection hear the thought of that. I think you're against the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u113	First of all, I'm going to answer the question, because I had a point. I'm in agreement with the comments that we need to make on the subject, but I think the reporter was pretty convincing that he was dealing with this particular problem, although in itself this topic for parliamentary hearings. We should have determined whether we were listening or not. We make them in this form or in another form. And enough for that. You don't need 10 minutes to talk about your opinion, and so on. And you too, please be more specific. So you say there, in some place, call it where you're making it clear what you're talking about, because we're talking about it. Please, Vasil Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u114	First. I began with the decision taken by the Committee, and to charge that I did not make an opinion of the Committee with disorderly conduct. Second. Please read the Rules and whether the State party has the right to express its views in the report of the Committee's decision. And third. Regarding trade union activities. Trade union workers, trade unions should not be involved in politics, not in the crying of Yaroslavna, but in protecting the interests of the working class — members of trade unions, working with people, working with the authorities, and working with employers. We have three levels of relationship with power, with the employer: the first is a social partnership; if power and employers don't want it, then a constructive position, if they don't want it, then a firm position. And the trade union law gives very high rights to trade unions to protect the interests of a private member of trade unions. The other thing is that not all trade unions want to take advantage of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u115	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please! We're now discussing whether we're hearing or not. If we're doing this, what's the shape? That's what the decision is. And to hold parliamentary hearings right now, to discuss issues in a comprehensive way, well, there's no subject to discuss this, nor is there any point in this discussion. There is a proposal from the author to hold parliamentary hearings, the committee supports this proposal with a small advantage. The questioners offered to do so on the committee. However, there is a draft decision to hold parliamentary hearings. I'm putting this order to the vote. [[11:17:16]] For-166 There was an offer to conduct committee hearings on this subject according to the program proposed by the author. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. I'll put this motion to the vote. Please support her. [[11:17:41]] For 398 I explain to which committees are those dealing with labour, social protection and the Social Policy Committee. Please consider the question: a draft decree establishing the boundaries of the city of Uzin Bilocerkow district of Kyiv district. As reported by Bodnar Olga Borisovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u116	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Kyiv District Council violated the concerns before the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the establishment of the Uzin Bilocerkow district. Each of you has been given such a plan outside the city of Uzin Kyiv. I would like to remind everyone that the establishment and change of the boundaries of the areas, the cities, refer to the constitutional rights and powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this regard, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government considered the noted concern at its meeting on October 13, 2006, and brought this draft decision to the attention of the Supreme Council. It proposes to establish a total area of 8.1 thousand hectares of Uzin Bilocerkow district in the Kyiv region. The Uzin border project was developed by the state-owned company Kyiv Research and Project Institute of the Land Authority, the State Committee on Land Resources on the basis of the city's overall development plan. At present, the city’s borders are not approved. If you look at the outline of the outer border of Uzin, which is added to the draft decree, you will see that only those lands that are already in the city’s knowledge and the Uzin City Council are included within the city’s borders, taking into account the prospects for comprehensive urban development. So we actually have to go with you to establish these boundaries of the city that already exist in reality. As I have already pointed out, the total area of the city is 8.1 thousand hectares, of which 298.8 hectares of state-owned land, 29.1 hectares of general use land, 4.5 thousand hectares of agricultural land and 891.5 hectares of citizens' land and so on, the Ministry of Defence, industry, and other lands. The question of establishing the boundaries of the city of Uzin was addressed and approved by Uzinsk City, Bilocerkow District, Kyiv District Council, and the Committee of the Supreme Council on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations. All of them offer to support this question. According to information provided by the city’s head, there is information that delegated authority to manage the land outside the populated area until it has been approved by us, on the territory of the city council given to the Biloczerk district government. If we approve of this plan, an agrocomplex will enter the city’s territory, allowing it to develop at a significant pace. A large number of new jobs are foreseen. So the city will develop not only as a city but as an agricultural profile. According to a paper published by the City Council of Uzin, there are three companies in Uzin that each of these companies has a joint venture of land-pile owners who have issued State acts on the right of private property to land to citizens who are residents of this city. Thus, the legislative procedure for preparing and introducing this issue has been followed. The committee proposes to support the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u117	Thank you. Any questions? Sign up. Please, five minutes. Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u118	Dear Mrs. Bodnar! I have this question for you: you know very well that this year 2007 is going to be a year of great land passions in Ukraine. That's understandable today. Prices on the ground and things like that will not come down from the mouth. Of course, we support the committee's decision and the district council's concern, but I have this question. You know, now the biggest plague is when the land, for example, is transferred to another category and so on. We are interested in the fact that those soldiers who have resigned or who have retired are interested in building and receiving land in the cities of Uzin. Isn't it going to happen that then these land plots, let's say they're going to sell to wealthy Chinans and we're opening locks for possible corruption.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u119	Thank you for asking. That's not what this is about. You know, I'm very careful about this, because we're keeping an eye on him. It's about the decommissioning and transfer of land to the Uzin garrison of the Bilocerkow district of the Kyiv region since 4 October 2004. That is, it's an air complex, not, let's say, not a land on which you can then build buildings, but an air complex itself -- avionics and all, let's say, buildings that are designed to serve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u120	Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u121	Dear Olga Borisovno, of course, from my point of view, the determination must be supported, because there is a procedure, and you said that all the stages are properly passed. I have a question for you as a committee member. Tell me, what is the principle of when you're looking at this kind of submission, because I know that Simferopol, or Crimea, is long-standing documents, and they've joined the committee on naming new settlements, such as the Anajurt settlement around Simferopol? I know the committee hasn't been bringing them to the hall for months. So I'd like to know, let's say, the principles, the motives that you use when you're considering giving local advice, which are necessary for our consideration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u122	Thank you for asking. Of course it's in the apple because it's my subcommittee. And no, let's say, such a question as you are to consider in our committee on these issues that you have asked is beyond my attention or analysis, including myself. In fact, I will definitely give you this information about Crimea because the committee has not yet considered it. He prepares only by the staff of the committee’s secretariat. As soon as he is ready, I assure you that we will definitely consider him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u123	Alexeyev Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u124	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Olga Borisovna, I have such an impression that you gave me a little less accurate information when you claimed that the de facto proposal was to establish the boundaries of the city within the actual limits. This is actually about increasing the city's borders by 6.7% hectares, which is an increase of 6 times. What kind of land is this? I understand that there are land for farmers, agricultural cooperatives, 300 acres [300 ha] of state land. This, for me, is a typical example of trying to change the purpose of the earth in order for it to spit later on in other people and in other qualities. Please explain my doubts, I don't think this decision can be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u125	Thank you for asking. I did not in vain remind you that each of you is given such a tablet. So, according to this table, you can see that the black border of Uzin, the existing border of Uzin, and the red border are marked, and the line that is proposed to be accepted. It's these two boundaries that match up, as you can see. So what's this all about? In fact, changing borders or introducing land is not such a fast way. And when it comes to approval, there are large stages of approval at the district level. This is how long it's been since 2007 and today's number. And you and I are looking at it. In 2004, Uzin crossed the land of the Uzin garrison, as I had just mentioned. They're already included here in the existing border, just now the city of Uzin is not in charge of it at this moment, these delegated powers of command of these lands outside the unconfirmed area so far with you and I are currently occupied by the Biloczerk District State.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u126	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u127	In order for them to move to Uzin and under the direction of the city of Uzin, we have to confirm this because we have the authority to do so. Three associations: Uzin Society, Progress Society, The Visinian agrofirma are also within the city of Uzin. For the purpose of maintaining non-reprofession-free agricultural production, all of these are land-based parcels distributed to members of these societies and formed joint ventures of landowners for which State acts on the right of private property to land are imposed, and they use it. I denied what you said because people who have the right to private property on this land are using it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u128	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. After all, you're calling for us to look at the pattern. Look at the pattern. The existing Uzine pattern is black and red is the one we're trying to isolate right now. They're absolutely identical, and in an explanatory note, you say that the boundaries of Uzin are about eight times larger. So we have a note to this table. Let the authors who give the table give a table that fits the reality.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u129	Then let me give you an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u130	Please, what is there to say about how they diverge with the explanatory note?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u131	I've listened to you very carefully. Please listen to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u132	Turn off the microphone. Have a seat, please. You've already talked about it, have a seat. Are they willing to speak? Please sign up. Your time is up, please sit down. She answered three minutes instead of one question. Please, who else from the deputies? You answered that question for three minutes and didn't answer it. I repeat, the answer was not the same. Please, 20 minutes. Please, Zabzaluk Roman, faction of the "Timoshenko Block". Bondar. Please let Bondar speak for you for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u133	Thank God I'm not Bondar for many years. I'm Bodnar. So the boundaries of the city are not confirmed every day. The boundaries of the city are confirmed when they fit for the vote in the Supreme Council. And the existing boundary of the city that you see on this map, it's been approved, maybe not even us, and maybe in some of our calls, I can't be responsible for it. After that, in 2004, certain lands entered the city, but they were not approved until those documents reached us in accordance with the procedure provided for in the current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u134	Please, Sulkowski, Party of Regions. Olga Borisovna, here comes the discussion. Your place in the session room, not the rostrum. There's no Sulkowski? No, it's not. Please, Baranowski, the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u135	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear listeners, dear fellow national MPs! To my profound belief, we have a classic example of land transfer from one area to another, so to speak. So there's a classic dissappointment of agricultural land. Let's take a look at the explanatory note. 4,605 hectares [4605 ha] of agricultural land are passed on to the city. If they enter the city’s borders, it already means that everyone on this earth. He's entitled to it, state acts, he can already manage it in a very different way than his own land, not his own land. It is no longer affected by the moratorium that you and I recently adopted. Yes, if you and I thought that we'd closed all the hatches in order to avoid any misuse of land, then we're shown a classic example that these hatches are open and we need to add a lot of things to the legislation in order to prevent land dissipation. And so let's think about it another way. When we've been looking at the changes in the city's borders and we've been adding a dozen hectares, 30 hectares, there today we're offered to increase to 8,000 hectares when there's a city line there today at 1281 hectares. I ask, “What need was there today to add such an amount of territory quickly?” What happened, no place to build? What's happened in this town in the first place? I am convinced that if the city of Uzin were 500 km away from Kiev, somewhere in the Zitomirsk, Sumskia, Chernigiv regions, and a mile [100 km] away from the city of the district center, we would not be offered such a decision by the Supreme Council today or, more faithfully, by law. So I think it's science for all of us, and I wanted to go to local councils, district councils, rural and district councils. What, dear friends, when you are preparing appropriate documents and who is pushing you to prepare such documents, is good to see, for, indeed, in 2008, we will arrive at a time when land privatization can be carried out. But what we've all stood for together is based on valid laws that we'll no longer have to privatize. The faction of socialists will not support such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u136	The widow of Gennady Josephovich. Insomnia Boris, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u137	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Unlike the anti-crisis coalition, the faction “Our Ukraine” supports the committee’s decision. And I would like to draw attention to one broader problem that we have to solve, and that, if we do that, Parliament will deserve, I think, a serious thanks from the people of Ukraine. It's about the prevalence of local self-government and this is what's actually proposed. If we look at the map of Ukraine, we will see that the entire territory of Ukraine is distributed between the areas of Kiev, Sevastopol and Crimea. If we look at the map of the area, we'll see that there are cities of regional importance and areas and there's no free area. But if we look at the map of the area, we'll see that the islands are only inhabited, and most of the land is in direct administration, well, the state and not even distributed state and municipal property. So in fact, I think it's not just the city of Uzin that needs to solve its problem and allow it to develop, and not just Kiev, let's say that it's within 1940 yet, but it's simple.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u138	Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u139	Three minutes, thank you. The village should not end in cities. So today it turns out that the peasants ’ farming is not part of the village. The city ends, not in the neighborhoods of the last building, but in the area that connects it. And this whole land must belong to the inhabitants of the inhabited places where it is located. And that would give the real material base to local self-government, which would give the land of a real master. Because the land that is here is the discussion, who is the host of it today? And that's how the city community of Uzin is going to be. Who's today? And nobody today. Today, there is either direct or crooked government, governance, not quite clear. So the solution is not only to accept this decision but to develop this logic and finally to pass the earth on to those who live there, to pass the earth on to the people of villages, villages, and cities. This is the principle of the position and faction of our Ukraine, and of our pre-election program. And I think that's the task of a profile committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u140	Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u141	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Before I say our position on the draft decree under consideration, I would like to address Adam Ivanovich. Adam Ivanovich, just in front of the entire Parliamentary Hall, and the listeners heard this rudely and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u142	Turn off the microphone. You will either speak on the subject of the law, or you will sit in your place. On the subject? So speak on the subject of the law. The chairman’s right to make remarks to those who speak out on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u143	It's about the law. So Ukrainian citizens need to know that the authors of this bill are the anti-crisis majority. And our representative reported this bill from the committee. This is not the position of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. We will not vote in favour of this bill, because we are against reducing agricultural land in Ukraine, and we know it is being done, it is being introduced within the city to then fish. And when the anti-crisis coalition is first of all I'm talking to the communists and the socialists that are part of this anti-crisis coalition, why don't you look at the state reserves and reserves that are now being run by state administrations and change the destination of these agricultural lands, why don't you ban the change in the target destination of these lands? Support our initiative and make even more sure that we do not waste our land. As part of this coalition, you are helping to decontaminate the agricultural land. And finally. I call upon all the members of the Supreme Council, regardless of where they are sitting, whether they are tolerant of their colleagues, not to humiliate them on television broadcasts, as we have seen from one of our deputies, not in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u144	Turn off the microphone. Comrade Easy, I'm making another observation. You can say what you want in “different” and you will have this opportunity. Vitenko, please. None. Please, Bulba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u145	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I think that today the next day we feel how interested certain political forces and individual individuals are in land issues, interested, because they seem to have their own interest there. Let's say we need to look at who took advantage of the lack of a moratorium on the sale of land, the absence of a moratorium on the heads of state, President Yushchenk. And then it'll be clear who the veto was organized for. And in this case, when we consider any question that concerns the earth, we need to be very careful, and our decisions should be responsible. In this case, socialists will not vote in favour of changing the boundaries of Uzin Bilocerkow district. Just read carefully what we are offered in the explanatory note: 298.8 hectares of land of government property, 29 hectares of land of general use, over 4.5 grand. acres of land, about 900 hectares of land for use, over 815 acres [815 ha] of land for the Ministry of Defence and so on, and all of this is to give, for some reason, to subjugate those who are willing to embezzle this land. And then as a specialist, let's say in the field of cartography, I'm completely misunderstood by this so-called map, as the representative of the BUT faction called. Map. Don't call maps what looks like a monkey, because there's no point here. Because if we set new boundaries and they match what we have, who are we deceiving in this way? I repeat, wait, maybe even by the standard. I repeat: Your Honor, let us not vote for such things. Before preparing such projects, it is necessary to be completely balanced in the way in which they are prepared. The Socialists will not vote in favour of this decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u146	Please, Vladimir Moses. There'll be a closing statement for the reporter, and she'll say it. Who? A Turk? But he's not asking for a speech, he's a replica. They'll get it. Son of a bitch, please. I say again, you will have the closing word, and you will say. Why are you so hot, huh? I repeat: The reporter has the right to a closing word, and in eight minutes she will receive it and speak. She has the right to speak. A miner, please. I'll say it again. I didn't hide, you have to go to the rostrum and pass the word. The Turks, please. I don't know what you want.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, I would like all the national MPs, especially those who spoke from the rostrum, to see who was the author of the law. The author of this law is the head of the committee of Mr. Tikhov, a representative of your Anti-Crist Coalition. And ask all questions about this law, please, to the head of your committee, to your representative. Including me, Mr. Socialist, I'm addressing you. As far as this law is concerned. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that we have actually voted against the President's veto for a moratorium on the sale of land. Including in this moratorium, there are positions on changing the boundaries of populated sites and re-profiling the land. I mean, according to our law with you, which you and I have passed in this room, you can't change the boundaries and locations this year, and you can't change the profile of the land. That is, when the land of farming is to work as an agricultural land. Clearly, there are problems with the inhabitants of these cities who are now put to the vote. There are problems in other cities. But, dear fellows, since you and I have adopted this moratorium, it means either we have to adopt a separate law, or we have to wait a year for others to wait. And I don't think there's going to be any catastrophic problems in these regions during this year. Let's all be on equal terms. And once again, I emphasize to those speakers who speak out without knowing what they're trying to say that our faction has made a decision: once a moratorium is in place, according to this moratorium, we have to work for a year. There's an offer for the Supreme Council not to make exceptions for anyone, because we can make a lot of exceptions. Every city has problems, every village and village has problems, and then the moratorium itself will not work. We'll just have the turn of those who want to work within the boundaries. So let's take this question off the table. And there's a proposal within the anti-crisis coalition that when you start criticizing, you'll figure out who is the actor of the law. And you don't have to blame the reporter that the committee commissioned to report this law. And I also want to turn to you, Adam Ivanovich: let's work properly. As an MP, I have the right to speak to you: to work properly, including working properly as a speaker who conducts a parliamentary session. Once again, remove this law from the discussion and put a dot here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u148	Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u149	Dear colleagues! Well, let's not confuse the righteous with the sinner, talk about the moratorium or the President's veto on the moratorium and specific issues of a particular city. We see the problems that cities face when they take care of their development. Here in Kiev, squares, parks are built. Soon the green zone will be gone. The public opposes and justly opposes. Well, cities need to develop. We see an example abroad when there are virtually no people living in high-rise buildings, there are offices themselves. Everyone moves to the outskirts, they live in one, two - story buildings. We have a problem here, not with privatization, but with the development of a particular city of Uzin, how will we further address the problems of a particular city of Ladzhin? If we don't make a decision that people won't build, they won't settle? But they're going to use some kind of shadow scheme to do that. If we legitimize the matter, the local council will be able to adopt a master plan, develop a city in some orderly manner. The other thing is that there have been cases of abuse on this town. And perhaps we need to make adjustments in our decision that would not allow these abuses to take place, especially here, in cities and villages close to Kiev. But on the basis of deliberate arguments, I don't think it's appropriate to stop the development of cities. In doing so, we interfere with the authority of local self-government and prevent the exercise of their rights and the development of these settlements. If there is no dispute with the district council, with the local village councils, I see no compelling reason not to make a positive decision on the matter under consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u150	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I am absolutely in solidarity with my colleague Turkinov's speech, who said what we should be guided by. Unfortunately, there is no law yet, because the law will become law when it is signed by the President and takes legal action. But since we have won 376 votes, we have defeated the President’s veto, and according to the Constitution, the President is obliged to sign the Law on Moratorium on Earth. And so it is clear that no Supreme Council ruling can be higher than the law of Ukraine, than the law of Ukraine. And since this is really, you see, the city's borders are increasing eight times. I say, let's ask these questions, and just like the next question about Ladhizine, let's put it down. Now we're voting for it so it's not just a decision, as it were, to be the chairman. And then let's see in detail if this corresponds to the law that goes into effect, and to work with the district councils that these people were offering, so that we can get a reasonable understanding here, because, you see, there's a lot and a lot of land in the land of agriculture that's being taken away. That is, land that should feed us, not under construction. I'm making an offer. I'm asking you, I'm putting the vote to the vote with the honorary colleagues who are the authors of the bill, please take the draft ruling for 2780 and see who the authors are. There are authors, members of the committee, and there are representatives of each faction on the committee, so please don't say it's Tikhov, Bodnar or Klukkowski. Because they are members of the committee and corresponding members of the committee have placed their names under this draft decree. So please don't say it's Tikhov's author. He's head of the committee, his signature stands first. The author is a collective committee. But since there should be specific deputies under the Constitution, there are specific names of members of the profiling committee. I am proposing to move the question of establishing a border between Uzin, 2780, and the same 2781 on changing the boundaries of the city of Ladzhin and the Tulchin district of Winnitsk. Let's move it. Dear colleagues, dear ones. All right, I'm going to the Bespalow's request, and now he's going to get what he wants. By the Rules, I'm going by the Rules, please. In order to support Bill No. 2780, the draft decree, more specifically, to establish the boundaries of Uzin Bilocerkow district, please be determined. [[11:52:43]] For-54 Boris Yakovitch, is that what you wanted? I wanted another one. I wanted us not to put down the question. The question is out of the question. The question has been removed. Please, Bespam's microphone. I didn't call the ambulance, so sit tight.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u151	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Indeed, the draft decree was failed, but, as in every vote, it was failed not by those who voted for it, but by the responsible faction of “Our Ukraine” who failed by those who did not vote for it, that is, by the anti-crisis coalition, and by attaching another faction to them. Therefore, do not lose your head to health and your sins in front of the residents of Uzin, do not try to target “Our Ukraine”. But you can make amends if you ask the question of voting right now, and this is a specific question related to the construction of the airport, not the agricultural assignment of the land at all, to decide positively how it should be. Oblada - for, Rajrad - for, the city asks, the citizens ask, and only you resist, something is not clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u152	Boris Jakovic, thank you, but I did what you asked me to do. Although I asked you to be a little bit longer, you didn't want to look any further. So please, there will be a new decision, or there will be a new session, don't worry. I propose to postpone consideration of issue number 2781 on the change in the boundaries of the city of Ladyzhin and the district of Tulchin, because the situation is roughly the same. Please vote on the transfer. [[11:54:47]] For 378 A question has been asked. Here the two factions are asking us to take a break, but let's do it in a way that we're going to now consider one more question, we're going to have five minutes to solve. Then we're going to call off the plan, and after the break, we're going to give the factions who asked for breaks, because I realized they needed to get a word on this. No objections? Then, please, about the election of Bogeshev Natalija Vladislavna, please, on the rostrum. Let us quickly vote on these decisions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u153	Honorary colleagues, next time, you are asked about the appointment of out - of - turn village, village, city heads in connection with the suspension of the term of office of the heads elected in March 2006. At first glance, it seems that a permanent cessation of authority is becoming a serious problem. However, a quantitative analysis shows that this is not the case. There are 11,000 in Ukraine. 518 city, village, and village councils are chosen according to the same number of heads. After March 2006, the Supreme Council had already appointed five city heads to take turns in the election in four cities. We know that elections will take place again in Kirovgrad. Seven village heads, five elections and 27 village heads, held 11 elections. Thus, the Supreme Council was appointed 39 elections for the heads of the territorial communities, held 23. There are 16 elections to be held on March 4. Today, we propose to appoint one city’s head and nine village heads in a row. So the total number of elections scheduled for a positive decision today, during a two-session period, will be 49 cases, representing 0.5% of the total number of rural, rural, urban heads. So it's not that large a number. In addition, more than two thirds of decommissioning cases are their own statements by the heads of the territorial communities. These include the transition to another position, retirement, or health. In five cases, the death of the heads of the territorial communities was the cause of death, and in eight cases the authorization of the heads was suspended in connection with the decision of the appropriate council in connection with the violation of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine directly by these heads. So today, according to article 85, paragraph 30, of Part 1, of the Constitution and the Law on Local Elections, part three of article 14 is proposed to appoint for the 25th of March this year the election of the Novoselicka Rural Head of the Kyrovograd Region of Ulyanów, the Rosanov village head of the Mikolai district of the Novobussky region, Corstivsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u154	Natalia Vladislavna, let's vote, because you've already reported, informed, and we're going to vote, because this is exactly where we're going. Lazko has a question just for you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u155	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I support these draft decrees, and I will vote for them, because in the village it is necessary for the host to be. And here's what I wanted to say, I specifically went over the Supreme Council Rules, read it carefully, and I couldn't find the headman's right to arbitrarily deprive a deputy of his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u156	Please turn off the microphone. I'll show you where it's written down. Come to me. You probably haven't learned all the letters yet. Let's vote. The vote is based on the draft order number 2851.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u157	Adam Ivanovich! I'm sorry, you're insulting me, I know all the letters.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u158	Draft Decision on Assignment of Elections of the Novoselick Rural Head. [[Ulyanovo district of Kirovograd region]] Please vote. [[11:59:28]] For 369 Copy that. Order on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Rosanov Rural Head 2852 projects. [[Mikolai District of Novobus]] [[11:59:56]] For 412 Thank you. Order on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Corstovian Rural Head 2853 [[Skolivsky district of Lviv region]] [[12:00:24]] For 404 Thank you. Copy that. On the appointment of the consecutive election of the Fastov Rural Head, Kyivščina, 2868 [[12:00:49]] For 415 Copy that. Order on the consecutive election of Maximovici Rural Head, Kyivščina, 2869 [[12:01:17]] For 418 Copy that. Order on the appointment of the consecutive election of Paradise-Oleksandriv village head, 2870 decree. [[Donetsk Region]] [[12:01:44]] For 415 Copy that. Orders for the appointment of the Makariov elections, 2871, is the Zitomir region. [[12:02:09]] For 414 Copy that. On the appointment of the consecutive election of the City of Snigurov, 2,872 Bill No. [[Mikolai Region]] [[12:02:37]] For 411 Copy that. On the appointment of the successive elections of the Talov Rural Head of the Luhansk region, 2873 [[12:03:02]] For 413 Copy that. On the appointment of the consecutive election of the Ribin village head of Donetsk district, 2874 You've been given this in addition recently. Please vote. [[12:03:30]] For 414 Thank you. We've made all the decisions. Dear colleagues, there's a 30-minute recess to 12.33. After the break, he will be granted the right to speak to the factions who wanted to announce the break. And I ask, let's all, including the chairman, use this break to calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u159	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. Here we had a dispute regarding the Rules, so I am sending out those who have not found the articles. Article 28. “Right of chairman at the meeting of the Supreme Council.” 9th paragraph. “The chairman has the right to turn off the microphone without warning if the speaker speaks.” So on and so forth. Please, one of the factions that took a break. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u160	Thank you, Your Honor Chairman. Dear colleagues, today the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted an important decision to hold parliamentary hearings: “The status of respect for the rights of trade unions and employers in Ukraine in accordance with International Labour Organization Convention No. 87 on Freedom of Association and Protection of the Rights of the Organization”. I would like to point out in this context that the faction “Our Ukraine” and, in particular, the Federation of Ukrainian Employers has consistently advocated the development of such a social dialogue, viewing it as one of the most important instruments and institutions for the development of civil society as such, and the way in which, in particular, the influence of the relevant and professional sectors, employers' organizations on the policy pursued by the State. I would also like to point out in this connection that this position remains unchanged and, in particular, thanks to the efforts and factions of “Our Ukraine” and those who today actually make up: parties, movements, public organizations. The social dialogue in Ukraine today seems quite influential and is recognized as a tool that meets international standards and requirements. In this regard, we would like to draw the attention of those who took part in the discussion of the matter, that the faction and, in particular, the Federation of Ukrainian Employers are making every effort not to allow the politicization of all relations related to the Federation’s activities, including the fact that the position of the Federation is always reflected not only by the views of individual members or representatives but rather reflects the position of the really wide range of those who take the responsibility to give their jobs and to provide their wages and thus take responsibility for the activities of hired workers. And it seems to me that the problems that arise today in the activity and in the form of a employers' federation should be solved by employers' organizations themselves because of statutory bodies. And it seems to me that in cases where individual Federation representatives acting on their own behalf rather than on behalf of the Federation and, more importantly, outside the powers vested in the head of the Federation, such actions will never be supported and adversely affected by the Federation itself. Moreover, we are convinced that no one can take over and replace the function of a court in order to assess whether the actions of a representative or an illegal one are legal. There are judicial institutions, and they will decide in accordance with the procedures established by law. I thank you, Your Honor, for the opportunity to speak and to bring to the knowledge of the citizens of Ukraine and the hall the position of our faction on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u161	Thank you, Mikola Vasilovich. But you know that the Constitution states that the MP is not responsible for what he says in the session room. Yes, please go to chapter two. A draft Law on State Prizes is being considered, including distinguished labour groups, educational institutions, citizens’ union, military units, and mergers, registration number 1016. Reported to the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Government, Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u162	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you and I discussed this issue on the first reading of October 17, 2006. As a result, the bill was adopted as a basis. Let me remind you what this is about. The bill establishes the order for the transfer and preservation of the State rewards of the former Soviet Union and the republics that were part of it, which were awarded to enterprises, institutions, organizations, military units. In particular, in the event of merger, association, division, conversion of these enterprises, institutions and organizations, military parts of the State rewards that they have been awarded, they are intended to be handed over to the successors with the preservation of the rights and obligations of the one who has been rewarded, as provided for in the Civil Code regarding the institution of succession. In the event of the liquidation of these institutions, State awards are to be handed over to museums in the order established by the Cabinet of Ministers. In preparing for the second reading, all the amendments were taken into account, except for one by the national MP Bespali. He suggested that this issue should be settled within the framework of the Ukrainian Law on State Prizes. However, the affected issue is not the subject of regulation of the law, since it defines the legal principles of remuneration of natural persons, not legal ones, which are, in fact, governed by the Law on State Rewards. The Chief Legal Authority noted that the bill did not take into account that in the past these awards were awarded to state-owned enterprises, institutions and organizations that, at present, could acquire other forms of property, including private property, during the restructuring. It should be noted, however, that the form of ownership of the successor does not matter in this case, since the Civil Code of Ukraine, article 104, clearly states that both rights and obligations are passed on to the defendant in the event of the termination of the legal personality. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government considered the draft draft for the second reading of the bill at its meeting on November 15th and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in a second reading and generally as a law. The adoption of the law will first of all allow for the determination of the share of honorary military rewards that are being eliminated, as well as the order of transfer to successors and storage in museums of state awards awarded to enterprises, institutions, and organizations during the Soviet Union. This question has an additional moral aspect. This is actually our story to remember. Those who do not remember their own past will not have a future. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u163	Thank you. Dear colleagues! No, no, there can't be any questions, because that's the second reading. We're going through the repairs. First amendment, Comrade Bespali, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u164	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the awards awarded to the Soviet enterprises are handed over to the successor, but not for storage, not for the museum. In the family, they remain in the family, for example, for storage, for storage. Why? With the acquisition of the rights and obligations of the rewarder, the rewarder is the successor. Do you understand? There is no such thing anywhere in the world, no such thing with regard to natural persons. But what I'm not saying anymore is that after the massive theft of government property, very often, the successors have become not just private businesses, but those who have stolen this property. And so it turns out that they're also sailors who stole government rewards. I was just out of respect for the state rewards that were earned, I'm proposing this norm, totally chickenish, removed and the committee supported. And vote for others. And by another amendment, I'll be back.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u165	Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u166	The committee did not consider just one amendment of Bespalogo, which suggests that this bill should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u167	Olga Borisovna, he's right, he had two amendments, and the first one, and the second one you didn't count. It's the first amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u168	First, I want to say that there is article 104 of the Civil Code, which does not provide for this law, but the Civil Code, which provides for the right to transfer the rights and obligations of the right-holders. So, what I'm saying is that even if someone took possession of the company illegally and became the owner of the company, the stockholder, or some other company, remains a collective. A group that has the right to these prizes, who has the right to that glory, and who has the right to bear that title. That's the first one. And the second question is that in general, if these enterprises or parts of the military are reorganized, there is a mechanism that we don't have today, a mechanism for the transfer of rewards to museums.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u169	Thank you. That's how the session room will be defined. I'll put the amendment to the vote first. Olga Borisovno, not yet, not yet. It's just one amendment. And then the second and the law in general. Please. I'm betting on the definition of the session room number one, Boris Bespalogo, to rule out the first article. Please make up your mind. The committee didn't support it. [[12:42:12]] For-82 Not supported. Amendment number two. Sleepless microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u170	Yeah. Thank you. The second amendment refers to another object. It is absolutely right that if the enterprise has ceased its activities, its rewards should continue to be used for patriotic training, for memory. We really do have, it's really moral. And they have to be kept in the museum, that's right. But it's not right to have laws from one line. We have a law called the Law on the State Rewards of Ukraine, not on the rewards of individuals. Everything about State rewards must be concentrated in one law. And this is also an element of patriotic education, so that it is not scattered by hundreds of acts, but should be the normal Law on Ukrainian State Prizes. And it must be adorned with the rule that those rewards that no longer exist were being reserved for the memory of future generations in museums. So I propose, and here in Mrs. Bodnar herself there's the same similar proposition, because of the final position to apply this rule of museums to the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u171	Thank you. I have to read the lecture once again on what the Law on State Rewards of Ukraine provides for rewards for individuals. And the concept of this law is that this is about the rewards of individuals. If we change the concept of the law, we have to change the law completely. This is quite different, it is a matter of legal persons who are not natural persons. Legal persons do not fall under this law on the national awards of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u172	Olga Borisovna. Olga Borisovna. Plus, there's the law on Ukrainian State Prizes, and it's about rewards and the former state. Hence, this law does not fall under it, for it is no longer a national reward. But let's be clear. I'm betting on the vote, huh? She admits something, but the law is called "The National Awards of Ukraine", and in this case it goes beyond that, on the state rewards of the former Soviet Union, including. I'm putting to the vote the amendment of Bespaleg. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:44:52]] For-69 No sound, but you can see. No music? Well, let's re-vote. Let's vote on the music. I'm voting on amendment number two. Well, maybe not, insists. Oh, no? Then we don't put it. Take down the vote. The third amendment of Bodnar is counted. Does no one insist on changing it? She's right, I think she's counted. Thus, we have reason to vote in general on the adoption of the law “On State rewards, by which the distinguished labour groups, educational institutions, the unification of citizens, military units and mergers”, registration number 1016. Please vote. [[12:45:59]] For 303 The law is passed. A draft Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Deputies of Local Councils is under consideration. [[on the protection of labour rights]] Registration number 2077. Head of the Committee on State Policy Building and Local Self-Government, Sergio Leonidovich Kuzmenko Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u173	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, two words, I'll remind you of the essence of the matter. We were not entirely settled when a member of the local council went to work on the council and then returned or tried to return to his previous job. So here the labour rights of such a deputy are slightly less protected than would be necessary. In order to eliminate this, the draft law was introduced to the people’s deputies of Krutz, and he went through the first reading. For our second reading, we have five amendments. All these amendments are taken into account, the amendments clarify the legal technique and some points that reinforce the protection of the labour rights of the deputy. For example, a person who comes to his place of employment is hired solely under a contract of employment, that is, for a period of time until the mandate of a member of parliament is in effect. Thus, this strengthens the protection of the right to work of a local council member who works on a permanent basis in the council. Since all the amendments are taken into account, I would like to propose that the law be voted on in the second reading and as the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u174	Thank you. Moreover, honourable colleagues, it is good that the committee of profile has taken into account the amendment of the Committee on Budget Affairs, which proposes that this law be enacted on January 1st, not this, but the following year, corresponding to the 27th article of the Code of Budget. Please, all the changes are included, all the changes are included, those who raise your hands do not. Kuzmenko's first amendment, taken into account, who has the objection? Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u175	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. I think that this law should be rejected in general, because it's about getting deputies at a time when they don't work to get into an internship that's eligible for retirement. Dear National Deputies! In Ukraine, millions of people without a job wander around in parks, villages, district cities, and no one can settle anywhere until they are unemployed. Why do we have to include this internship? And then you go to people and they start to "carve" your eyes with wages, pensions, and so on. We have restricted the pensions of Ukrainian national deputies, so what additional benefits should we give to local council members. By no means should this law be voted down and rejected, work should be done to ensure that pensions grow in all people, so that they have a job and an internship to collect pensions, rather than create white pensioners as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u176	Not to upset you, I didn't take your word for it, because you said, sorry, not at all. I gave you the right to speak after the first amendment, it doesn't apply. But you had the right to speak out at all on the grounds of the vote at the end, and that's going to add up to the next one. I am voting on adoption as a whole as a law, the Act amending article 33 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Local Councils.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u177	Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u178	Local councillors, Law 2077. Please vote. [[12:50:31]] For 337 We'll take care of our colleagues. The law is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u180	The draft Law is being considered, and more specifically, we've already moved on to make changes to some of the legislative acts. [[on employment brokering abroad]] [[second reading]] Registration No. 0914. Matvienkov, please, from the committee. Lapina, please. Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Kseniya Mikhailna Leapina
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u181	Dear colleagues, this bill was dedicated to the specificity of licensing and the introduction of employment activities abroad. It was adopted on January 18, 2006, by the Fourth Council. He came to our committee for work. We held a number of working groups, invited representatives of state authorities, such as Minpraci, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to find out what the problem was. Why was there a need, and is it necessary to introduce the Law on the Characteristics of Licensing and the Characteristics of Economic Activity in this field? And we found out, and fortunately, we have the right position, and Minpraci is such that, in fact, there are no features of licensing for today. There is a question of the law enforcement of the terms and conditions of licensing for the conduct of this activity. But when representatives of different ministries sat at the round table: foreign affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, they found out and decided that there was no problem in licensing this activity today. There's another problem. There is a problem of the invulnerability of our citizens abroad. Sadly, though, this is not resolved by the introduction of certain features into licensing. In fact, we have found that the problem is a social problem and the method of solving it is completely inconsistent. And we understand, and we're going from the committee to the hall that this bill is, unfortunately, simply not a subject of legal regulation. But we are convinced that other committees responsible for migration policy, which are responsible for protection, legal protection, should work on drafting another bill on the protection of Ukrainians, Ukrainian citizens who are employed abroad. Science and expertise, for example, advises to join the European Labour Migration Convention and advise to consider a bill that, by the way, has already been registered in this call, a bill on the concept of migration policy. These bills will answer or at least begin to answer the real social problem that is actually in society today. So we ask this bill to withdraw, i.e. to cancel the decree on the adoption of this bill in the first reading, and simply to deal with the other settlement of the actual problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u182	Thank you. We're going to have to vote on the rulings. Let's figure it out. Well, there's no questions, because that's the second reading. The second reading, but since it's half the second reading, because we're not going to the second reading, we're canceling the previous ruling. Please write down who has the questions, because I can see the hands raised. Yes, please, 3 minutes Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u183	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'd like to support the reporter in this case. Indeed, yesterday, if memory does not betray, we considered the laws in the first reading and adopted laws regarding the protection of our people, such as the protection of their work and the settlement of issues concerning the unemployed. And in this law, it would be appropriate to write a single paragraph, to complete it, and that would be correct. So we support this proposal so that it can be removed and processed in a new law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u184	Well, it was support for the law. Quick, please, your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u185	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. It's weak. I want to say that, really, such a law, we need it in general, because there's a mass of firms that push our people abroad and they don't have any responsibility. But unfortunately, what we looked at yesterday is that we're trying to look at the second reading right now, it's not written down, it's written down only the possibility of issuing licences. But it's not exactly the task of the Supreme Council to do licenses, we just have to force firms to put them into conditions that would really care about our people and predict it in our legislation, and even in our budget, some of them would have to lay down money to realize these possibilities. So I just want to ask you a question. Have you considered on the committee the possibility that yesterday, in our first reading on employment, we approved the law if by individual figures these are the problems: the problems of cruising, the problems of our pilots working abroad, people, and so on, are there any of them, have you seen them or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u186	Dear colleagues, yes, we've been watching this. And we see that this is possible in this law, and maybe in another law. But it's our only request. We are still the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy. Unfortunately, we don't have, let's say, professional ability to write these rules that apply to the right to protect citizens and the corresponding responsibility of the administrative and officials of those companies that do work. That's why we're asking you, dear colleagues, to write all of this down, well experts on these issues, and we will certainly support it. It's just not a question of licensing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u187	Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u188	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, this is a strange trend. The Main Committee to give its reasoned conclusion is defined, a clear position. The Main Committee and its representative say we're simply rejecting this bill and they're advising us not to know who to work with completely new ones. Why, then, identify this committee as a profile problem, and this problem is extremely acute. We all know that there are a lot of companies that just cheat Ukrainian citizens, not individual ones, and thousands, probably hundreds of thousands, who believe them, have gone abroad. And then we talk about other problems, problems with human trafficking and other things. And the reporter just rejects the bill without offering anything new. Change the profile committee, Chief, give me another. They work properly, not as we hear it now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u189	Well, the reporter reported on the profile committee. A professional committee has the right to determine as it has determined, but its decision is not final. If we don't support it, a profile committee will work on preparing it for second reading and then you can make suggestions. Thank you. Have a seat, please. And you'll have another one. I am voting on the Supreme Council's decision to repeal the adoption of a bill based on the draft Ukrainian Law on the specialities of licensing and the conduct of economic activity from intermediation in employment abroad. Registration number 0914-P. Please vote. [[12:59:02]] For 283 Although a decision has been made, I support entirely those colleagues who here have had the opportunity to speak out about the need for a legislative settlement beyond question. Let those who have spoken take the initiative to prepare an appropriate bill. He has the right to life. Please, draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration number 2072. [[concerning State registration]] [[second reading]] Xenia Mikhailna Leapina from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u190	Dear colleagues! We've been working on this bill. Here, even the name has been changed, and it is now called “The Amendment to the Code of Administrative Offences”. You have a board, you have notes that are counted and unaccounted for. If you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u191	Let's go, dear fellows, by procedure. The first offer is included. There's no objection. Second Lapp, no. Turned back the friction, no insistence. Slap, fourth, count. The circle, the fifth, does not insist, is rejected. And the 11th Smoker is turned down, not insisting. Everything else is accounted for. I have a question: “Do we have a special licensing authority? ”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u192	We have a special authority, this is entrepreneurship. A representative is present.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u193	Keep up the business. Yes, perhaps it would be better to write “Sustaining Entrepreneurship”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u194	No, so according to the Licensing Act there's a clear formulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u195	So we don't create another organ. Yes, those who made the amendments are unaccounted for do not insist. So I'm voting on adoption as a whole, as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[concerning State registration]] Registration number 2072. Please vote. [[13:01:21]] For 392 The law is passed. Let us turn to the chapter “To review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislative Acts on Strengthening Responsibility for Landvoluntary Employment is being considered, with proposals by the President dated 30 December. Registration number 1028. From the President, please, the representative of the President of the Supreme Council, Roman Mikhailovich Zvarić. Prepare Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u196	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The law, which is under consideration, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. The law proposes to increase administrative responsibility for the arbitrary occupation of the land and to establish criminal responsibility for similar acts, as well as for the arbitrary construction of the land in such a area. The need for criminal responsibility for these actions by the President is not denied. To date, however, administrative responsibility, both for the arbitrary occupation of the land and for the construction of the land, has already been foreseen. In particular, I direct your attention to articles 53 prima. And the 97th Code of Administrative Offences. In view of this legal situation, if this law were to take effect, we would have a situation where the crime of the said acts is established on two separate criteria, that is, we will establish both administrative and criminal responsibility. For the same offenses, one citizen will bear administrative responsibility, and another in theory may bear criminal responsibility. According to the wording of part two and part three, 197 p.m. Ukraine’s Criminal Code penalizes the arbitrary occupation of a land belonging to a category of particularly valuable lands with more fines than the arbitrary occupation of a land area within, for example, security zones. This approach is not consistent with the provisions of articles 112 and 150 of the Ukrainian Land Code, which provide for a stricter protection regime for land, especially valuable land, compared with lands of protection zones. It should also be noted that the title of article 197, which is proposed to supplement the Criminal Code of Ukraine, does not provide for the substance of the rules it establishes, especially in the text of this article, criminal responsibility for two types of crimes, namely: the arbitrary occupation of the land and the arbitrary construction of the land. Its name refers only to the arbitrary occupation of the land. Based on what has been said, with a view to defining the criteria for delimiting the various types of responsibility to prevent violations of citizens' rights, the President of Ukraine proposes a series of changes that actually reproduce the intention, namely the desire of the drafters, namely: to establish criminal responsibility for the arbitrary occupation or construction of land in such areas. And that's why it's suggested that we take into account all of the President's proposals. Let me also add that, as far as I know, when I consider the President's proposals, he agreed that it was the President's proposals to improve the law itself, and therefore he also proposes to take them into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u197	Thank you. Dear colleagues, perhaps, let's really support the President, let's not even talk anymore, because both the committee of profiles and the president came up with the same idea. And I think the Supreme Council will support them. Is there no objection? Ah, Stretovich. All right, then, Roman Mikhailovich, sit down. I'm sorry, I looked at your position, I didn't find you, and that's why I got out of the situation. Please, from the committee. He's already moved a little bit to the left, yeah. Please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u198	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. On December 14th, 318 votes were cast in favour of amending the Criminal and Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine on the responsibility for the arbitrary seizure of the land. Let me put it briefly: the President's proposals do not change the essence of introducing criminal responsibility for the arbitrary capture of land that has taken place in Ukraine today, and I have to call you the figure -- 247,000 hectares of Ukrainian land are now arbitrarily captured and disputed between legal or natural persons. I went to this rostrum to say that yesterday and the committee, having considered and discussed the President's proposal comprehensively, agreed that the content contained in his remarks, or not for the first time in my parliamentary practice, had been put directly into the whole article. Four parts were articles 90 and 97 with one, four and proposed. Only legal technology, in the view of committee members, is presented much better. However, the members of the Committee and the Chief Legal Authority consider this to be appropriate for the transcription of the Supreme Council's proposal to bring into line with the terminology used in articles 275, 294, 295 and 341 of the Criminal Code and in the text of this law, in the text proposed by the President of Ukraine, to replace the words “houses or buildings” with the words “buildings or structures” which are more appropriate to the legal nature. Thank you and please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u199	Thank you. Is there a question? Wait, please. Wait, please. There is no motive, but you can ask. Write down who wants it. Yes, please, five minutes. Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u200	Yuri Klukkowski. Please pass the word to Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u201	Reraft Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u202	Dear Volodymira Mikolaiovich, I have discussed in previous reviews of this law that it is extremely cynical to adopt a law that will persecute people who return from their places of exile to their homelands cannot get land to settle. For years they have looked forward to solving these land issues. Then they are forced to occupy these lands to build their own dwellings for their families. And at a time when a law had been made to solve the problem, such as the Law on the Restoration of the Rights of Persons Deported, Deported. What do you think, after all, and you insist, the adoption of a law that will punish people who haven't been able to return to their homeland for half a century, it's human, it's Christian, what do you often refer to, what do you refer to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u203	I mean, the law has to meet the social needs. I've already given you a figure of how many acres of Ukrainian land there are today. My second position is that, according to what we have in Crimea, the Crimea representatives of the Crimean Tatar people get excited not once, then they legalize, resell, and go back to this form of fascination. I'm responsible for what I said. And today there's a register of Crimea landowners, and there's going to be a list of who, when they get the land, and that's how it turns into a business. And the last. I mean, the self-absorbing of the land in Crimea is not the greatest. It is the largest in other areas, especially in Odessa and Lviv. So it covered all of Ukraine, and I think that the state has to respond appropriately to such antisocial actions to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u204	The Culchinian Santa.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u205	Dear reporter, as I understand from the report by Roman Zvaric, it still remains, at the time of adoption I will vote in favour of this law. But there's still a 53-prim conflict. an article of the Administrative Code and this law, which gives criminal responsibility for land grabbing. Administrative Article 53 pr. Still remains, and the judge will be either yes or yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u206	I'll tell you that the nature of the Criminal Code in the new edition does not provide for an administrative review. This means that there is no criminal responsibility today, provided that administrative responsibility has been applied to such a person before. Therefore, the standard of direct action expressed at the disposal of Article 197 with the “1” badge will act immediately. It has four parts that enable both the investigating body and the judicial authority to differentiate the degree of guilt from which to impose punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u207	Mikola Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u208	Mr. Volodymyr, I'd like you to explain in a specific article what the advantages of the Presidential version are, I mean, the Criminal Code, article 197-1. In the case of the Supreme Council, the case was that the criminal offence had been established since the so-called, arbitrary occupation of the land, namely, “involuntary to a violation of the order established by law for any action that would give evidence of its maintenance and use or of the arbitrary construction of buildings or buildings”. Now the way it sounds is that the arbitrary occupation of a land area that is badly damaged by its rightful owner or owner. That's a lot of damage to how it's going to be defined, because we have examples, by the way, not just in Crimea, when, let's say, it's just a small building, it's built, it's built, it's built, it's built, it's built, it's built, it's installed, and it's changed the owner. So how would you explain this moment, doesn't it make the sense of responsibility worse?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u209	It doesn't get any worse because the footnote in the President's version, and the one voted, tells us that the significant damage that comes with responsibility has to exceed 100 times the untaxed minimum of citizens' income. Accordingly, if there is no such damage, administrative responsibility will arise and Article 53 of the Code on Administrative Violations will be applied. If that damage happens, and that's over 20,000 dollars in an account, well, depending on the area, you know, yes, or the quality of the land where it is, where it's in the region, then the criminal liability standard starts to work. But I am convinced that when this rule is applied, it will first draw attention to administrative responsibility, whether a person has been attracted, or has been warned, whether the State has taken appropriate precautions to the offender to prevent further wrongdoing. I think that's not a violation, and the norm, as the employees of the State Commission have said, is easy to calculate. Today, there are methods that are very easy to calculate the damage caused to a certain area of land.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u210	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Let's be clear, but Chubar's word is one more minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u211	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I wanted to be motivated. Dear colleagues, I strongly reject the statement made by my colleague Stretovich that Crimean Tatars of the earth are repeatedly admired in Crimea. If Mr. Stretovich has specific examples, they should be cited because there may be different people who do. But the point is that the overwhelming majority of Crimean Tatars, returning to their lands, cannot get their own territory. By the way, and to the well-known Mr. Stretovich, I insisted that one of the President's decrees should contain a paragraph on the need to create a register of all physical and legal persons who have land in Crimea. Sadly, however, the final edition of the decree revealed that a registrar of returnees would be created. So there will be no way to compare who has land in Crimea, and there will only be a register of one part of society. That's the problem. The problem is that the Crimean Tatars are intended.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u212	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will vote in accordance with article 129 of the Rules. I ask your consent to vote immediately with the President's proposals and with the little clarification that the reporter was talking about that instead of "housewives" writing the word "building". I am voting on the adoption in general, taking into account the proposals of the President of the Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on increasing responsibility for the arbitrary occupation of the land. Registration number 1028. Please be supportive. [[13:15:17]] For 371 I thought there'd be over 400. The factions, please. 173 – Party of Regions, 108 – Block of Timoshenko, "Our Ukraine" 34, Socialists 29, Communist 21, non-fractional 6. Thank you. The law has been passed, and let's thank the President for making a more precise statement than we did. He'll sign it now because we've agreed with him. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Territories, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since December 28th, is under consideration. Registration No. 0945-1. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, representative of the President of the Supreme Council, reports. Prepare Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u213	Dear Adam Ivanovich, let me also note for the transcript that the President agrees with the little technical amendment that was made to this law, as spoke of by the head of the profiling committee. Now, essentially, the question that's being asked for your consideration is the honourable national MPs. This law, which was passed on December 12, last year, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for such reasons. In addition to the fact that the President of Ukraine supports the overall need to improve legislation in the area of construction, and I would like to place a particular emphasis on this, just in the manner in which it is proposed to address this issue in the proposed legislation, the President is denied. In particular, due to the inadequacy of its provisions of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the imperfection and opacity of the mechanism that it has put in place, the issuance of documents for the construction of apartment buildings involving citizens' financial assets. The law that came with the signature defines the list of documents that are necessary to obtain a legal person interested in the construction of multi-housing dwellings, with the participation of citizens' financial assets, and the permission to do so. The listed list provides for the legal person, such as information on similar objects that he has built. At the same time, the law provides that the failure or absence of such documents is grounds for refusing to grant a permit to build a building site. Thus, the law makes it impossible to obtain permits to build suitable buildings by legal persons who do not yet have previously built similar objects, thus creating conditions to prevent new builders from entering the market, which will certainly limit competition in this area. As a result, it will lead to an increase in housing itself. This legal position, according to the President, is not in line with articles 13, 42 and 47 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which proclaim the principles of the State’s protection of the rights of all subjects of ownership, the protection of competition in entrepreneurial activities, and the creation by the State of conditions under which every citizen will be able to acquire housing. On the basis of the above, the President of Ukraine of the Ukrainian Law “On Making Changes to the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Construction of Areas” is to reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u214	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Odarchenko Jury Vitaliyovich is the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Construction, Urban and Housing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u215	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Construction, Urban and Housing and Utilities considered the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted on 12 December 2006 by the Law on the Change of the Law on Planning and Construction of Territories. The law provides for the introduction of requirements for legal persons interested in the construction of apartment buildings with the participation of citizens’ financial assets. The Law was supported by 311 national deputies. In his proposals, the President is essentially referring only to the fourth part of the second 24th article, “to provide information on similar built objects”, and proposes to reject the Act “On Planning and Construction of Territories” adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is actually the only observation by the President of Ukraine on the basis. and it was the basis for the rejection of the law as a whole. The committee at its meeting considered this observation by the President of Ukraine and concluded that the accepted rule would result in a certain restriction on the access of legal persons to construction work and agreed to exclude the law. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it disagree with the President's proposal to reject the above-mentioned law of Ukraine as a whole and to entrust the committee to amend the law and to re-examine it with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote for the committee's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u216	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. Again, both of them are right, and I think we should support the President in some way and the President's proposal that if you don't provide information about what you've been building, you don't have the right to build it at some point. I mean, it's really unfair. And there's a report by the committee that's proposing that this bill be drafted so that it can become a law. But in that order, I'm going to put it to a vote. The first is the President's motion to reject the law. I'd like to make up my mind. [[13:22:24]] For-69 The offer is not supported. It is up to the vote to propose a profile committee to send a draft bill to work on. Please vote. [[13:22:51]] For 403 Decision taken. However, really, let's do the work we're going to do so that we don't have another veto anymore. The Ukrainian Act on the List of Property Rights Subjects under Privatisation in 2007 is under consideration, with proposals by the President of Ukraine since December 28, registration number 2250. Please, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u217	Dear national deputies, distinguished Adam Ivanovich. I hope that we will continue to work so fruitfully with the President on this issue, which we are currently considering, namely: this is the Ukrainian Law, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 6 December last year, “On the List of Property Rights Objects to Be Privatized in 2007”. This law cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine for the following reasons. A law that has been signed proposes to approve, in accordance with Appendix 3 to the law, the list of property rights subject to privatisation this year. However, it is the Fund’s responsibility to develop and approve a quarterly privatization plan for such objects. In view of this, it should be noted that, by the way, it has also been repeatedly noted in the consideration of this bill by the Ukrainian National Deputies, which includes the approval of the list of property rights that are not subject to privatization, the definition of legal principles for the removal of private property and the definition of legal property regimes. Thus, after deciding to approve the list of property rights that are being privatized this year, the Parliament, according to the President, went beyond the limits established by the Constitution of Ukraine, in violation of articles 6 and 19 of the Basic Law of our State, under which the authorities of the State should exercise their powers within the limits of order and in a manner that is provided for in particular the Constitution of Ukraine. Now the essence of the law itself. Article 4 of the Act provides that the shares included in the listed list are subject to the sale by the public authorities of privatization using the openness of auction price offers. It should be noted that such a way of privatising state property is not provided for by the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property, nor by the Ukrainian Law on the State Privatisation Programme. Under such circumstances, the implementation of the stated provision in the absence of appropriate legislation will inevitably be associated with complications, resulting in a negative impact on the implementation of the income portion of the State budget in part of the privatisation of state property. Nor could the President of Ukraine agree with the provisions of article 4 of the law, under which the purchaser of a package of open shareholders’ shares, with a statutory fund of more than 25 percent, and the state owns the property of the company, acquires ownership of the land. In this context, it should be noted that the mechanism introduced is conceptually imperfect, in such a way that it does not take into account the interests of the other shareholders of this association, since the buyer of the listed 25 per cent stock package will acquire ownership rights on a single basis for the entire area of the relevant association. This violates the rights of other shareholders of society, including those who already have a greater share in its statutory fund. The stated provisions of the law are then unacceptable, such as those that do not meet the constitutional principles of ensuring the protection by the State of all subjects of property rights, their equality before the law. Finally, the legal approach for the privatization of stock packages is not consistent with article 18 prime. The Ukrainian Act on Privatisation of State Property, as amended by the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007. And the implementation of article 4 in practice, taking into account the amount of work to be done prior to the sale of land, will make it impossible to privatize the relevant objects this year, which will also have a negative impact on the performance of the income portion of the State budget in part of the revenues from the privatization of state property. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine proposes that articles 2, 3 and 4 of the law on signature be deleted in order to change the title of the law accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u218	Thank you. No questions? Have a seat, please. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Economic Policy. Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u219	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian Act “On the List of Property Rights Subjects Subject to Privatisation in 2007” was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 6, 2006. Its provisions are amended by the Ukrainian Act on Lists of State Property Objects Not Subject to Privatisation, in particular with regard to the exclusion from Appendix No. 1 and No. 2 of State Property Rights, which are not subject to privatization and property rights that are not subject to privatization, but may be corporateised. In particular, the legislation that has been adopted removes restrictions and prohibitions on the privatization of investment objects such as the Skretelek and the Odessa Portion Plant. In addition, the law approves the list of property rights subject to privatization in 2007. The second article entrusts the National Property Fund of Ukraine to develop and approve a quarterly privatisation plan for such objects, article three establishes that stocks included in the listed list are subject to the sale by the public authorities of privatization using the open tendering principle and provided that the State owns more than 25 per cent of the shares in the statutory funds of open shareholders that are subject to privatisation in 2007, such objects are privatized together with land. [[Article 4]] On December 28, 2006, the President of Ukraine returned to the Supreme Council with his comments. The Ukrainian President's proposals state that the Ukrainian Supreme Council's "On the List of Subjects to Privatisation in 2007" cannot be signed because its individual positions do not meet the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian laws on privatization of state property and the State Privatisation Programme. In this connection, the President proposes that the above articles be removed from the project: the second, the third, and the fourth, and that the law be amended. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the remarks made by the President of Ukraine are correct and proposes to support the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the law. With a view to preventing the complete implementation of the income part of Ukraine's 2007 government budget, this is more than 10 billion dollars on the basis of the revenue coming from the privatization of state property, the Economic Policy Committee proposes the adoption of a law in general, taking into account everyone, I stress once again the key word, all of the proposals of the President of Ukraine. That is, there are only 16 objects left in the law that we exclude from the list of objects banned from privatization and 24 objects that are excluded from the list of objects prohibited from privatization but can be corporateized. And everything, as the President of Ukraine requires. Once again, I ask you to uphold the law, taking into account all the President's observations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u220	Thank you. I think we're going back to where we started. When we passed the law, that's what we talked about. Dear colleagues, and Mikhail Vasilovich, I address you. Let's probably do it then. Now we're going to vote, but not about amending some of the laws of Ukraine, because we're not making some of them, we're just making changes to the Ukrainian Act on the List of Property Rights Objects that aren't privatized.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u221	No, we make two laws: a list of objects that are not privatized, and a second law is a list of objects that are not privatized but can be corporate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u222	Because the first article does not mention this law, but it does refer to the end of the relationship. Okay. Dear colleagues, then, with your permission, I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, this is about privatization for 2007, taking into account the President's proposals, registration number 2550. [[13:33:15.]] For 294 The law is passed. I think we've been through this chapter quite decently. You see that cooperation will be good and all the laws will hopefully be signed. We need to include in the agenda the bills to amend certain laws of Ukraine today. [[on the responsibility for violations of road traffic rules]] There's two bills, they're alternative -- 2341 and 2341-1. About getting into the daytime. Please vote. [[13:34:07]] For-54 This must be what respected colleagues, those who do not have their own car, voted in favour of the inclusion in the agenda. Everyone else. Honorable fellow workers! Oh, it's clear. The factions of what? Dear colleagues, let's talk about these laws anyway. Dear colleagues, well, you know the situation: we haven't had an organ like the State Auto Inspectorate for over a year. She's been cleared by the President's decree and ordered by the Minister of Internal Affairs. So the situation is like many other areas: it is, and it is not. They're standing on the road doing something, but they're not supposed to be there. That is, these issues need to be settled by law. I mean. Sign up. I see they want to speak. Please sign up. We exchange our thoughts. Five minutes from the factions. Each faction will receive its representative word per minute. Yes, Your Honor, I'll give the factions. Quickly, please, socialists. Who? Menduz? Please, Jaroslav Mendoza. After them, “Our Ukraine” will determine who. Yaroslava Menduza microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u223	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I think it's a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, the question is mature, because road death statistics are just catastrophic. If it reached seven thousand of our citizens last year, it says that everything is not right in this system and we need to react immediately. The problem is that two bills are being proposed. One is meant to return to the model that has already been used in our country when the inspector makes his decision on the spot. Another introduces a European model. Who plans to combine the warning of wrongdoing and the cruelty of gross wrongdoing. Clearly, then, we will insist that the matter should be considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u224	Yes, please, who from “Our Ukraine”? Streetwich? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u225	Stratovic, “Our Ukraine”, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear colleagues, really, the problem of increasing responsibility for road accidents, breaking traffic rules, it's knocking on our door. And this is felt in the endless facts that are now lurking on Ukrainian roads. The Cabinet of Ministers introduced its bill and therefore the MP of Mendoza its bill, which is conceptually different from each other. While the committee considered these bills, it was suggested that they could be recommended and accepted as a basis. But I wanted to pay attention, Adam Ivanovich, to another. Somewhat strangely coincidentally, these bills, led by the Committee on Transport and Communications, are administrative responsibility. And according to the decision on the distribution of competences, that's what our committee should do. So I would ask that these bills, which are large in substance, are considered by the committee, and we're back at the beginning of the next session, because they're quite complicated and quite bulky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u226	Thank you. Let's go to the barter. You're voting for inclusion in the agenda, and we're rewriting them for you. Yes, please, Kravchenko, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u227	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Cowchenko, the Communist faction. The society has, of course, grown to the point of strengthening measures, especially when it comes to drinking, drugs, especially the red signal of light. It's a whip today. On the other hand, on the other hand, respectable colleagues need to be very fine and clearly coordinated in the law by a police officer and a regular poor driver, who, in large numbers, almost 5 million each day, takes the line. And very rightly, I believe that today I have decided to postpone consideration, consider this issue and introduce a normal, harmonized bill. I think we should take the Cabinet of Ministers bill here as a basis, but there should be a very good look at the GAI functions and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u228	Yeah, now, now. Please, from the “Regions” faction Dry. Then from the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u229	Dear colleagues, I don't know if there's anyone else in society who wouldn't see the need for immediate order on our roads. Every day as a message from the front. There's been so many deaths every day, so many injuries, so many car wrecks. That's one thing. The other one. It is quite clear that we must raise the level of responsibility, discipline and responsibility of our road users. It's quite clear that we have to take the basis, I think, of course, of the Mendus 2341-1 bill, but first of all, the profile committee has to be really defined from law enforcement and propose a bill to us. This is absolutely necessary. What is the reason for transportation and communication? Secondly, if we didn't have this strange, mildly speaking, presidential decree, with disoriented workers, undeserving ostracism, State inspection, that would be one thing. So I think we did the right thing. Let's prepare this bill as one and at the beginning of our next session we will vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u230	It is, Jaroslav, but the committee cannot do what you suggest because they are subjects. If we give them such an assignment, it will be the right thing to do. Who From BUT? Yavorovsky's written down first, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u231	Vladimir Yavorowski, a 30-year-old driver, and in those days, he only earned one hole in that ticket. It seems that your discipline on the road is no longer at all dependent on you. Because of this, there is a problem, and we have no right to hide from it. But the version proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers to give the auto inspectors the right to claim their rights and pay the fines on the spot right here is totally unacceptable. We'll go back to the old bad practice. The law of Mendoza has a lot of good things, and I understand very well that automatic tax hikes will strike, make the poor more disciplined. For our, let's say, oligarchs and entrepreneurs, this actual fine doesn't mean anything. That's why I don't think we need to hide from this, but I'm sure we should support the basis of the Mendusi bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u232	Thank you. Exchanged thoughts. Let us do what is always wise. We've got one day of work left. Today, south and tomorrow, south. Since we haven't included it now in the order of the day and the big failure, I don't see, because we're going to be shaping the agenda of the next session in two weeks and I'm asking the committee to submit it, we're going to include it in the general order of the day, we're going to vote, there's going to be 700 or 800 laws, including this one, and we're going to vote in the agenda. And the request to the profile committee and the authors, really, try to find mutual understanding, so there's one project. To bring all the better things into line with what is in the Bill prepared by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Ministry. And so we can look at one project. Do you have a deal? Let us consider the next question. We're going to have a section under the abbreviated procedure. In summary, yesterday we voted on those left behind. And I'd like to take this opportunity, because yesterday, in the media, the charges are groundless to say that talking about issues related to people with disabilities is always about the end and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, I'm explaining the situation. The schedule is as follows, the schedule is formed as it appears in the committee list. Unfortunately, the Committee on Disability Veterans is the last in this list, and therefore the issue of this committee is the last. But according to the same Rules, if the questions are not considered, they are considered the next day, and right now we're looking at these issues, they're now the first ones. So please do not blame anyone for knowingly doing so. This is done according to the Rules. And now we're moving on to the question. Draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the provision of State social assistance to low-income families and persons with disabilities]] Project of the People's Deputy Suškević. Registration number 1077. Please, Valery Mikhailovich. Short-term procedure, two minutes. Prepare Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u233	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the bill that I have drafted with my colleague Victor Vasilovich Taran refers to disabled people, and in today's conditions, it refers to the survival of disabled people when, in their case, the legislation of Ukraine is not actually implemented. [[Field]] The current laws of Ukraine under the State Budget are not financed. That's why we've made changes in the legislation of Ukraine, in the three laws of Ukraine that deal with low-income families, where children with disabilities are brought up, the single disabled and those who live with and care for the disabled. I want to explain, I want to say that the law actually applies to one of the main categories of people with disabilities that have just appeared in our legislation. I would like to draw your attention, dear colleagues, to not just the first group of disability, the first group(A). So these are invalids, the most severe invalids that are today, without arms, without legs, are completely blind. I'm not going to make a list, it's a terrible list that applies to these people with disabilities. And this bill applies to strengthening state aid for these people with disabilities. The first position is to increase by 20 percent the provision of a subsistence minimum in determining the amount of assistance for children with disabilities in relation to the Law on State Aid for Poor Families. The second provision in this bill prohibits the limitation of the calculated amount of aid, state aid, sum, equivalent to 75 percent of the level of subsistence allowance for the family. The point is that today, instead of living at the minimum, when we calculate state aid for people with disabilities in accordance with the State Budget Act, we apply a minimum of living, rather than a minimum of living, but a minimum of almost 2.5 times less living. You realize that the corresponding state aid is shrinking dramatically. Next thing you know, it's happening.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u234	Let's add a little bit, but not much. Valeriy Mihajlovich, finish because this is a reduced procedure. I think my colleagues read the law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u235	Yes, please, dear colleagues, it is these categories of disability that are being proposed to assist the first group 'a' and to increase the size of the group's disability care by 25 per cent. And a number of other things, I'm not going to touch time deficits. The point is that today the State does not comply with legislation on disabled people, nor does it fully finance them. And this law provides for the most difficult categories of disability, I've already told the first group "a" to support and increase support for care, to help touch state aid for these people with disabilities. Actually, this is the main idea of the law, I ask it to support it and I point out that, when they say that there are many costs, today the state, without funding the laws on the disabled, owes more than what we are now trying and asking for in accordance with the implementation of this law on financing. All the profiling committees have supported this law. The science-expert management is offering to accept it in the first reading. Please support all factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u236	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u237	Especially in the context of finishing the session. And just now Christmas is New Year's Eve, Old Year, support the disabled, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u238	We'll support it, but don't call it what they don't pay for. Because you're saying let's take another one, which they won't pay for. Please, the head of the Committee of Tomenko. Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u239	Dear colleagues, our committee has considered this issue and I am pleased to say that we have been pleasantly impressed by both the position and the flexibility and the ministry of ours, who understand the importance of resolving this issue. I think the initiator of this bill, Valeriy Suškevitch, is acting perfectly, and it tells us how we should work with the welfare system, the social support of the state. So, really, the most vulnerable social group of people with disabilities is taken and around it is a built-up system for the order of support, all about the first group and subgroup or group “A”, it's all set up in a part where there's competition between the two articles, let's say where more social assistance was paid, it's more social assistance, where caregivers or relatives who work with the disabled of this category need to be helped. And there's an unprinciple of governance. And we have on the committee, when we had a discussion, an absolute majority of the committees and experts who were involved have decided to support this bill. Of course, the effective date will be automatically transferred, it is clear that this is not 1 January 2007, as predicted, since the law has only been considered. And we agreed that, between the first and second readings, a working group from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, public institutions representing the environment of the disability organization and the Committees of the Supreme Council are working to remove the ambiguities that have arisen in certain terms. But I believe that our historic mission, especially the most socially unprotected disabled people of the first group of subgroup A today, is to support and vote in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u240	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? We'll vote. Then write down who's "for" – green and "who's against" – red. There is a desire to speak. Yes, Yavorowski, please and Kulczynski. Please, Yavorowski 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u241	Vladimir Yavorowski. I don't think Adam Ivanovich is going to find a person in this room who, of course, won't vote for this humanitarian bill. Because it's not just about people with disabilities, it's about people who have a society, it's just that there's no moral or legal right to ignore them. These are the people, well, who are literally deprived of elementary things in life. Because of this, I am convinced that while we have huge debts in Ukraine and politicians to these people that we do not have today, let’s say that a wheelchair invalid can’t go to the theater or to the store, in this respect we are absolutely in a cave age. Because of this, I am convinced, and the "Julia Timoshenko Block" urges everyone to vote in favour of this bill. This is a matter of our conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u242	Mikola Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u243	The “Our Ukraine” faction fundamentally supports the adoption of the bill, because our programming task is to ensure that Ukrainian citizens live in conditions of market economy and the democratic development of our society. This is also evidenced by the President of Ukraine's consistent stand on the special standards of our citizens in the adoption of the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act. The bill accurately takes into account the new realities of our lives. This is what the most vulnerable groups of people with disabilities and tens of thousands of citizens who, on one occasion or another, need special assistance from the State expect. It is also a direct duty of the State not to allocate funds from the budget for the construction of airports in Donetsk, for this is a private initiative and a private investor, but because of the redistribution of the social product to take care of its socially disadvantaged citizens. The bill simplifies the procedure for providing social assistance to children living in and studying in other places, as well as responding to the transformations that the marriage institution is undergoing today. Good or bad, it is difficult to judge, but the authors of the bill also respond to these realities, granting the right to social assistance to a woman or a husband who lives in a single family is not married but has children in common. The drafters do not limit the level of government social assistance to the first group “A” with a minimum of living, and this is also true because the State budget’s revenues are constantly increasing and require adjustments in the direction of social security for Ukrainian citizens. Some articles of the bill need discussion and improvement, which should take place on second reading. The faction asks that the bill be supported in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u244	Thank you. The discussion is over. The truth is we're talking more about disabled people, it's another committee. I don’t think the profile committee is denying it either, because there are families that are underserved here, so he went to the Family and Youth Committee. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine (for the provision of social assistance to low-income families and persons with disabilities), registration number 1077. [[13:54:35]] For-198 The factions, please. Region Party 2, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 111, “Our Ukraine” – 60, Socialists – 3, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 1. Let's do some work. I'll put it to a vote, send a bill for redrafting. Please vote. [[13:55:18]] For 394 I'm asking you to pay attention. Perhaps some factions did not vote, for there, indeed, although Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko was paying attention to it, there is a date to put it into effect on January 1st of this year. Obviously, it's not real anymore, and from the first January of next year, that's to say, when we're working on it, let's take that into account. In general, we will not vote on it. The draft Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of children with disabilities, the Timoshenko project, is under consideration. Registration number 1146. But it is written what Suškević will report. Yes, and he's one of the authors. Please, Valery Mikhailovich. He is also one of the authors of this bill. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u245	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I was hoping you'd support the disabled. And as for the situation that's there since the new year or the following year, it's a second reading, and I certainly expected you to support the most difficult categories of people with disabilities. What is involved in this law. This law was written two years ago, and it was worked back in the days of Prime Minister Timoshenko, who took the initiative to address the problem of child disability. The bill, it's incredibly new conceptually, it tells us that today, really, children with disabilities, who are 158 thousand in Ukraine, and to my conviction, it's a fraction, unfortunately. The situation is that the situation in the family has virtually not been resolved by the State today. And today all that affects children with disabilities is financed by the State in relation to institutions that should help children with disabilities, not the problems of children with disabilities in the family. And that's the main problem. So the state spends the main costs on the internet, on the establishments, not on the fact that the person with the disabled child is spending it. The main idea of the bill is to introduce social certificates for children with disabilities. The Social Certificate provides for the availability of cashless funds at the expense of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And according to the legislation in force, which provides for the solution of a problem involving a child with disabilities in our society, and the legislation in force provides for prosthetics and sanatorium treatments, and other moments, although not all are being done. Fits to the completion of this social certificate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u246	Thank you, Valery Mikhailovich. Well, say two words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u247	The family can solve the question, send these funds to the disabled child, so that these funds, as is now known, are not spent on the institution, but on the disabled child. Dear colleagues, I would very much like to support this law and to think that we can still support children with disabilities in Ukraine. The last thing that touches.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u248	Valeriy Mikhailovich, please don't abuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u249	I'm very short. The amount of money. Today, the social certificate is provided in the body of the law, the bill states that the government can fill this social certificate in stages, i.e. do not make a large amount, start with a small, and more and more. So, based on the possibilities of the State Budget. Please support this extremely important and necessary bill for children with disabilities in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u250	Thank you. Valerius Mikhailovich, to be sure: The more we agitate, the worse the result. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Please, from the committee. Please sit down. There are no questions. From the Radziewski Committee. I can't see. Who's from the committee? The designated Radziewsky, but. Please, Cibenka, please, head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u251	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, the committee carefully studied this legislative initiative by Valery Mikhailovich. Indeed, it deserves attention. What's more, we're talking a lot today about the need for socially vulnerable population categories not to run, not to look for a copy that belongs to them as a representative of a socially vulnerable population category, and for the money and the benefits they're entitled to to to go after a person. You know, we often use the term “money should follow a man, not a man to follow this money”. Therefore, the committee, taking into account the social significance of the bill, supported it and invited the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the proposed legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u252	Thank you. Shall we vote? No, some people do. Who's up for it, who's up for it? Baby, please. Apparently, that's not where they pressed the button. I remind you once again, dear colleagues. Once again, whoever wants to support the bill is pushing the green button, the one against it is pushing the red button. Apparently, it's a little off. Please, it's easy to sign up. Put your hands down, please. I'm not in charge of technology.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u253	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. It was easy to sign up for one, but I hope he'll vote for the whole room. And please pass on the word to Mikola Tomenko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u254	Tomenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u255	Dear colleagues, I wanted to pay attention to the ideology and concept of this bill. We have repeatedly debated how the individual decisions of Parliament or the government to resolve this difficult issue. And this money, it's an innovation for Ukraine, but it's a norm for a lot of civilized democratic countries, when the country, coming out of its understanding of the protection of children and more, children with disabilities, defines a specific amount, not for the director of the institution, not for the local organization, and so on, but for a particular child. That doesn't mean that once we've passed this bill, we're going to make some fantastic award for this certificate, and this kid is going to have the right to use it. Valeriy Suškević is absolutely right that we have, by the way, some experiments in certain areas where there is a possibility for the government and all experts to see how this system works. But obviously, if you go to boarding school today, you know, we have the normative documents, we have the children who in boarding schools per month seem to be there, like, 1.5 bracelets or 1 bracelet 20 copies. They don't know what money is. They live in the twenty - first century. Therefore, we need to go to the first reading in an orderly manner. Work between first and second reading. See how this system can function effectively. We have to raise children with disabilities in a normal civilized environment, not in a closed room where they don't know real life. So I'd like to ask all of our colleagues from the Party of Regions in particular to give the first reading an opportunity to accept and work on the second.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u256	I'm voting on adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on the provision of organisational and legal conditions for the social protection of children with disabilities, registration number 1146. [[14:04:23]] For-200 Who's in charge of sending a draft for work? The factions? Let's see the factions. I think that's how you can see it. Region Party 3, Timoshenko Block 115, Ukraine Party 54, Socialist Party 25, Communists 21, non-fractional 2 Socialists - 5. Did I say how much? I'm sorry. Five. Socialists five, communists twenty-one, non-fractional two. Who's in charge of sending a draft for work? [[14:05:15]] For 398 Decision taken. I went on for 15 years. So we have another little law, and we're just going to take a break. There's nothing to give by factions here, if 398. Let's do factions, because Sulkovsky didn't get his bearings. Region Party – 177, “Block Timoshenko” – 115, “Our Ukraine” – 50, socialists - 30, communists – 21, non-factional – 5. A draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine is under consideration. [[on personal pensioners of local importance]] National Deputy Zibenka's project, registration number 2356. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u257	Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, the essence of the bill, which I have proposed as the author, is to add to the law “On pensions for special merit before Ukraine” those people who in their time received the status of pensioners of local importance, the personal pensions of local importance. I want to make this clear, as you can see, it's not about ministers, it's not about MPs, it's not about others, it's about representatives of other authorities. This is about people who walk and work on the real earth. Among them is a mechanic, one of whom is a member of the local council, such as a nurse, and so forth. I believe that this document must be supported. And second, with the opportunity, I want to correct the false information that walks around the hall, as if it were tens of thousands of people and billions of expenses. I have the official data of the Pension Fund in my hands. These people today throughout Ukraine, to this day, I emphasize, there are 2,000, 800 people. By January 1, 2008, when this law was to take effect, these people would be much smaller. It's about expenses. Maximum weight, the price of this law is 2 and a half million, not billions, 2 and a half million out of 1 January 2008. I ask all my colleagues to support this bill, which is extremely important and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u258	Thank you. The head of the committee’s subcommittee on pensioners, veterans, and invalids, Mestipan Uljana Mikolayevna, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u259	Dear friends! This is how you want to turn to everyone about those people who have only 2.8 thousand left. But what is the main point that I want to pay attention to? That it's not particularly big there they're going to have big pensions, it's those people over 70 years old, less than 70 years old people aren't here, that's the first. The other one. That all of these people get a pension of up to 400 dollars, and if we adopt this law, according to the legislation, they're going to have 25 percent just to pay the living minimum, that's 73.92 bracelets in total, up to the 380 that they get. So to talk about some kind of fiction, you don't have to talk about some cosmic numbers. You feel such a noise that the former party workers will get it. For one thing, former party workers weren't the worst people, they were the best. That's the first one. And second of all, for those people who get a local pension, there's people there, and milkmaids and pigs, and heads of the boards, and all those people who deserve to be treated by us in a year, we're human pigs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u260	Thank you. They want to speak out, who wants to support the push of the green button, who's against the push of the red button, and those I don't think will be in the hall. Some have not made it this time, Kamchatny, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u261	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! I would like to support the previous speakers who introduced this bill and say that this is about establishing just historical justice. The point is that there was no such term for special merit before. And indeed, those who have received pensions of local importance are people who have really put a lot of energy and health on the altar of our nation. And just today, after the emergence of such a law that allows for the establishment of small amounts of special merit, we should just today have this historic justice in order to establish these people and also distribute the act of this law. I support, once again, these people and I urge everyone to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u262	Kulczynski, please sign up for me. Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u263	There is no doubt that the State should care for the creation of adequate pension insurance for veterans, many who have special merit in the eyes of the state. Their work, achievements in science, and sports contributed to the economic development of the former Soviet State. But when we look at the changes to the special merit law before Ukraine, we must also remember that the totalitarian communist state, with fire and sword, created a new “community”, the “Soviet people” and millions of Ukrainian patriots were destroyed in the concentration camps of an immense empire. I would stress that those people who created war and labor have nothing to do with the Kremlin's policy of genocide, or with the physical destruction of Ukrainian intelligence, or with the persecution of dissidents in the 1960s or 1980s. Thus, they are fairly entitled to a special credit before Ukraine. To assign another group, including former personal pensioners of local importance, who are usually representatives of the corporate nomenclature, means a step to the past, when there were specialists and specialists and special servants and specialists for this privileged class of Soviet times. Today, the Ukrainian State should consider the families of those tens and hundreds of imprisoned political prisoners in concentration camps, including Stus, and Litwin, and Tychius. And the Supreme Council also has to take away the sin of cruelty and ingratitude and compare the social security of UPA veterans to war veterans, because their incredible sacrifice for Ukraine's freedom will be a floor worthy in the ages. The problem of properly providing these categories of our citizens with non-numerable, yes, non-numerical, should be created solely on the basis of justice and social harmony, and pension legislation should not allow for a huge gap in pension insurance. The “Our Ukraine” faction believes that the law is unfair in relation to other categories and urges it to reject it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m0.u264	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. I am voting on adopted as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Retirements to Ukraine on Personal Pensioners of Local Value. Please vote. [[14:13:19]] For-94 Not accepted. Who's for sending a draft bill? Please vote. [[14:13:41]] For-300 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's have another vote, we have another one. Just press the button so we don't waste time. We considered this by means of a simplified procedure those issues that were not considered yesterday. The decision to consider them as a reduced procedure was made yesterday. Then we have a chapter following a simplified procedure of issues that need to be considered today. I'm betting on the vote so that we can discuss the following issues after lunch. Please vote. [[14:14:30]] For 276 Decision taken. Thank you. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. It's the beginning of the evening session at 4:00 p.m.
