ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u1	Honourable deputies and guests of the Supreme Council, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, invited, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today 13 numbers, Tuesday. We've got Government Day on schedule. On this day it is envisaged to raise an important question about the protection and social and moral condition of the veterans of the Great Homeland War. But before that, I'd like to invite everyone to welcome Helen Fedorovna Bondarenko to her birthday, even if she's not in the hall. That is to say, for the transcript, the text of today's information to the government on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on the social, legal and moral protection of war veterans. The government has appointed the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, Michael Mikolaiovich, and the Minister of Health will then be able to provide answers to questions relating to the narrow profile of veteran health institutions. That's why I give the floor to Michael Mikolaiovich. Oh, register. I'm sorry, I was in a hurry and I missed one moment. I'm putting the vote, not the vote, the registration issue. Please register with the deputies. [[10:02:29]] Registered - 424 This was followed by the desire of 424 deputies to participate. Not everyone's in the hall yet, but we can start work anyway. And the word is Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. From the procedure? And Peter Cibenko will have a report for eight minutes. Ten minutes, okay. Papieuve will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In Ukraine, there is a system of legislation on the social protection of war veterans that determines the State’s obligation to create decent living conditions for war veterans, to ensure their interests, rights and needs, and to perpetuate the exploits of our fellow countrymen. They are carried out by the Government on social, medical and pension security for war veterans, on the development of new social programs to protect this important part of our society. Today, there are 2.9 million people living in Ukraine. War veterans. Of these, 268 thousand. War invalids, 375 000 Fighters, 2 million 300 grand. Those who are involved in the war. The material provision of war veterans is carried out by assigning them pensions, providing various forms of financial assistance. Between 2003 and 2006, there was a positive trend in pension growth. By the beginning of 2005, our government had secured a pension payment of not less than a subsistence minimum for disabled persons. After the introduction of the U.S. National Pension Insurance Act, the average amount of pension payments has increased considerably compared to the previous years. If on January 1, 2003, it was 136, it was 316 and 478 as of January 1, 2005. The structure of pension recipients is substantially improved by their size. If before the introduction of the pension law there were higher living minimums of only 4 percent of pensioners, as of January 1, 2007, 86 percent. Last year, there was an increase in pensions for war veterans, more than twice, for war invalids, since 1 January 2006, and for combat participants since 1 July 2006. Since January 1, this year, an increase of more than 2 million wargoers has nearly quadrupled. Thus, the government has fully implemented the law on the establishment of pensions for war veterans, deriving from the minimum of living. That's exactly what refutes the allegations that standards for improving pension insurance were stalled in 2007. Overall, the 2007 Pension Fund's expenditure will amount to over 90 billion dollars, three times during the year to increase the minimum wage for war veterans, and as of March 1st to introduce an increase in pensions at least by 20 per cent of the rate of increase in the average wage in the economy of Ukraine. More than half a million war veterans will receive special credit for their work and service. In addition, all persons with disabilities of war and those involved in hostilities will be paid additionally to their pension every month for the purpose of receiving financial assistance in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Improving the Material Status of War Workers and Persons with Disabilities. Every year, until Victory Day, war veterans receive a single payment of money. The assistance provided to war invalids, participants in hostilities, members of families of dead and dead war veterans under the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act will be paid in sizes three times higher than those established in 2003. Life - support for war veterans is supported by a system of benefits and compensation. The country’s distinguished national deputies, the financial security of the benefits and subsidies, are being channelled in the form of a subsidy from the State Budget to the local budgets, the volume of which is increasing annually, as shown in the next slide. I would like to point out that, since December 2006, a simplified procedure has been established for the allocation of housing subsidies, reduced the number of necessary documents, extended to three months the term of appeal, during which subsidies may be granted after the increase in housing and utilities tariffs. In addition, since 2007, the mandatory percentage of housing and utility payments for families made up of pensioners and other incapacitated citizens has been reduced from 20 to 15 percent of the total income of the family. In 2006, 47,000 telephones were installed by war veterans with a total of 10 million dollars. An amount of 200 million dollars has been paid to reduce the cost of communications services. During the 2005-2006 period, five thousand veterans were currently being rehabilitated, the current and capital repairs of tens of thousands of war veterans were carried out to implement the Law on the Status of War Veterans. Since the following year, the law will be valid for free of charge repairs to homes of war invalids. This is the law that the Supreme Council voted last fall. In 2006, at the expense of local executives and local authorities. Money has been provided for nearly 50 million bracelets. For mobile telephone veterans about one million dollars, half a million dollars were paid monthly scholarships to war veterans who were 100 years of age or older. To implement the Social Services Act in Ukraine, a new impetus has been gained by the development of the State social services system and the provision of social services to this category of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u3	I'd like to ask the minister to report in 15 minutes. Please. Can you please show 15 minutes for the reporter?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u4	Over half a million war veterans receive various forms of social services at their homes. Through the network of district social services centres for pensioners and lonely, inefficient citizens of the Minpraci system. At present, there are 743 circuit centers, which provide about 45 different types of services. The terr separation. Centers allow war veterans to stay, not to stay under difficult conditions, but to live in normal conditions, to continue to maintain family and social ties. The number of compartments for the temporary or permanent residence of veterans is increasing each year. In particular, by the beginning of this year, they had increased by 50 in comparison to 2005 and had 341 offices with 15,000 people. The new form of social service for war veterans is to create for them a residence for specialised residential buildings with a complex of socio-occupational services and 24-hour medical services. Today, there are nine such houses, with some 700 people. To date, there are 87 homes in Ukraine for elderly and disabled citizens who have 7,000 veterans of war living in full government. There are 25 boarding houses for veterans of war and work for 5,000 places where comfortable communal living conditions are created. One of the ways in which the legislation is implemented, about the social services of veterans, is to provide them with sanitation. In 2006, 51,000 veterans, including 17,000 war veterans, were cured by labour and social protection agencies. War invalids. The state of sanitation in recent years on the slide shows a steady improvement in the situation. However, war veterans are not fully equipped with travel, and this must be acknowledged. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The government pays great attention to the issue of health care. Thus, all war veterans are subject to dissipation in the treatment and prevention facilities and an annual comprehensive medical examination. If needed, war veterans are provided with medical and hospital assistance. A total of 882,000 war veterans were treated in hospitals at preventive hospitals in 2006. Currently, there are 31 hospitals and 28 hospital rooms with a bed fund of 8,800 beds in Ukraine. War invalids who need prosthetic aid, other rehabilitation facilities are provided free of charge. Last year, 197 million dollars were allocated to provide individual population categories, including war veterans by technical and other means of rehabilitation, 25 million more than in 2005. However, for 2007, the government provides for the provision of individual population categories by technical and other means of rehabilitation one and a half times the amount in 2006, and it will amount to 266 million dollars. In addition, 77 million dollars are allocated for the first time to restock prosthetic orthopaedic enterprises in the State Budget this year. Another 100 million dollars will be devoted to the introduction of investment technologies in the production of technology for the rehabilitation of people with disabilities. Taking this opportunity, I would like to thank the Ukrainian National Deputies that these proposals were supported by the government when the 2007 budget was adopted. Between 2002 and 2006, over 8,000,400 cars were purchased from the State Budget for disabled veterans. In 2007, it was changed to a modern model of a car provided by disabled persons from the “Tavria” brand to the “Slavuta” brand. With a view to improving the situation of disabled people, a special transport service is being carried out to find additional sources of their arrival, including humanitarian aid. In the past year alone, about 2,000 people with disabilities received cars. In 2006, 33,000 war invalids received compensation for gasoline, repairs, maintenance of cars, and transportation. However, the size of these compensations remains insufficient. Dear colleagues, in the area of moral protection, the government cannot fail to be in solidarity with the veteran organizations and supports the public organizations of veterans in ensuring deep respect for each veteran, preserving the memory of the defenders of the country. The government's support will mark this year's 20-year anniversary of the creation of the Ukrainian veteran organization. The status quo of 10 all-U.S. civil organisations is supported by the financial resources of the State budget. In 2006, 2 million dollars were earmarked for this purpose. In 2007, it's 2.5 times higher, and it's 7 million dollars. With the aim of forming national consciousness, respect for veterans of war since 2005 there has been an annual Veteran Day celebration in Ukraine – October 1st, which coincides with the International Age Day. Central and local executive authorities, local self-government bodies, together with civil war veterans' organizations, are ensuring the implementation of the Ukrainian law on the perpetuation of victory in the Great Homeland War in 1941-1945. Arrangements are being made to commemorate holidays and memorable dates, to preserve brotherly graves, architectural, and sculptures that perpetuate the memory of war and its participants. A high level of government celebrates the Day of Victory each year. Education facilities in the regions pay considerable attention to the patriotic upbringing of children and young people, organize meetings of veterans of war with student youth, campaigns of martial arts, visits to military and patriotic museums, and conduct educational and thematic classes. The government will take all measures to further develop the social protection and war veterans system, ensuring that legislation is implemented for the provision of benefits and guarantees, other forms of social support. The priority for the government is to raise the level of budget funding for individual programmes of social support for veterans in order to fully meet the needs of war veterans in sanatorium treatment, to increase the amount of compensation for self-salary health care, to compensate for gasoline, to repair, to provide technical services for cars and technical services, and to provide transport services, to disabled persons with special transportation services. Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, a government oriented towards a broad partnership with the Supreme Council of Ukraine to address these issues, to improve legislation on the social protection of war veterans. Taking into account the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on February 7, this year has restored the activities of the State Committee on Veterans. Improving public administration in this area will improve the implementation of State policy on the protection of veterans, their rights and interests. And using what the Government Day is broadcast today on television and radio, I would like to turn to war veterans. Dear war veterans, today's report by the government on the state of implementation of Ukraine's legislation on social, legal and moral protection of veterans in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is a report by the executive authority on what has been done in recent years for representatives of the most respected part of our society. Each one of you, critically appreciating what has been said, can evaluate our work on his own. As a minister, I also see the trends and programs that need to be strengthened, but the attitude of a civilized civil society towards its veterans should not be measured simply by an evaluation of the implementation of existing legislation. Each of us as a son, grandson, or grandson of a war veteran, and I, in particular, bear the moral responsibility for the welfare of these people. So let's put together the efforts of Parliament and the President, the government and the local authorities and self-government, the public and every working group in order to look honestly, and I have spoken today, with General Frontiarch, the head of the deputy corps of Ukraine, John Alexander Gerasimov, to have the moral right to tell him and his battle brothers: we have done everything for you, to improve your life, which we can and will do and we will try to do even more. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u5	Thank you. The report is complete. Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, we have an opportunity for 45 minutes today to ask the minister a question. And I would like to ask the deputies to sign up for the question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikolaiovich. Please sign up. Thank you. Light up, please. Mikailo Mikolaiovich, we have a tradition: one question that came to you from the deputies and committees, one that was signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u6	Thank you. Let's start with some complicated questions. The deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko. How does the government plan to ensure in 2007 the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection with regard to the provision of annual one-time financial assistance to war veterans by 5 May in a fixed-sized manner, if Ukraine's State Budget 2007 provides for a reduction of this assistance by one-and-a-half times? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I immediately refute the statement that the expenditure of the State budget for 2007 has been reduced by one and a half times. If the actual implementation of the 2006 budget allocations amounted to 362 million dollars, 380 million dollars were invested in the 2007 budget for the payment of one-time aid to war invalids and war participants. In addition, these payments for the first-group war invalids have been increased by a one-time payment of 450 dollars, 50 dollars more than last year, 400 dollars for the second-group war disabled, 360 dollars for the third-group war disabled, 280 dollars for the fighting and 55 dollars for the war participants. I think there's going to be another question, why are these sizes, the oral question, and I can give you a deeper answer, and add to that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u7	Thank you. National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u8	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, I have two questions. First. The size and payment of gas compensation, transportation to war veterans, is extremely low. Will they be increased this year? The other one. What are the prospects for the return of money savings to war veterans and what the government is proposing, the ministry will do to address this issue, to speed up the resolution of this extremely painful issue, which is causing great resonance in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u9	Thank you. The country's honourable national deputies, yes, the situation is difficult enough, but we are trying to resolve each year with an improvement in the issue of increasing monetary compensation. For example, for the current year, we have a one-and-a-half increase in compensation for gasoline, car maintenance, 142 bracelets, and 192 bracelets for transportation. The overall budget allocations for these goals have also increased by one and a half times over the past year. I would ask, Mr. People's Deputies of Ukraine, that we unite this issue with one of the most painful issues for veterans and war invalids: this is the issue of special transportation. Because if you look at what we have today, 158 thousand people with disabilities in line to provide free special cars, and these two things are connected, then we, I'm sure, together with you, will have to solve this issue in a complex way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u10	Thank you. Chechetov National Deputy, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u11	Please give the floor to the national MP Kozakov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u12	Kozakov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u13	Kozakov, faction of the Party of the Regions, Hersonian. Mr. Secretary, according to the current legislation, war veterans are entitled to extended housing services. With higher prices and tariffs on residential services, or with the right of veterans in the full range, whether there is sufficient funding in the state budget for these purposes, how subsidies are distributed between regions. And last year, it showed that in a number of areas, financial resources were not fully available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u14	Thank you. For the current year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been proposed, and the Supreme Council has supported and consolidated this position in the State Budget 2007 Act on Grants, the granting of benefits and subsidies to the population has been increased by 2.2 times, and this amount amounts to about 5 billion. That's right. Besides, you know that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine simplifies the order of grants, first. Secondly, the total income of the family has been reduced, which gives me the right to receive subsidies for families that are made up of disabled citizens from 20 percent of the total income to 15 percent of the total income, and I am grateful to the Ukrainian National Deputies that you did not support the draft of the Ukrainian Law, submitted by Julia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, because that law has worsened conditions for veterans and disabled persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u16	It's a written question. Science and Education Committee. What measures are being taken to protect war veterans morally by the government of Ukraine to restore the work of the museums of the Great Homeland War, the war halls of fame in schools, vocational and higher education institutions that have stopped such activities in the last fifteen years? But was such work done in active museums and museums of educational institutions? It is the school museums that play a major role in the events of the Great Homeland War. And when we were preparing this Government Day, just in conjunction with the Ministry of Education and Science, we got information, by the way, the situation doesn't look as bad as it looks. The Ministry of Education and Science has reregistered museums that are looking after the events of the Great Homeland War. And this number is now 2 000,520 of such institutions, more than 740 for 1998. In addition, such measures are under way to revitalize the country's youth movement, their research and research activities as part of the movement of Ukraine's student youth, My Land, the Land of My Ancestors. Our young people also take part separately, and they actively accept, in such actions as: “Memory”, “Mercy”, “Turbota”, “Veteran”, “Estapheta of Memory”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u17	Thank you. National MP Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u18	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u19	Lily Grigorovich's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u20	Lilia Grigorovich. “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, we have 2720465 veterans of war in our country. Please tell me how they've been affected by their tariff hikes, because I think that, including them, having received utility records, they said that life has not improved today, and that's why I wouldn't be so optimistic about the fact that the law that was proposed by the opposition to protecting our citizens from tariffs was not supported. And the second question of moral protection. Both the authorities, and the opposition, and the Party of Regions, and our Ukraine, and the government, and the military, are all because this country is Ukraine. And as for the moral protection of UPA veterans, because the 100-year decision of Yuri Suhevich was somehow rejected. What, then, about the moral protection of all who make this country?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, in view of the fact that the answer is now set and limited to one minute, I would like to give an answer both to the first half and to the second. So, why am I against the law that challenged me on Friday? Because today, if families of disabled citizens have 15 percent of the family’s total income, which gives them the right to subsidies, the law was designed to worsen conditions and set 20 percent. In addition, the increase in tariffs was linked to an increase in the average wage. If you take into account the example of Kiev, Kiev, you know that the average wage in 2000 and the tariff in Kiev hasn't increased since 2000, it's 244 bracelets, today we have an average monthly salary of 1,040 dollars, if we acted under this law, it would give the city of Kiev the right to raise tariffs not 3.5 times as much as it was, but 4.5 times. That's why I was against it, and I was adamant that they wouldn't support it. We're being simplified by the government right now, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, by the way, Reduced to 15 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u22	Allow me to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u23	It's about the UPA soldiers. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! Today, as Minister, I claim that the issue of social security and social equality among UPA soldiers who have the status of participants in hostilities is regulated by the basic law, which is article 6, paragraph 16, which states that the right to the status of participants in hostilities is enjoyed by those UPA soldiers who, between 1941 and 1944, took part in hostilities against German-Fashistic invaders, committed no crimes against peace and humanity, and who have been rehabilitated in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Rehabilitation of Victims of Political Repression in Ukraine. That is, there is a need for a legislative basis for settling this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u24	Thank you. Please have a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u25	Oh, letters. Whether the government owns information on the number of privatized establishments and social and health care facilities for war veterans, as well as on the legality and validity of such privatization. This is a matter for a special commission on privatization. As I stand on this rostrum, I say that from 2002 to 2005, when our government worked, as it has since August 2006, no square metre of land has gone away. Six sanatoriums work in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on the List of Property Rights that Are Not Privatized, these sanitariums have been added to this list of objects, i.e. they are under no circumstances and can never be privatized, and this issue is settled by law. Also in terms of state and municipal property. 320 boarding houses that exist and operate in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy system are also subject to a list of sites that are not subject to privatization under any conditions. And the government adheres to that standard. We're expanding the network and the sanatorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u26	Thank you. National Deputy Stoyan, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u27	Alexander Stoyan, “Parties of the Regions” faction. Dear reporter, you know, it's been 60 years since Victory Day, and we see that there is today such a shameful problem as setting up telephones for veterans. I want to ask you: Is today the turn of this particular category? When will this problem be resolved? Because they're people who don't need cell phones, they need normal phones to call a doctor. And the second question is, can you tell me if there's a fund or is it budgeted, or is there any other way of providing material assistance for the treatment of veterans? Because what we're saying is that drugs are free, and we know that virtually very few of these drugs, and veterans are forced to pay from their pockets these tiny pensions. Is this a form of such a foundation or something else to provide material assistance to our respected veterans for treatment as well as for housing and other problems? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u28	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian national deputies, the question posed by Alexander Mikolaiovich, is painful for veterans, and it must be admitted that there is a turn to set phones today. If you remember this, 22,000 war invalids are on the line, 30,000 wartime participants and 113,000 warlords and another 11,000 who are subject to the rules of the basic law. So if 47,000 phones are installed in 2006 and we're going to go at this rate, we're going to settle this in four years. But our government has a desire and we are now focusing, giving special attention to solving this issue over the course of the two years 2007-2008. In addition, you know that the State budget for compensation to war veterans is still foreseen and 200 million dollars for this year are earmarked for 270 million dollars.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u29	Thank you. A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u30	“What measures have been taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure the rights of military personnel, war veterans and military service to effective free medical benefits in connection with the reform of the Ukrainian Armed Forces?” This is a question of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, about 320,000 war veterans and war veterans are legally entitled to free medical care in the Ministry of Defence. There are 21 military hospitals and a military medical centre in place to provide qualified medical care for veterans in the Ministry of Defence. Every year, there are about 36,000 veterans permanently treated in military hospitals, and this number is steadily increasing. There are 400,000 veterans receiving outpatient care each year and 7 clinicians. And there are also nine military sanatoriums that also do sanatorium treatments for war veterans who were military veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u31	Vladimir Stretović, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u32	Vladimir Stretović, Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear Mr. Minister, you said in today's report that the ministry is completely innovative: providing veterans with mobile phones." Nothing offends older people as much as injustice. Please tell us what criteria are based on: Who do you provide with mobile phones, whom you do not provide, by what normative act, are the Ministry's orders regulated, what approaches do they rely on in this practice? That's the first part of the question. And in mobile communication, it is not so important to buy a mobile phone, such as to provide a connection, to pay for it. So, please tell me, does your ministry take care of these veterans with a mobile phone, pay extra amounts, or is it firmly placed in the card itself that they can use a certain amount of money by mobile phone during the month? Thank you. I think it'll be interesting for the veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u33	Thank you. Honorary National Deputys of Ukraine, the Ministry has a grant from the State Budget in the form of subsidies to local budgets to install fixed telephones. At the initiative of local governments, for example, I have experience in both Dnipropetrovsk and Kharkiv, and Lugansk, in remote settlements where a fixed telephone line is virtually impossible. Thus, local self - government agencies estimate the costs and purchase mobile phones for war and war veterans. And a person has the ability to call a “quick” and sign up for a doctor's appointment. Today, I am interested in being a minister, how these people are guaranteed their legal right to telephone, free of charge. Both local governments, and I am grateful to them, provide in the local budgets for the cost of personal accounts, and people have the ability to speak free within an hour of the month.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u34	Thank you. A written question, please. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u35	Oh, letters. Now. Twenty questions from the Socialist Party. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The numerous petitions of war invalids to the faction express dissatisfaction that the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and their guarantees of social protection regarding free treatment, medical care, sanatorium treatment are not being implemented. Veterans call these standards utopian. What concrete steps will be taken by the government to remedy the situation? Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, well, to say that today we have such a good situation and all the questions solved, I can't. Because the situation is difficult enough, but it has trends, trends for improvement. I am convinced that the anti-crisis coalition, by working together with the government, will be able to radically change the attitude towards war veterans and disabled people. For this reason, you know that today there is a steady increase in the number of hospitals serving war disabled people. If there were 28 in Ukraine, there are now 31 hospitals, where 7,257 have been treated in Ukraine in 2006 for 131 000 hospital beds. That's not enough, but if you take the trend and the pace, if four years ago this percentage of war invalids who used medical services, medical treatment, was 18%, it's now more than 24.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u36	Thank you. National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u37	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, by no means today, and in your questions and letters to the President, the Government, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is increasingly talking about moral protection of veterans, protection against moral injustice. Look at this, this is what our basic Law on the Status of War Veterans looks like. There are about 40 changes and additions. Unfortunately, some, well, one page is just a name. Regrettably, some of them, when introduced for good purposes like the recent tariff bill, turned out the other way around. So I have this question at the disposal of the All-U.S. War Disability Organization and the Armed Forces, please tell me if the Government is ready to consider re-establishing section 23 of the first part of article 13 of the Act of 1994 3551-12 on the exemption of war invalids from the payment of import duties, customs and excise duties and the value added tax on goods imported into the customs territory of Ukraine. You know that some of these products are vital to their life, such as cars for the disabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u38	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! You know that the right of legislative initiative is exercised by each of the 450 national deputies in Ukraine. You have the constitutional right to submit your draft Ukrainian law. However, from the time they studied the issue of imports into Ukraine under extended conditions, especially automobiles, a sufficient number of violations were detected. That is why the law enforcement authorities had to make that decision. Although today there is a standard for the import of cars with disabilities as humanitarian aid. And this car is not subject to import duties and taxes. And last year, according to the information in our ministry, two thousand people with disabilities took advantage of this right. That is how decisions are to be made, but we need to make a careful decision so that we can anticipate all possible risks and consequences and not be able to make use of such a standard.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u39	Letters, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u40	Many questions. Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine This applies to the Ukrainian State Budget Act, which sets the amount of one-time annual cash assistance paid to war invalids and war participants by 5 May. Why is such a standard established? I'd like to give you an answer within this one minute. The point is, if you look at the rule of law that was and was basic, it states that by 5 May, every person with the first group of wars should receive ten minimum pensions by age, the second group with disabilities eight, the third group with disabilities seven and so on. The Act on “Generally Compulsory State Pension Insurance”, which sets the very issue of pension insurance and pension insurance, states that the minimum pension, which is set at the minimum standard of subsistence, is set only to calculate the amount of pensions. [[I'd like to pay attention to this conflict of laws.]] Thus, one law prohibits doing what is provided for in the basic law on the status of war veterans and the guarantee of their social protection. That's why the government, along with the Ukrainian National Deputies, is now planning to regulate this legal co-operation in order to set the amount of one-off payments in those amounts that would satisfy both veterans and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u41	National Deputy Kozub, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u42	National Deputy Cosub, Zaporozhye District. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, we meet with voters in the territory and for the often and most numerous questions, of course, at our receptions are war veterans with their questions. We have to say that your representatives are considerate and generous souls who put their souls into work with veterans, and that is what we thank them for. But it is not a unique case when a veteran moves from the station to the plant, collecting some information, and we do not need to allow it. And I'd like to wish for the workers not to be lazy, to be generous to the soul. But there are questions that prevent them from working in the territory. You know that not all the money has been paid in full for the victory day, for example, in the Tokmati district. The next question. How does the Cabinet of Ministers plan to address the issue of the satisfaction of these lawsuits of war veterans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u43	Thank you. This is the continuation of my previous question and the answer. That's a weird thing to do. Here we have examined, and the court’s actions, most of which have been filed throughout Ukraine, have been filed in the Tokmati district itself with regard to the one - time assistance provided under the law by May 5. I would like to stress once again, the honourable national deputies of Ukraine, we recognize that there is a legal coalition for applying the minimum age pension, which is set at the sum of living minimum for the purpose of paying this one-time assistance. We're constantly increasing it and let's work together on this problem so that we don't annoy the war invalids with this issue because it's, you know, a transitional red flag that's been going through since 1993 how this rule was established and every year the State Budget Act has been regulated in some way. Let's settle this once and for all for the sake of veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u44	A written question, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u45	Committee on Social Policy and Labour. How do the executives cooperate with the public organizations of veterans, how much help is given to veteran organizations to carry out their activities? Do all local budgets provide financial support for veteran organizations? The country's honourable national deputies, Ukraine today has 28 all-U.S. civil organisations that care for the problems of war veterans and the government, as well as the Ukrainian National Deputies, and this is enshrined in the Act on the State Budget, which provides for annual assimilations to ensure the statutory activity of these social organizations. If last year they amounted to 2 million 770,000, which is not enough, for the next year, together with the Committee on Veterans, Pensioners and Disabled Persons, this amount was increased by two and a half times, and for this year it is 7 million dollars. In agreement with public organizations, we have made a transparent distribution between all the Ukrainian public organizations and the local budgets, and this is a question to answer, about 6 million a year for the stated goals. But that's not enough money, so we agreed to decide if it's time, me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u46	Thank you. The people’s MP Marmazov conveys the word to the national deputy Matthew, a faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear Mikhailo Mikolaiovich! A 999 - year - old government decree that, if I don’t have a memory change, about eight years ago, it is stipulated that a car that is given a war disability in the event of his death is transferred to another person with a disability. So it's practically about the mess that's passed on to the next person with disabilities. I think it's a shame. We demean both the disabled and the members of their families. So when, though, will the government undo this shameful decision? And the second. I received a letter from Poltava, a member of the fighting effort from Kharchenko Ivan Gordjiyovich, who says that today in the BSS system they refuse to serve border officers. Hence, they have no opportunity to avoid treatment, no travel, and so forth. As you can see, what.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u48	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I support this very expression with both my hands, that the 999 decree regulating the provision of disabled people's special services is shameful. For those changes that were made in July of last year before this decree, they demean both veterans and invalids. By the way, I'm reporting to the Ukrainian People's Deputies that a month ago the Ministry made changes to this decision, and this project has already been passed by the government committee and will be put on the government as soon as possible. But there is a problem, what? The point is that we plan to leave the car that was obtained through the primary management of work and social protection in the event of the death of a disabled person in a disabled family. Yet there are contradictions, and that is what the Ministry of Economics and other ministries are now claiming, with ownership issues. Because at the start, this car is owned by the main department of labor and social protection. How is it legislative to ensure the transfer of this right of ownership? And that's the question. But that's a legal question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u49	Thank you. It's a written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u50	Thank you. Questions. How do the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, in particular regarding the right of war veterans to free health care and compensation for the cost of self-sacrifice? Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! War invalids, and this is provided by law, just like those who engage in combat, like those who participate in war have the right to every year or twice a year to provide free sanatorium treatment. If a war veteran does not take advantage of this right, the law provides for compensation for travel costs. Yet there is such a problem, and again it must be solved. Today, the compensations that are foreseen are much lower than the actual cost of travel. So, if, for example, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy system, the average cost of travel is between 900 and 1200 dollars, Ukraine's State Budget Act provides 200 dollars of compensation for unused sanitation. That's why I'm convinced that for the next two years.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u51	National Deputy Bogchuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u52	Vasil Bogchuk Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Mr. Minister! When I listened to you, I realized that it was the Ministry's priority to work is to buy mobile phones and buy cars. I was on these shows where the heads of administration were handing over cars, and the head as a showman was acting out of his own pocket, he was giving these cars, even though they were bought at government expense. I've had a lot of meetings, but there's another plan, and the question is, who's going to help the veteran out today to dig up the land, who's going to help fix the apartment? I was terrified when I was in this apartment. The most venerated people today live in half - decomposed houses, without warmth, without light, in basements, and in half - cellars. Gasification was carried out this year and no funds were found solely to support veterans and disabled persons. This is where these millions of cars and cars need to be sent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u53	Thank you. I support what you've said that the basic efforts of the government and the Ukrainian National Deputies should be aimed at improving the standard of living and ensuring that the laws of the disabled and the veterans enter. To say that everything is fine now and all the questions are solved I can't and have no right to. And that's why I'm telling you honestly: problems exist and let's solve them together. For example, you have touched on the problems of cars. You know, today, it's 158,000 people with disabilities. In order to provide for all persons with disabilities in accordance with the Law, the need for funds is 4.5 billion. That's right. So let's look at these costs with you, get into the government budget, and close this issue once and for all. If we're going to solve this problem at this rate this year, it's going to take 60 years. [[This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the ……]] Explain to me what kind of veteran lives to get a free car, which is his legal right. So let's decide together and let's not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u54	Thank you, Your Honor, for your written question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u55	Thank you. It's a written question. “How is Ukraine's Law on the Status of War Veterans implemented, guaranteeing their social protection” in part of the free passage of war veterans by all modes of transport of general use except taxi in rural areas?” Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, the right to the payment of war veterans is ensured by appropriate subsidies from the state budget to the local budgets. And the way in which these measures are financed from the implementation of state social protection programs, it just sets up a personalized account. And often the same veterans of the Great Homeland War, participants in other hostilities, turn to the fact that they can't use the right to do so. This problem also exists, especially when we moved away from public transport to private carriers. We need you and me. Although this is settled in the legislative plan, but to regulate the control mechanism, because there are several options, one of them is monetaryisation. But we've been communicating with veteran organizations that are today against the monetaryization of this benefit because it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u56	Let me finish, that's an important question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u57	Because this benefit is enshrined in the law and there is a clear and clear right to free travel in public transport. In addition, you know that there are other laws that establish the right of a war invalid and a war veteran to travel free of charge by rail, water, and air transport. In addition, you know the problem that exists today after the free passage of the SND countries that we're solving and we're resolving this issue now, and we've made the vouchers, and the books for free travel by the SND countries, and we're continuing negotiations with the Russian Federation and the Republic of Kazakhstan because they've moved on to the monetaryization of the benefits, and we're now looking for a mechanism for the realization of this right of Ukrainian citizens. I am convinced that if consciousness, including carriers, is raised to a level of respect for the legitimate rights and interests of veterans and war participants, then we will not have this issue at all. Regarding budget allocations. Yeah, there's also a problem of cost security, because this level of security is about 45-47 percent. I mean, you and I need to see this money in the government budget together.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u58	Thank you. You've answered the letter now, haven't you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u59	The honourable national deputies of Ukraine, I had just had a question about, and it's interesting, about providing free passage with the countries of SND. Whether the SND Inter-Governmental Agreement on Mutual Recognition of the Rights to Indemnity of Persons with Disabilities and Warfare is being implemented in connection with the replacement in individual countries of natural cash benefits, particularly in Russia and Kazakhstan. What is the position taken by the Government of Ukraine in ensuring that war veterans travel through the SND countries? How many citizens exercise that right? As I've drawn attention to it, there are a lot of letters coming to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy from veterans about the use of this right. This right is established by an agreement signed by the heads of government in March 1993. Today, a working group has been formed between nations to address this issue. Six meetings have already been held. The last meeting was held from 20 to 22 December 2006. It was with the five countries parties to this agreement that we settled this issue: Armenia, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova and Belarus. Yet there are countries: Russia and Kazakhstan with which these issues are difficult enough to deal with. I'm pretty sure by May 9, let's go with you guys and set this goal and we'll find these mechanisms. And now the situation has improved, the relationship with the Russian Federation. I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u60	Thank you. I do not see Lukyanov, a national deputy. It doesn't, does it? National deputy of the Red Cross, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u61	Thank you. The Red Cross, the Socialist Party. Mikhail Mikolaiovich, this is an interesting situation. I just got a call yesterday from Cherkas saying, “ Payments have come to pay for the phone. With reference to the law adopted last February, the disabled are paid a hundred percent and the veterans 50 percent. [[Mikhail Mikolaiovich, pay]] Something went wrong over there, I guess. I very much ask you to pay attention to this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u62	Thank you. The country's honourable national deputies, if this egregious fact is to be confirmed, there must already be arrangements for the appropriateness of the position of those responsible for this, because the law sets a clear standard: for war invalids there is a reduction in the salary and it is complete. And by the way, there's supposed to be an allocation in the budget if there's no funds in the budget. 270 million The money is available in the State Budget. In addition, the full cost of basic telephone installation work is available. And you know that only 20 percent of that amount is paid, and 50 percent of that discount is included in the budget. There's no problem with the State Budget. And maybe at the local level, it's even provocative, but we're definitely going to find out about this situation right here in the Chercas region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u63	Your Honor, are there still written questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u65	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u66	The question is, How is the issue of providing war veterans with means of rehabilitation resolved today? How many war veterans are in charge of obtaining them? Is sufficient financial resources allocated to the General Budget for this year for the stated purposes? Ukraine’s distinguished national deputies, compared with the 2006 State Budget, had 197 million people to provide transportation, prosthetics and orthodoxy. That's right. For the current year, for 2007, this amount has been significantly increased and amounts to 266 million. That's right. Besides that. I am grateful to the Ukrainian National Deputies: 70 million more are provided for in the law. The money to improve the quality of these products, because the disabled of war, they have the right to receive quality tools -- prosthetics, orthostics, wheelchairs. And today, the Kharkiv Institute of Research and Research for the Prosthetics of the Labour Ministry, by the way, has introduced a laboratory that carries out the certification of these products by standards and a WTO of nine thousand. In addition, there are another 100 million bracelets for the introduction of innovative models that we plan to make together with Ottobok, which is the leader in this field. [[Germany]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u67	National deputy Alexeiev gives the word of Zibenk Petra Stepanovich, a faction of Communists. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u68	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear Michael Mikolaiovich! Ukraine, like the rest of the world, has recently celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory over Fascism. You know very well that the direct participant in this war of rescuers of mankind from fascism is now in its 80 ’ s. I focus on the fact that there is virtually no time to repay our age-old debt to these people, and in view of that, I want to look to you and ask you how you, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is looking at the prospect of solving at least the most acute issues of this category of citizens. I'm talking about the question of return on savings, the issue of the provision of disabled people's special transportation, the issue of the introduction of a decent level of pension insurance, because we don't have much time anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u69	Thank you. The country's honourable national deputies, yes, report that the 2007 budget provides 650 million dollars for the savings that have been lost by Ukrainian citizens in the USSR Savings System. In addition, you know that the government's initiative back in 2003-2004 was to somehow introduce other compensations for these losses. The 6 million bracelets you're recalling were aimed at paying off the debt for residential services. However, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court, and we are obliged to implement this decision, which prohibits us from awarding Ukrainian citizens compensation according to age and other signs. If you look at, if you count this amount of savings that you have to pay back, 80 years for these citizens, if we go at this rate, it's going to take another 130 years, so we're going to have to solve the gerontological problem first. [[You know, there are different estimates -- 120 billion, 130 billion, but that's a significant number.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u70	Let me finish. That's the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u71	So that these people could live to be 170 years old and then get savings. Although if we are responsible politicians, if we are responsible citizens, because this problem concerns, first of all, our parents and grandparents, we have to exert ourselves for the next five years and create diverse mechanisms, both from the State Budget and other payments to pay off this moral, I would say yes, debt on the savings of Ukrainian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u72	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Time's up. Dear colleagues, as we have agreed, and our committee has proposed, we still have the opportunity to ask questions concerning the medical care of veterans. We have a deputy minister, Poor Valery Grigorovitch, who will answer these questions. Out of the place, please, Your Honor, give me 10 minutes -- a question to the Deputy Minister. Request to sign up for a question. Please. Please, National Deputy Ponomarenko, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u73	Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u74	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u75	Today, hundreds of letters of war and labor veterans are coming to the Communist faction, and most of the letters of war and labor veterans who say they don't have the ability to do so today are free of charge in our medical facilities. Because not even drugs that should be provided at the expense of the State Budget are widely available. How does the Ministry of Health plan to get control of our veterans to be able to treat our own?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u76	Thank you. Honorable national MPs, an extremely pressing issue that concerns and especially war veterans, as well as the medical community. I want to say that when it comes to financing, treating the population of Ukraine, of course, is a priority for veterans of the Great Homeland War. Today, a program is being developed by the Ministry of Health, a draft program for approval by the Cabinet of Ministers, to review the improvement of the financing of medicines and the nutrition of veterans of the Great Homeland War. If today's drug is 16 dollars, the food is 15 dollars, we want to predict drugs -- 35 dollars and 40 dollars for food. Unfortunately, this is an extremely pressing issue of today’s medical outpatient care. Today, this has been placed on local executives, and unfortunately, they do not provide enough money in local budgets. This program will be designed to indicate that there should be a priority to providing medicines.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u77	National MP Mordovian, faction of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u78	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I have a question about such a painful question as the preservation of a network of veteran pharmacies. Because it is known that the prices of medicines in commercial pharmacies are absolutely insurmountable for veterans. What does your ministry and the government as a whole suggest in order to expand, maintain, especially in small towns, district centers, and so forth?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u79	Thank you. I want to say that, indeed, this problem is also in accordance with the President's Order 2002 on the provision and improvement of health care for the population and pharmaceuticals, it was, in fact, the Order of the Cabinet of Ministers, where recommendations were made to increase the network of pharmacies, social pharmacies to provide medicine for veterans of the Great Homeland War. I want to say that today, compared to 2002, 2004 today, there are more than 350 social pharmacies in Ukraine that provide veterans of the Great Homeland War, not enough. Thus, in 2007 these programs are also planned to expand the departments, social units in the pharmacy network, to provide health - care supplies for veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u80	Thank you. National Deputy Radziewski, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u81	Alexei Radziewski, faction of the Party of Regions, Lvivščina Please tell me, how is the system organized to monitor the implementation of the Ministry's own decisions on ensuring the legal rights of veterans to medical care? First of all, I'm interested in the side of this problem, as we know, the Ministry is making fairly well-founded balanced decisions, but in places that, unfortunately, are not being implemented in many cases, but in many cases are simply being ignored. I know the opinion of veteran organizations, and they have a lot of claims that legislation, including health care, is not being implemented? What a system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u82	I fully agree because unfortunately, not all regions today have a responsibility to control security. the organization of medical care for veterans of the Great Homeland War. At the level of the Ministry of Health, an expanded college is scheduled for April 2007 to hear the issue of organizing medical care for veterans of the Great Homeland War, where the summary of work in previous years will also be held, as well as the shortcomings that are being addressed today. And we think that just when we're adopting the program in 2007, we're doing a software project. health care, we'll also increase control over the ratio of providing medical care to veterans in the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u83	Danilin gives the word to the National MP Zubka, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please. The MP's Microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u84	Yuri Zubko, Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan, Socialist faction. Valerius Igorovich, a question to you and to the Ministry of Labour. We have all the families, and we realize that the most painful thing is to lose someone in our family. And the most affected category in all wars is the families of the dead. Today, the families of the dead have the opportunity to heal sanatorium health only once every two years. I think that we and the Committee and the Committee on Budgets, I think we can sort this out so that the families of the dead can treat each year. And another question. I have recently returned from Dnipropetrovsk, and families of the dead forbid us to visit Semashko Sanatorium. Social protection management.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u85	Thank you. I think it's more of a question, of course, to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. As to the question of sanatorium. Of course, this is a problem. And there are many complaints from veterans of the Great Homeland War about their recovery. And what today, taking into account age and their status, is that what I think today is going through every two years of recovery, of course, is not enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u86	Thank you. National MP Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine”. Please, the microphone of the People's Deputy Kulczynski, “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u87	Valery Igorevich, I have a few questions for you. And here they come from a letter addressed to the head of the Poltava Regional Organization of War Disability and Armed Forces, John Yakovitch Lantuh. There he is. One person is given 153 bracelets a year. Medical care and medical supplies in rural areas want to be much better. These include 153 bracelets, and drugs are almost free of charge. That's one question. The second question. There is such a “Slava” sanatorium in Poltava, a beautiful sanatorium. Today, travel costs 1,000,300 dollars. The daily allowance is $13.75 (U.S.). That's the second question. And one more question. For some reason, he writes to me here, and many of the war invalids don't have medical aid outside the Poltava region. These are three questions that concern treatment. And the last question about the Cabinet of Ministers' decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u88	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u89	Thank you. Regarding the supply of drugs, I had already stopped. When it comes to the outpatient provision of pharmaceuticals for participants in the Great Home War in the regions, of course, it's in the local regional budgets and I repeat that this is not enough today to provide these drugs. This is due to the fact that today the veterans of the Great Motherland, with the fact that old age and polymorphism of their nosological diseases, need an increase in the number of pharmaceuticals. And this, of course, affects budget funding. But I think that the program being developed by the Ministry of Health will be reviewed and recommended to increase the cost of drug financing. It's about the Poltavian sanatorium. I think I'm going to take an extra look at that question and give you some information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u90	National Deputy Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions I have a quick question. It is based on those letters that come to our Committee on Social Policy and Work. Please name here from the rostrum, so people can hear what we're hearing right now, this broadcast, who in your ministry is responsible for the healing of the sanatorium? I'm talking about rehabilitation because it's very important to people. And what is the name of this department or unit? And your attitude towards what we see today is that the network of these sanatoriums is rapidly shrinking. The number of sanatoriums that could be available to veterans in the pay system is decreasing, because we see, suddenly, neither of these things have started to fail in the health sector, where, for example, a factory or factory could once buy these cheap travels and send its veteran there. Two such brief questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u92	Thank you. In terms of the structure of the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health has the Department of Medical Development and Medical Services. There's a department, a separate department with five people responsible for sanatorium treatment. As far as sanatoriums are concerned, the information I own has not been cut short for the day, and the beds have remained in the same amount as they were in 2005-2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u93	Thank you, Valery Grigorovitch. Dear colleagues, as we agreed, are now speaking on behalf of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, the head of the Committee of Cibenko, Peter Stepanovich. Ten minutes, as we agreed at the beginning. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Today’s day of government has for the first time focused attention not only on social issues but also on the moral and legal aspects of protecting war veterans. The committee found that, unfortunately, there are many examples in society where venerable veterans, the spiritual elite of the country, were thrown away in exorcism. Following the publication of the agenda for today’s session, nearly 500 appeals were made to the committee. We express our sincere appreciation to the authors for the suggestions we have made. We are also grateful to the editors of the newspaper “Golos Ukrainiana”, “Kyivsky minister”, “Veteran Ukrainiana”, “Communist” for publishing the relevant materials. The Minister's report and the answers to the questions revealed the government's activities in implementing legislation on the social, moral and legal protection of war veterans. And really, it's like there's not much. The legislative base is improving, though slowly, but the living minimum, pensions, and other social benefits are increasing. At many community locations, veterans in action feel the support and attention they receive. All of this is good, but there is another truth. The bottom line is that all these small allowances don't cover the rapid, gross increase in prices and tariffs on food, medicine, housing and utilities, and so on, that many laws are not fully implemented, are actually ignored by officials. A group of veterans of former employees at the Kharkiv Malishev factory wrote: “We retired until 2000, thought that our merits would affect the size of our pension and had an impact. When we are 50 years old, we receive up to 400 dollars, which is 33 dollars a day. For this money we need to eat, buy medicine, pay for the apartment, dress and sneak up, tell us how this can be done?" I believe that in order to remedy this injustice, the government must immediately submit to the Supreme Council proposals for necessary changes to legislative acts and regulations. If the established standards continue to work, the difference in the size of the pensions will increase further and the imbalance will once again become a pension gap. If we yearn for civilization, we need to change our view of people of an important age, as is done in many parts of the world. A number of countries take various measures at the national level on Veteran Day. On all the houses where veterans live, flags of the state hang, and on the Day of the Veterans, the leaders of the state sometimes forget to greet them. Most media outlets have also silenced this event. The problem of sanatorium treatment, the provision of medicine for veterans, remains acute. Only 150 or 200 dollars are paid for unused travel. Although the average cost of travel is higher. Veterans’ rights regarding free public transportation are being violated, and the provision of discounts in taxis is being granted. War invalids are not adequately provided with a special transport vehicle. There are more than 47,000 in turn to obtain cars. We need to abandon the practice when the State Budget Act annually imposes rules that restrict the social rights of veterans, contrary to the Constitution. There is a need to increase the subsistence minimum for those who have lost their jobs, to develop a realistic program to return them to veterans by saving them in the next 3-4 years. Our respected veterans have been humiliated not only materially but also morally in pain that over the past 15 years, the history of Ukraine, whose creators are war veterans and laborers, has been distorted by the heroism of the soldiers and the workers of the rear during the years of war. In school and university textbooks, academic publications, and works of art, the media spend all 70 years of the Soviet era serving as a period of totalitarianism and dictatorship, severe repression, gulags, famines, and so on. To make sure of this, it is enough to read the pre-new publications in the journal “Derkalo Week” and “Day” of the famous forger, deputy director of the Institute of History Stanislav Kulczynski. A group of veterans of the city of Kiev wrote in their address: “In the solemn assemblies dedicated to the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the President and the Minister of Defense urged the military to imitate and, in multiplying the traditions of Ukrainian Cossacks, Sicilian Sagittarius, members of the national contests and not a word of the traditions of war veterans who defeated Hitler’s Fascism, saved their homeland and the countries of Europe from enslavement. We took it as a personal insult!” For a new interpretation and in fact a rewriting of the new history, a National Memory Institute with special status, various commissions, councils, departments has been created. Strangely enough, the President's Secretariat wants to put this institution on the street of Lepsky, 16-A, by moving from there to the Organization of Veterans of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Cultural Fund. Kiev’s government was moving out of the city’s center. Before resigning, the government of Yuri Yehanurov decided to clarify the concept of the Book of Memory of Ukraine, changing the composition of the editorial college by bringing out the frontist veterans. [[in quotes]] The Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision to build a monument in Kiev to the great son of the Ukrainian people, three times the Hero of the Soviet Union of Kožedub Ivan Mikitovic, and the establishment of the State Museum "The Battle for the Kiev in 1943", the memorial complex "Warne Pole" allegedly because of the lack of funds. Moreover, businesses, along with the local authorities, are trying to capture 4 hectares of land that are part of a museum. At the same time, the President of Ukraine commissioned a monument in Kiev to a former citizen of the United States, a historian named James Maze, who offered to call famine the 1930s a famine and genocide. That's what the money's for. In an open letter to the President of Ukraine, a famous scientist, scholar Peter Toloczko writes: “No matter what opportunity there is for a respected Ukrainian domination, it always discusses the same topics: ‘Rehabilitation of UPA soldiers’; ‘Holdomor’; ‘Statute of Ukrainian Language’. The curses of the past are what accompany this.” With Peter’s position, I will note that not only 119 representatives of the scientific and artistic intelligence are in solidarity, sending their appeal to the guarantor of the Constitution but also to millions of Ukrainian citizens. The references also state the requirement, not to build a memorial complex in the Park of Fame of Kiev to the victims of the 1932-1933 famine, but to allocate a different place for this. In many populated places, many military cemeteries, graves, memorial complexes, and other buildings and buildings are in neglected condition. There are unique facts when political and criminal vandals destroy monuments of war and symbols of the Soviet era. The city authorities of Zitomiar last year decided to put out the eternal fire at the memorial to the Liberation Soldiers. A monument to the legendary spy, the hero of the Soviet Union of Mikola Kuznietsov, has been dismantled in the city of Equinem and has been replaced by a memorial sign for UN UPA soldiers. In Ivano-Frankishchi, the Partisan Glory Museum in Jaremcha is closed. The facts of cynicism and ecclesiasm, disrespect for folk memory, take place in most of the district centers of Western Ukraine, isolated areas of Kiev, Odessa. It's a street name company. Regrettably, law enforcement authorities pretend that they do not notice, do not take any action against criminals as provided by law. I would like to ask the members of the government: “How long will this last? ” At the end of the speech, I want to turn to all who listen to us, who will read the decision taken, let's do everything we can to ensure, indeed, the deserved rest of the veterans, to support them both in word and deed. Because the older generation, veterans of war, labor and military service, their affairs and merits are a living story, the foundation of our state and cannot be destroyed. American President Franklin Roosevelt said in 1945: “O Lord, if I could walk, I would reach those holy places: Leningrad, Stalingrad, Sevastopol, Moscow and Kiev, and I would kneel and kiss this holy land.” Here is the privilege of the courageous advocates of our Fatherless Deliverers of Europe from Hitler’s fascism. We live today because they won in 1945. Remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u95	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Dear colleagues! I'm sorry, there's an opportunity for us to speak, unforeseeable questions to the head of the committee. Dear colleagues! The Rules provide for a discussion of up to 30 minutes, but the Committee proposes, taking into account the importance of this issue, to hold a discussion so that representatives of all factions and committees can speak. And there was also a proposal not to announce a break, and in this mode we can close about 12.15 - 12.20 and summarize. Is there any objection? Dear colleagues! Request to sign up from factions for discussion and register with committees and national deputies. So let's continue the discussion, we have 45 minutes. I'd like to remind you that the committee has offered us a draft resolution on this issue, and I would also like to draw attention to this document, because we're going to need to decide whether we're going to approve today or at the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Communist faction, Matthew will be, right? Please, National Deputy Matthew of the Communist faction. Prepare Bondarchuk from the Socialist Party faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u96	Thank you. The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear veterans, dear colleagues! The concern for the warlords who saved the world and all mankind from fascism has given the state all their talent, skills, health, as we all know, has always been one of the main priorities of social policy in Soviet times. Unfortunately, the destructive efforts of the developers' democracy have distorted and deformed this policy over the past 15 years. It is now a source of bitterness, frustration, or outright resentment, and not only in the veteran environment. In particular, orange - colored politicians who have broken into power under the slogans “10 steps to meet people” with the assurance that the rich will share with the poor, and so on, with the special personal involvement of the guarantor of the Constitution and its team, the large and small attitudes at the center and in places. The idea that the older generation of becimto did not fight for those ideals, did not practice those values, did not create such a system of things that they did not build the only Ukrainian state. By the way, and today, as we know, recognized by all countries, the whole world of its present within. How close our family and loved ones are to this savage, I would say, ideologies have helped us to get out of life prematurely, and this one is still jonesing his heart with unhealed pain. Is it not possible to estimate otherwise than the cynicism of oranges, their abuse of the memory of the millions who have died fighting fascism, the decision of the district councils of Western regions to recognize UN-UPA troops as a warring party in the Great Motherland?Oh, my God! And the Lviv City Council, in its cynicism and positivity, has gone even further, giving the recent Fascism manuals known for 100 percent of the quarterly payments and housing and utility benefits. On the basis of what laws, we ask. From which sources? This is done on the basis of a kind of urban budget, but since this budget, like most Western budgets, is subsidized, it's actually done on the basis of East, Centre and South Ukraine taxpayers. This is a question, I think, first of all, to the Court of Auditors, the Attorney General's Office, and certainly to the Supreme Council. We will soon make an appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u97	From the faction of the Socialist Party, the national MP of the Red Cross, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u98	Thank you. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan, the Red Cross. Dear MPs, colleagues! Dear veterans! Honorable family members who are present and listen to us! I would like to begin my speech with all the words “Every society is as civilized and moral as it respects its veterans”. Unfortunately, today it is obvious that the present Ukrainian community is still far from this high definition. And this, despite the fact that the country has created an appropriate legal framework over the years, we've talked about this today, which is about two dozen very thorough laws on this issue. Yet the tragedy of the situation is that the rights of veterans are, but unfortunately, there are no conditions for their implementation. What is more, we are witnessing that all the previous governments are probably just the extreme that we are currently working on were doing everything to lower the annual budget laws to cut down the constitutional rights of veterans. First of all, it says that Ukraine's lack of capacity was a real strategy for protecting veterans from the socio-economic disadvantages that today are in the sphere of life. This is primarily medical care, housing, the establishment of fair municipal tariffs, the free allocation of road transport, the right to free travel, and much more today. And first of all, on the most painful issues, it's medicine. We've been through these questions today, but I want to say that the Cabinet of Ministers, since 16 January 2007, has set up an inter-agency working group on free medical care for veterans of all categories, see, by 31 December 2007 -- to prepare and submit proposals to the Cabinet for changes to the relevant legal acts. I think this job needs to be speeded up, improved. Indeed, our veterans should wait for what they need in this life. In the absence of time, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate all the veterans on the upcoming Day of Honoring the participants in hostilities in foreign lands.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u99	Allow Mr. Sergey to finish
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u100	But with Motherland's Day. I have enjoyed happiness, health, and many years for our respected veterans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u101	Thank you, Your Honor. Radziewsky, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, members of Parliament's hearings, Government Day in the Supreme Council! The government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, national MPs, the anti-crisis coalition is doing everything possible to further strengthen the protection of the interests of the Great Veterans, war veterans. In order for them to feel genuine concern for the social, legal, and moral protection of war veterans. And today is a powerful confirmation of this great and responsible work. I would like to point out that by comparison to 2003, from 1 January 2007, pension insurance had increased on average from 139 dollars to 477 dollars per month. Since January 1, 2007, the Yanukovic government has been provided with an increase, an increase in pensions for war veterans, which refers to 2.5 million war veterans. There is a great deal going on in order for this trend to continue. At the same time, I think it is necessary to pay attention to some serious problems regarding the implementation of these important legislative acts, the decisions of the Government, and their implementation on the ground. I have been in preparation for today’s meeting with the leaders of the veteran organizations to hear the government’s decisions on the ground from the first lips. And I come to the sad conclusion that the positive decisions made at the state level, unfortunately, at the level of local self-government in many cases are ignored and not implemented. For example, I can tell you that out of 25 veteran organizations, only 4 are provided with facilities. There is no solution to the problem of the fuelling of passenger transport for war veterans and many others. Thus, there is paragraph 25 of the Basic Law, which provides that control over the implementation of this law is placed on the Attorney General and his subordinates. In addition to the draft decree of today's Supreme Council meeting, the Attorney-General's Office will ensure a thorough review of the implementation of the current legislation of Ukraine in places relating to legal, social and social issues by 1 June.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u103	Thank you. From the faction of "Our Ukraine" the People's Deputy Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u104	Today, government officials have said many fine words about how they care about war veterans. Regrettably, the government can offer the veterans the words themselves, although it could have done many real things for them within seven months. If, after the election of President Yushchenka for several months, he has provided for an increase in minimum pensions, a substantial increase in single payments to veterans before Victory Day and the provision of such payments to all veterans, now the picture is the opposite: pensions are almost frozen, but 2-3 times the rate for residential services has risen, prices for essential medicines and food products are rising, the network of pharmacies for veterans is shrinking. If 388 million dollars were spent on annual payments to veterans last year, only 380 is available this year. Last year, 84 million dollars were left behind for the purchase of cars for disabled people. And this is despite the fact that the State budget is much higher this year. So the government has just other priorities that neither social policy in general nor the problems of veterans in particular. How else can it be explained that in seven months, this government has passed as many as one bill concerning veterans, and that one was initiated, not by regionals, socialists, or communists, but by the minister of defense, Gristenk, who was appointed president. Does anyone prevent the government from making pre-election promises and from taking legislative initiatives aimed at improving the lives of war veterans? Instead of solving the real problems of the living, the coalition uses veterans as an excuse for political speculation. For example, the draft government decrees suggest that veterans be urged to carry the memorial of the victims of famine away from the tomb of the Unknown Soldier in Slava Park. The veterans who listen to us today may be surprised to learn that the authorities are also trying to counter those who have died in war and who have been killed by hunger. We're the same people. And so far, this power has not stopped the biological war with its own people, for it recognizes as veterans the participants of virtually all wars except the war of the Ukrainian people for independence. Today, some 10,000 UPA veterans are still alive. A bill by the government of Yehanurov to grant these heroes proper status was called off by the government of Yanukovich. It is a shameful situation when, because of the ideological myths of the past, the country’s parliament does not recognize fighters for the country’s independence. Instead, it has been done by eight district councils, including the last months of Zacarpatska and Hmelnicka, and this process is ongoing. The “Our Ukraine” faction calls for government and coalition instead of contrasting veterans to do real work: to provide all veterans with decent pensions, health care, social services, and, above all, the attention and respect of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u105	National Deputy Lazko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u106	The Timoshenko bloc draws the government's attention to the next problem of war invalids. Part four of article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans and the Guarantee of Social Protection provided that pensions for war invalids should be increased in size: the first group with disabilities 400 per cent, the second group with disabilities 350 per cent, and the third group with disabilities 200 per cent of the minimum age pension. And in 05.10.2005, changes were made to article 13 of the Act, which provides for pensions for war invalids to increase in size: first-group disabled, 50 per cent, second-group disabled, 40 per cent, third-group disabled, 30 per cent of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs. With the requirements of article 28 of the Ukrainian Act on "On compulsory government pension insurance", the minimum age pension is set to the minimum living minimum for persons who have lost their employment defined by law. According to article 62 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2007 Act, living minimum per person for persons who have lost their jobs from January 1st is 380. As we can see, according to the former rules of article 13 of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, the pension for the disabled of the first group would amount to 1 thousand 520 dollars. According to the law in force, the increase in the number of persons with disabilities in the first group is 190. Thus, the pension of the first - group war invalids was reduced by 8 times. Similarly to those with disabilities in the second and third groups. Thus, war invalids were deprived of the possibility of obtaining adequate pension insurance. To remedy this situation, the Yulia Timoshenko Block proposes to the government by amending article 13 of the "On the Status of War Veterans" Act, by restoring the previously established methodology for calculating pensions as a percentage of the percentage for each disability group. I also wanted to say about the draft decision that is being proposed for our consideration. I also support the need to exclude from the draft decision the paragraph “s” that is proposed to be translated, to transfer from Slava Park the memorial complex to the victims of Holodomor, and also in the paragraph “d” in paragraph 7 of the draft decision the politicized phrases of what to do in the true light of history, to refrain from the publications that falsify, falsely interpret one or another period of history. Veterans, Ukrainian war veterans, disabled people, regardless of their political views, need the protection of the state. So let us refrain from politicizing this issue in the interests of any political force. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u107	Thank you. The Polish National Deputy conveys the word to Bondarchuku, a faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, distinguished guests, TV sets, and radio audiences! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The consideration of this question is archival and at the same time indicative. It would be good for the government to start a new policy with regard to war veterans after today’s hearing. Such a policy that would indicate that the state is finally talking about an eternal debt to frontalists, guerrillas, and subversives, the workers of the rear, who are the moral pillars of our society to move on to specific things. Such a policy that would promote community formation, indeed, respect for the generation of winners. I want to hope so. No matter how we, the children, and the grandchildren of those who have won a great victory, let us face each other after the winners have entered eternity. To whom, then, will we pay our debts, and when? I'm not going to stop at the socio-economic issue, because both in the report and in the speeches and in the questions, and so on, this subject is very detailed. I'd like to stop at other questions. It has taken me more than a year, really, to work specifically and directly with war veterans, with veteran organizations. And I know very well that for most of them, at least for those who are not yet desperate with their sometimes beggarly existence, it's not just about solving material problems. Veterans respond sharply to the unfair assessment they have made, to the distortion of the history of facts in the light of the war period. To the fact that often, often, those who have not smelled the powder have come to conclusions and have people think about the causes of the war, the causes of the war, the sources of victory, the contribution of our people to its achievement, that all of this is usually activated on the eve of Victory Day. Therefore, in the view of the authorities at all levels, there should be an inescapable implementation not only of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection, but also of the Law on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Homeland War. We need to systematically address issues such as the celebration of Victory Day using the symbolism of the Great Homeland War period, the preservation of museums. Because when you listen to reports that in one of the villages in the Kyiv region, they intend to take some of the territories and create an ethnographic museum that is also needed, it only causes anger and resentment. The correct treatment of the driving forces, the sources of our victory, the contribution of the Soviet people, including the people of Ukraine as part of it during that period, to the breakdown of fascism. Convinced that we need to go back to making school textbooks from history. And in our determination to mark this point, because we have to raise our children in the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u109	National Deputy Udovenko, faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u110	Dear Chief! Dear colleagues! I was moved by a letter from a citizen from Zaporozhye of Visnik. She's a child of war, but she's violated the security problems, the financial security benefits given to war veterans, the veterans of World War II. In particular, the letter refers to the brutal treatment of pensioners, whether they are war veterans or labor veterans or just older people. The brutal treatment of them, especially the carriers, these taxis, the people in front of people, they're closing doors, they're talking to them in a hammish, word, those who use public transportation from us, they know about all these problems. But I decided to move this letter, to the Ministry of Transport and Communications, and I had to give it to the Ministry, and I got a pretty detailed answer with thought, with suggestions that this is not just Zaporozhye's problem, it's a problem all over Ukraine. The Ministry reports that there are 23 million citizens in Ukraine who today have the right to pay in urban transport. Think about that figure, 23 million citizens. And you and I have made laws, regulations that are not financially secured, and the state is not in a position to secure the amount that we are doing because of our economic situation? Today, we need to determine whether these three thousand fighters are fully equipped with the benefits we have undertaken to provide them. I think today's main task for us, the government, should be to study how we provide benefits. And to the end. I think it's a provocative paragraph in the draft decree to move the site of the monument to the victims of the famine elsewhere. The Ukrainian people survived two huge catastrophes in one generation: World War II, the 1932-33 famine, and we entered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u111	Thank you. National Deputy Stoyan, Party of Regions. Get ready for Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u112	Honorable colleagues, respected representatives of veteran organizations, respected veterans who are convinced to listen and watch us today. I want to draw your attention to one fact that already retired children born in 1945, in the first year of the great victory, the children of war veterans are also veterans but veterans of the work. And what we're saying today is that there are phone lines for veterans, that there's no way to go properly in transport, because they're being thrown out of this transport, we're saying today that our war veterans can't buy drugs in pharmacies. And the question I have is, what are the children of these veterans, who are we the grandchildren of such veterans, that we have not decided for them in 62 years from the day of victory? When this “talk room” ends, who will be responsible for the death of war veterans and there is nothing we can do for them, at least moral, spiritual support to support their health. So what I'd like to say is that today is a very important conversation, and we have to point out the positive moment that the government of Yanukovic in 2003-2004, that's what the Minister of Labour was talking about when the first minimum pension went to the minimum of living, which was for all veterans, first of all, the war. I would also like to remind you that it is this year that the government of Yanukovich has begun to finance the law that the Socialists have passed in due course - the Law on the Support of the Children of War. I also want to tell you that, literally from February 7, the coalition government of Yanukovic restored the State Committee on Veterans, which in April 2005 the President of Ukraine repealed by decree. This organization is needed, this committee needs to be able to solve these issues in a comprehensive manner. I'll also remind you that our colleague Jaroslav Suhi, a colleague in our faction of the Party of the Regions, has passed a law that removes taxes on the added value of a car. And this will allow us to increase the production of cars by 30 percent by our veterans. It's not a bad thing, but it's not enough. So the faction of the Party of the Regions is now initiating and urging the government to create a State Program for the Social Protection of Veterans. We're ready to get involved in the development of this program. This program should involve questions such as free pharmacies, liquor stores. I think we should finally create the All-U.S. Veterans Fund, if we can't go with you, dear fellows, one day a month to pay our wages to this fund. Can't government officials put in this fund, unless those who said that the rich would help the poor couldn't give their business, even if they had a small share of the funds to fill this fund, and from that fund, they'd give help to the drugs, to the houses, to a lot of other things. Let's get serious with our veterans, let's get to the rostrum by May 9th and make this program. That'll be our answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u113	Thank you. Mankowski, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u114	Gregory Mankowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Montenegro Dear National Deputies! Dear veterans! The concern for war veterans is constantly in the midst of issues with which the government gives considerable attention. War veterans are usually elderly and still disabled. They are much more at risk, they are more likely to get sick, they are often lonely, and they are deprived of self - care. Perhaps almost everyone will agree with me that the most humane, since man remains in normal domestic conditions, is the form of social care for veterans directly at their place of residence. And these services are currently provided by the district social services centers of the pensioners and the lonely incapacitated citizens of the Minpraci system. The network has 743 facilities that serve nearly 1 million people, including half a million war veterans. War veterans are most often cared for by the welfare department at home. The employees of these departments are true helpers of the lonely. They will bring food, medicine, help, if necessary, prepare food, or even feed, wash the floor, read the newspaper, or write a letter, and simply communicate. In the department of socio-economic rehabilitation of war veterans, pensioners receive services such as washing and cleaning clothes and undergarments, shoe repairs, radio equipment, glasses, etc. If necessary, single war veterans are provided with free hot food, natural food, clothing, shoes, fuel, and other household items. At the same time, all those who directly care for war veterans, namely, social workers, the workers of the district centers, have little social protection today because they have low wages. The government should therefore consider correcting this situation as soon as possible. The social spectrum provided through the territorial centres is expanding all the time. Thus, in some areas, specialized social services at home have been established for people with mental illness. At present, the number of such individuals is increasing. Social services for such people are therefore essential. At present, the generally recognized world trend in the service of older people is to leave a person in his or her normal environment as long as possible, at home with his or her loved ones, surrounding objects in his or her homeland. So the government still needs to be supported, developed, and improved.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u115	Thank you. The National Deputy Kuzmenko gives the floor to the People’s Deputy Zubka, a faction of the Socialist Party. Get ready for Dryma.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u116	Dear TV setters, venerable war veterans, venerable families of the dead! Let me draw attention to just two issues that concern the subject under discussion today: the social protection of families of dead military personnel, as well as the housing of war veterans. An important problem that seems to have been addressed by valid legislation is the social protection of families of victims and military personnel who died during military service. Families of the dead are the most affected part of society. At the same time, they are provided with the lowest level of benefits and compensation. They need every year sanatorium treatment, and they're only available once every two years. Parents and widows who have lost breadwinners need a hundred percent exemption from housing and utilities, not 50, as is now envisaged. This is particularly relevant in the context of a significant increase in housing and utility tariffs. For the first time before the Supreme Council, draft laws on the establishment of a second pension are being passed on to families of the deceased. The Supreme Council has made a positive decision on this issue, but unfortunately it has come up with a formal indication of the impossibility of receiving two pensions by one person – the President's veto. Therefore, there is a proposal instead of a second pension to grant pensions to families of the dead. Such benefits to parents, widows of the deceased should be no less than the size of the pension after the loss of a caregiver. First of all, parents and widows of the dead have not been compensated for the loss of their loved ones. Incomprehensible is the increase in pensions for the parents and widows of the dead, which is stipulated by the Ukrainian law on pensions for special merit. It's 70-90 percent, not 100 percent of the increase anticipated for the dead. The realization of the right of veterans to housing is an acute social problem. Tens of thousands of veterans of Zaporozhye, Dnipropetrovska, Lviv, Harkov stand in line for housing improvements. The life expectancy is higher than the life expectancy of the budget. A situation that is said in chess is not permanent. The main reason for this is the lack of funds. Regrettably, though, not all the housing financing that is provided by valid legislation is being used. This is a law on the status of veterans, which provides for a loan for the construction, reconstruction, and renovation of residential buildings, with the repayment of them for 10 years, starting 5 years after the completion of construction. In fact, it is not possible to obtain these loans. Since 95 C.E., this benefit has not worked.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u117	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, please. Prepare Anthemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u118	Dear colleagues! Dear government day! This is not the first time I have participated in such hearings and government reports, not the first time I have worked on the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. I personally feel that often the authorities just want to get rid of the problems of war veterans, work, and therefore I did not ask the minister by accident. We have about 40 changes and additions to this basic law on the social status of veterans, because that's certainly how instead of a complex and systematic approach we're trying to somehow tackle this horn hole. As we prepared for Government Day, we asked our scientists to conduct sociological research, which is of primary concern to veterans today. And they saw, no, it's not a consumer mood, it's not an attempt to take any of the benefits or anything. People today are most concerned: First of all, the most dissatisfied veterans of today, 56 percent of those polled say they lack stability in the state and society. These people, who have given us the peaceful heavens above our heads, are now concerned that the situation in the country is unstable. So from this rostrum on their behalf, I want to tell our fans who are not in this room right now, fortunately, to rock a state boat that has always been and will be in the minority, what is the purpose of future elections: to make the lives of the people better? But there will be no heavenly manna after the election, and there will never be after the election. It will be a normal life when, as it should be in a democratic society, everyone's well-being will depend on him alone, not on another messiah, the savior of the people. Our veterans are concerned about the lack of protection against lowering the standard of living, the uncertainty about improving the situation, and especially about the lack of health care and the lack of needed medical care. And in this case, I want to address the Ukrainian national deputies. Here, in this room, and the President made his remarks, we passed a bill banning the sale of professional property. Listen, health workers, where thousands of our veterans had the opportunity to improve their health free of charge, in the sanatoriums of Warzel, Crimea, and so forth, is being sold out today. So I want to remind you that only “Victory” and “Ukraine” — the Warzel sanatorium — could heal thousands of our veterans. And we can see that these doctors are going somewhere else. These are the same members of the former trade union! Instead of curing them on a free basis, property is distributed. I think that the decision prepared by the committee is unnecessary today, it needs to be redrafted, because there is a point. And one more thing: only a comprehensive approach and a system of work in all areas of the national economy will enable us, the people of the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u119	Thank you. National MP Antemuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Prepare Bogchuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u120	Anatoly Antemuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Winnitzkin. Dear Chairman, government officials, distinguished colleagues! In a week or so, you and I are going to celebrate Motherland's Day. It would seem that as early as the 16th year of independence, the issue of social and legal protection of our veterans, the improvement of their lives, medical care should be a narrow place in the work of power in general, and the local authorities, therefore. But the practice of our being, including on Winnitzkin, unfortunately leaves us with a desire for a better one. Yet, social and legal issues remain the main problems that people ask for the support of the authorities. And in many ways they don't get solved at the level of local authority. Although we do seem to have enough laws on the social protection of veterans, their legal and moral support, social practice confirms that in real life everything is not so simple. As an example of our public reception in Winnice, during my personal admissions, I did not make sure that many officials ignored the requirements of the Law and my official duties. Often, such actions remain unpunished. During my term of office alone, 270 veterans of the Great Homeland War and work, participants in fighting complaints of violations of their rights, requests to improve housing conditions, provide material assistance, or provide medicines. On dozens of occasions, I have made parliamentary appeals to various institutions asking them to solve the urgent problems of deserved people. The recent appeal to the head of the district council known at Winnitzkin as the hero of the Soviet Union of Mikli Siszczykov, who did not find understanding in many of the city’s government offices and the area, is a force for negligence and superiority. The fact is that the Great National War veterans’ district organization may lose its place of residence because of the complexity of relations with the head of the Teachers’ Postgraduate Training Institute, where this veteran organization originally rented a room. Veterans are turned off by light and heat, and they are morally abused. General Vladimir Glazov also spoke about this problem during the last city council session. But instead of emergency assistance, the city authorities set up another task force to study the subject. Veterans are also concerned that on the street of the Kyiv District Center, where 26 Soviet soldiers were buried, the first to break into Winnic during her liberation, the memorial turns into, I'm sorry, a very different place, where the AZS appeared. Similar facts could still be listed, but our task is to force not only officials in Winnitz to comply strictly with legislation and to remember their moral obligation. People look at them and draw conclusions about the entire system of Ukrainian authority. Unfortunately, so far, the Party of Regions has no effective influence on these processes and is losing face in the region because of the idleness of the winners of the local elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u121	Thank you. National Deputy Bogchuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Get ready for Mutza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u122	Dear veterans of war, of labor, of action, of war children! Today is your day in Parliament. After hearing the government report, I never received an answer to those questions, hundreds of thousands of questions that the veterans of Ternopolska are asking me. I have little faith today that the implementation of legislation on the social, legal, and moral protection of veterans will improve after today’s Government Day. The veterans of the Ternopil region ask the same questions that the National Court of Auditors defines year after year in its reports. Is it not a nonsensus for government administration, namely, the lack of a single payment policy, the lack of a single distribution and payment policy, the inefficient use of the sanatorium bed fund, hospitals, the lack of proper control by the main cost manager, the unreasonable cost-planning methodology and the control of their use, the inefficient organization of the provision of wheelchairs by cars. I want to ask the government today what changes are needed to make sure that the veterans of my Ternopolska have an answer to their questions, namely, when do veterans, disabled people, children of war in rural areas have gas at the expense of government, who will help the veteran process his city, repair his apartment? How long will the most respected people live in broken houses without light and warmth, in basements and in half? Why does the system of veterinary pharmacies and shops not work? Who will help the veteran to obtain medicine, food? These and many other questions today ask me during personal meetings. Who will help establish individual heating for veterans in the Lanovits region of Ternopil? The government has developed a program called the Red House. I turned off the boilers, promised to set up an individual tan. Everything except veterans of war and work has been set up. How long will this go on? Of course, eight, ten, fifteen thousand today cannot be found for a veteran. I have today, I'd like to go to the government. How long are the supermen in the heads of administration going to make their own pyar for the state funds we're looking for in order to give a veteran the right to get a car? It's time to stop this. It's better to give this money instead of a show on extra cars and benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u123	Thank you. Mutz, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u124	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Honorable national MPs, distinguished representatives, respected veterans. More than 3 million veterans now live in Ukraine. Of these, 285,000 are war invalids, 293,000 are war participants, more than 2 million 700,000 are war participants, 469,000 are war veterans, and 469,000 are war veterans guaranteed social protection. This is the kind of person you want to talk about. Joint action by central and local executive authorities should contribute to improving the social protection of war veterans. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and on Local Government Administrations. Local authorities and local executives have the right to impose additional benefits and guarantees for war veterans, to adopt local social protection programs for this category of citizens. They have the right, but do they always exercise the right? Here's another painful question. Certain categories of persons under the Act on the Status of War Veterans, guarantees their social protection, benefit from the free repair of dwellings, apartments. The above law provides for war invalids, those who extend the scope of this law, for the extra-priced maintenance of their own homes, and for those who have special merit before their Father, for the free maintenance of their homes, and for apartments. According to the Ukrainian Budget Code, the cost of aid to veterans of war comes from the regional budgets and budgets of cities of regional importance under the State Budget subsidy to local budgets. The procedure for carrying out free-of-charge capital repairs to designated categories of persons in accordance with the legislation regulates the arrangements for the free repair of residences, apartments of war invalids, persons with special merit before the Fatherland, members of the families of and compared to the deceased military personnel, approved by the Order of Derjkomongosp of August 5, 1994 and registered in the Ministry of Ukraine. As of 1 January 2008, the Ukrainian Act “On the Amendment to Article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, Guaranteeing Their Social Protection” will take effect, which will grant the rights of persons with disabilities of war to free-of-charge capital repairs of their homes and apartments. But is there time for those who have endured a great war on their shoulders to wait for what seems to belong to them according to the law? Unfortunately, today’s defenders need protection, so let’s not say beautiful words, but do everything possible and impossible to make the rule of law and social justice the highest values in our country. Dear veterans.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the time for discussion is over. We need to consult. There have been many suggestions, and I think they're right and they're controversial. And I think we should still work on the determination to have everything our colleagues have to say reflected in this document. And then on Tuesday, when we get together for the session, we'd generally approve of it, and the government would take it to work. Peter Stepanovich, no objection? Okay. So I'd like to ask the committee head to work with the deputies. As they say, we will sum up today’s meeting. I invite you to the closing statement of Minister Dmitry Volodymyrovich, Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u126	Thank you. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies, respected veterans, present! Today, we believe that there has been a very important constructive conversation, which has also enriched national MPs, government representatives, central executive authorities with proposals for further action. During today's Government Day, you and I have taken stock of what has been done by central and local executives and local governments to implement legislation on the social, moral and legal protection of war veterans. And I think the draft rulings have found common basic issues for solving them, direct for further work. I would like to emphasize that further work on the social protection of war veterans will take into account the changes that are taking place in the current legislation and those that we will work together in accordance with the draft decree, and we will take into account the results of this discussion today on Government Day in the Supreme Council. I am convinced that the most important documents that provide social and legal protection for war veterans are the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantees of Their Social Protection, the “Concerning the Victory in the Great National War”, the “On the Compulsory State Pension Insurance”, the “On the Pension Insurance of Military Servants and the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs Institutions” and the “On Social Services” Act. And they need to work together, clarify the texts and many other changes that we're going to make together. The Cabinet of Ministers has already developed a number of projects, legal and regulatory acts that will significantly improve the vitality of war veterans and increase their level of social protection. We will have to involve representatives of public organizations, war veterans before these legal acts are drafted. As you and I know, there are many other problems that can be solved only by working together. I want to assure you that all the wishes that have been made in this room will be carefully studied, generalized, and based on government decisions. It's a decision about the project. There are 4 small editorial changes, I would like to pay attention to them, this is page 4, paragraph 3, unit "a" to develop a state-wide, integrated program to improve the livelihood of war veterans. I propose instead of 2007-2011 to make 7-12 years so that it will not be tied to Parliament's office and remain for implementation, and the next Parliament will also allow it to make the program more time-consuming. To paragraph “b”, it requires that, within a three-month period, proposals be made for necessary changes to the law and relevant government decisions. It is suggested that appropriate government decisions be withdrawn. We're going to do it anyway, and we're going to submit it to the Supreme Council, and it's going to conflict with both the Constitution and the Cabinet of Ministers Act. The third is a very small technical change to point "c", the last sentence: to develop a programme for the return to 2010 of undervalued savings. The point is, there is a decision by the Constitutional Court that prohibits the deletion of any category. So this program is designed and implemented, and the previous government and today's government, and it's foreseen in the state budget, and it also needs to be removed, and it runs counter to this very issue of the Constitutional Court. That is to say, “design the program” and remove the words after the text. And the last. Paragraph 6 of the Decree, page 5. It says: “In order to ensure that the future of generations, the transfer of better traditions, the self - realization of veterans are linked, to recommend to the leaders of the central and local authorities of large enterprises and organizations of all forms of property to create the original veteran organizations. This also contradicts the creation of primary organizations in enterprises of non-state ownership and, by the way, state ownership as well. And it's going to look, frankly, fairly naive and it's not going to be implemented. It is therefore proposed to leave this item, recommend to the leaders of the central and local authorities and continue to change: “Keep creation in the teams of the original veteran organizations”. It's a normal norm, and I would ask these four requests and amendments to the decision to take into account. In general, I would like to thank the Chairman, the people's deputies, especially the committee, the veterans of war for their active participation in the preparation of proposals and changes to legislative acts. Thank you all for participating.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-13-m0.u127	Thank you, Dmitri Volodymyrovich. As we agreed, the committee will still work, offer us a final version, and we will make the right decision. Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the people's deputies that we are working here in parallel: we have invited the heads of the heads of the department of labour and social policy, they are present. And I would like to draw the attention of these responsible people to the fact that there have been tremendous criticisms in the session room about the activities of local authorities, particularly in the part of those projects that both the government and the Supreme Council are implementing. And I think it would be correct, as a result of our discussion, to hold appropriate meetings or meetings in district administrations, so that this work does not remain at the level of government and parliament, and the local authorities are actively involved in this work. And in all the positions that this has been about, especially in the part of supporting veterans at a difficult time today in connection with the rise in housing and utility tariffs, we have in some regions an approach where veterans' problems are properly taken into account by the local authorities, without waiting for decisions by central authorities so that perhaps this experience can be used throughout Ukraine. Other warnings expressed by MPs regarding the provision of transportation, medical care, and the request that these wishes be properly evaluated and strengthened by actions. On the other hand, I would like to point out that the day after tomorrow we celebrate the withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan and I would ask the authorities of local self-government not only, but I looked at the arrangements we have foreseen as always, not just to take part in the festivities, but not to forget about mothers and parents, in front of all those boys who didn't come back from Afghanistan and support not only my Afghan associates, but in front of all these people's families and, therefore, we would, because we're drinking the categories of participants in the fighting, the participants in the war, we have a larger category, than just participants in the Second World War. I think they'll get that kind of attention from local self-government. And I am absolutely convinced that the discussion today was very constructive and important. The only thing I hope is that we will not forget about veterans, and in our discussions about veterans, there will be less politics, and more concern for each particular veteran. Thank you, Your Honor. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is closed. I would like to remind you that the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council will begin at 10 a.m. on February 20, 2007.
