ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies and guests of the Supreme Council! Please take your seats, our colleagues are a little late. Please make an announcement to return the representatives of the "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" bloc from the towers, and invite them to the hall. Dear colleagues! As a result of successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 30, 2007, the Central Election Commission registered 450 Ukrainian national deputies. After taking an oath, they took office as Ukrainian national deputy and registered for the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this way the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Call is complete and can proceed to the realization of its constitutional powers. The Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Call is putting an end to its mandate. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I invite the oldest elected national deputy of Ukraine, Hero of Ukraine Gerasimov John Alexanderovich, to the rostrum and to open the first plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. Please, Ivan Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u2	The first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, elected on September 30, 2007, declared open.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u3	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues! All of us were struck by the tragedy that took place on the West Mine on November 18 of this year. We grieve deeply for the loss of miners, express our compassion for their families and loved ones, and wish to heal the victims as quickly as possible. Please honor the memory of the dead miners for a moment of silence. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, we continue our work. In line with the good tradition of the Supreme Council, I propose to welcome today the birthday of the national deputy, Shagu Eugen Petrovich, and we wish him success in his affairs. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 15 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, it is determined that the chairman of the Preparatory Deputy Group will lead to the formation of the Temporary Presidium of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 18 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the Temporary Presidium of the First Session consists of five national deputies. It includes the head of the Preparatory Group and one representative from each of the four political parties or constituencies, as a result of the election of the national deputies who held the largest number of parliamentary mandates. The parties and the blocs identified their representatives as part of the Temporary Presidium of the session, as informed by the Preparatory MP group. On the basis of these suggestions, the Preparatory Group will make a corresponding draft decision on the composition of the Temporary Presidium of the first session that you have in your hands. In this regard, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sas Sergey Volodymyrovich, has a word from the Preparatory Group. Please. Thank you. While Sergei Volodymyrovich is on his way, let's do the registration in the hall. Please turn on the board. [[12:09:29]] Registered in the 430 National Deputies Hall. Please, Sergey Volodymyrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u4	Thank you, Raisa Vasilovna. National Deputy Sas, Timoshenko Street. Dear Raiso Vasilovno, dear colleagues. A draft Supreme Council regulation, registration number 1001, which proposes a one-time deviation from the procedure set out in article 18 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, will include representatives of all political parties elected to parliament as part of the interim presidency of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Personally: Richter Raisa Vasilovna - head of the Preparatory MP Group from the Party of the Regions of Ukraine; Turkinov Alexander Valentinović - from the election bloc of the political parties “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. The cook Roman Mihajlovich is from the constituency of political parties, the “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” block. Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich is from the Communist Party of Ukraine. Sharov Igor Fedorovich is from the political bloc of Vladimir Litvina. [[Applause]] Thank you for your attention, please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u5	Is there no objection? None. If not, please put the draft order to the vote. People's deputies, please vote. [[12:11:32]] For 419 Decision taken. I invite members of the Temporary Presidium to take up their jobs and take up their duties. Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. The members of the Presidium entrusted me with the first meeting of the first session. The list of issues that we should consider for the period before the formation of the Supreme Council Committees is set out in Article 16 of the Supreme Council Rules. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. The statement is given to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u6	In accordance with article 115 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I declare the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine to be appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u7	Dear colleagues! Dear colleagues, clear emotions, the good work of the government in helping our nation to be accepted into the world by democratic, economic development. And we want to thank the government for its fruitful work. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I am aware that according to an article of the 100th Constitution of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers, which was appointed to the newly elected Supreme Council of Ukraine, continues to exercise its authority before the new Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine begins its work. Let's move on to the next question of order of the day. In order to provide organizational questions related to voting, we need to select a Counting Commission. For suggestions from the Preparatory Deputies Group, Sasa Sergio Volodymyrovich is given to the National Deputy of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u8	National MP Sas, faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Dear Raisa Vasilovna, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with the provisions of article 17 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules for the organization of the votes of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the determination of their results, the Counting Commission is elected. The Counting Commission is elected by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Ukrainian People’s Deputies, taking into account the principle of proportional representation of the deputy faction. For your consideration, the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Sixth Call, registration number one thousand two, taking into account the proportional representation of the deputy factions in the 20 national deputies of Ukraine, is proposed by the Preparatory Group. Including: eight Ukrainian National Deputies from the Party of the Regions' MPs, seven National Deputies from the MPs of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, three National Deputies from the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense”, one Ukrainian National Deputy – from the deputy faction “Block of Volodymira Lithuania”. Dear colleagues, a personal warehouse at the offer of a three - percent political party. People. One of the people. I'm sorry. One Ukrainian national deputy is from the Communist Party of Ukraine. The personal composition of the candidates of the Counting Commission is given to you and is in the draft regulations that are handed down to you. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u9	Is there a question for Sergei Volodymyrovich? None. People’s deputies became familiar with the composition. If there is no objection, I will put to the vote the entire draft decision on the election of the Counting Commission. Please turn on the "Council" system, please vote. [[12:17:43]] For the 433 people's deputies. Decision taken. Let us now consider how the work of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be discussed. A word from the Preparatory Group is given to the Ukrainian national deputy Herman Hanni Mikolayivni. Please, Anna Mikolayevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u10	Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, allow me to invite you to your consideration of the draft bill prepared by the Preparatory Working Group of the Law of the Supreme Council of Ukraine entitled “On Enlightenment to Parliament’s Sixth Call”. This bill, this draft decree generally foresees, if you speak briefly, who, where, how and how it will tell about what is going on in our Parliament. We have taken into account in this draft regulations the cases that took place in a Parliamentary meeting last time when there were cases where there were exclusions in many regions of Ukraine of a Parliamentary Broadcasting session while we were here addressing the most important issues of the country's viability. In this draft, all these points are included. And I have hope and confidence that there will be an objective, comprehensive, and true enlightenment of our work in the Supreme Council of the Sixth Call. Please support the draft decision that is given to all of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u11	Is there a question for Hanna Mikolayevna? Yes. Please sign in. One of the factions I propose to sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u12	Oh, yes, from every political power. Please record. Please, Zarubinsky Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u13	Thank you. Madam Reporter, in the third article of paragraph 2, the second said that broadcasts were provided weekly on a proportional basis by members of the MPs. The sixth article is also in proportion to their size. I know it's cliché, it's a stereotype that's passed. But I would like to explain what it's up to, whether it's the number of deputies or the content of the job or the intensity initiative. That's the first question. And the second. Here in the third article, the first paragraph says “balanced information”. There is no such legal term as “balanced”. Clearly, lighting should be objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u14	Thank you for asking. We have deliberately introduced the term “balanced” because there are some parliamentary factions that, in principle, would not have been able to express their positions that should have political power in a democratic state. The principle of balance allows us to listen to the position and opinion of every political force, each faction in accordance with what is being considered, and therefore we have deliberately added this not legal but purely journalistic term of “balanced information supply”. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u15	We've got school next. Please, the word of the school.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u16	Thank you. I have this question for the reporter. Article 4 states that the administration of the National Company to Ukraine, a., and it says that the formation of contracts with nonstate radio organizations on the basis of the Supreme Council’s sixth call, the activities of the national deputies, is a matter of competition. I mean, as far as I can tell, it's going to be the National Radio Company. Where will the Supreme Council be represented? I mean, how is there going to be a contest about who's going to be reporting from non-state media? Will it be the prerogative of the National Radio Company alone, or in what way will the Supreme Council be involved, if any, in what way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u17	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. If you have carefully read the draft decree, it states that the responsibility for its implementation lies first with the preparatory parliamentary group and then with the Committee on Freedom of Word, which will be formed. So not the National Broadcasting Company, but the Freedom of Word and Information Committee will control, actually, these competitions that we're going to conclude that not only in state media, but also in commercials, our work here is as wide and objective as possible. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u18	Belarus, please, Oleg Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u19	Thank you. I have to ask. From our political power came a colleague of the school. Are you giving me your word? I'll use it. I wonder, then, where are the guarantees that the broadcast of the plenary sessions of the Supreme Council, as well as what you have recorded in a non-legal language, and that the Supreme Council cannot speak in a non-legal language that you have recorded in a well-balanced, well-edited or well-directed language? Is it censoring or trying to influence the character, style, content of a national MP's speech as a sovereign, as an untouchable person? I'm asking you to explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u20	Thank you for asking, my dear colleague. And I would like to remind you that the term "balanced" in journalistic practice means equal access to the media to any MP, indicating the same time he uses, the places of the newspaper, the radio broadcast, and so on. For this and only for this purpose, and not for the purpose of any censorship, we have written down this term, because it is very important for us that both the opposition and the future power coalition have equal opportunities to bring their positions, their views and their beliefs to society. As to whether these mechanisms and this possibility of objective lighting will be disrupted? At the meeting of the preparatory parliamentary group, we invited the heads and directors of the radio and the National Broadcasting Company and all the other directors of the responsible ones.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u21	Please turn on the microphone, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u22	They assured us that if appropriate agreements were made and adequate funding was provided, and this project provided for adequate funding, there would be no disruptions in Parliament's disclosure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u23	Thank you. Mr. Alexeyev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u24	I ask you to pass the word to Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u25	Please turn on Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich’s microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u26	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support such changes to this draft Decision. First, delete the notion “on a proportional basis”. Why? And because we have five political forces and blocks that have gone to the Supreme Council, only five representatives are able to implement the program that the electorate promised. This is the first time. Secondly, certain political forces, which by a proportional principle will not be able to express their position for a week or two on these specially prepared television or radio broadcasts, will be excluded from this process, even though they do take part and have the right to explain as others do, so to be certain, so to speak, the glimmer. This is the first time. It's different. I'd like to make it clear at number five that this is a television company called "The Council" and that we can understand that. And the final offer. On page three.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u27	Please give us the opportunity to finish because another representative from the Communists is written on the question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u28	On page 3 where it comes from making contracts on the competitive basis of non-state tele-organizations to highlight the work of the Supreme Council of the 6th vocation, there is a coma and "the activities of the Ukrainian people's deputies". I don't want this decision today to just show that we have rich people's deputies and we have poor people's deputies, we're all equal to you. Therefore, the phrase “the activities of the Ukrainian people’s deputies” should be deleted, deleted. Then, let us say, the work of the Supreme Council will be highlighted. And the Supreme Council will be on a competitive basis making certain agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u29	Thank you for your suggestions, and I hope that they will find support in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u30	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Dry Jaroslav, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u31	Thank you. Dear Hannah Mikolayevna, I think in general that the draft of Decree 1003 is written in plain language and will allow us to organize a transparent light on the work of the sixth call session without any complications or misunderstandings. But I have a question that, I think, concerns many Ukrainian national deputies who have not yet asked. Please tell me, do you see a pattern, a normal control scheme for the execution of this order? Because it says in paragraph seven that there is now control of the preparatory MP group. Can we tell our electorate today that control will be established by the hard and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to prevent what was called on the fifth time that the entire region of Ukraine was shut down without our knowledge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u32	I hope that a fairly strong media committee will be formed in the Supreme Council, which will take under strict control its own balance and objectivity in providing information. And I hope that those leaders and the radio committee and the National Broadcasting Company and the National Council will be responsible for the promises they made to us when they guarantee that there will be no closure of our plenary meetings in any region. I'd like you and I to decide today that, if we are to shut down the broadcasting of plenary sessions in any region on a particular matter: political or, as these leaders have explained to us, purely economic problems, these people here will have to answer for these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u33	Thank you, Anna Mikolayevna. Please sit down. Dear colleagues. Please, on the basis of the vote. Zarubinsky Oleg. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u34	Thank you, Raisa Vasilivna. Dear colleagues, do you realize that a proportionate criterion, a proportional approach can be applied to a reckoning commission, even to committee leadership, rather than to the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council and factions? So we suggest, Block of Lithuania suggests, we insist, that we rule out these seem two moments, all of which are, where the lighting criterion is not to explain the content of the factions of the Supreme Council, but depends on the number of deputies. Not only is it non-democratic, but it is largely not correct and absurd. We ask you to put this to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u35	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, from the preparatory parliamentary group, the proposal has now come to take the basis of the project that you have on your hands, the presentation of the work of the Supreme Council, on the basis. Please vote. [[12:32:30]] Dear colleagues, “for” 427 national deputies. The question of the proposal came from Peter Mikolaiovich Simonek. Who is behind these proposals?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u36	Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, thank you. Write down who wants to share in the discussion from. I think we can stand that principle: one of the political forces, one minute at a time. Please log in from the discussion area. Thank you. The word is given to Stack.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u37	I ask you to pass the word to Yuri Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u38	Please turn on the Jury of the Keykowski microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u39	Thank you. Yuri Klukkowski, "Our Ukraine", "National Self-Defense". Once again, I would like to draw attention to the point that my colleague Zarubinski drew attention to: the third article, which contains the instructions of the National Television Company, contains the word “balanced”. I would like to point out that it says here that the production of the program is based on the Supreme Council's apparatus. In the fifth part, where the apparatus is concerned, the words “balanced” are not available. Thus, the Authority's mandate to produce a balanced program is not available, and there is a mandate for the national television company to carry out a balance check and not broadcast unbalanced. I think it's either a deep design or just a technical error. So in the third part, I propose to remove the word “balanced”, but at the same time in the fifth part, put it in the right place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u40	Thank you. The word for the question is given to the national representative of Jaborov for the presentation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u41	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear colleagues, we can also agree that in addition to being directly proportional, it can still be inversely proportional or inversely proportional. I would just like to remind all of us that the people of the good people, the people of the people, in the September 30th elections, have determined which political segment that has gone to Parliament, how much to speak and who the people want to listen to more. Because of this, we believe that the ideology in this draft decision is absolutely true. I agree with what is needed there, as Klukkowski said, some stylistic refinements, but in general I propose to vote in favour of this decision. It's traditional, by the way, it's not the first time, we're not opening America. This was before the previous parliaments, this has to be repeated, this practice has long justified itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u42	Thank you. The word is given to Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u43	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the Ukrainian national deputy Prutnik Eduardo Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u44	Thank you. The word is given to Prutnik Edward. Please turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u45	In order to remove these disputes, I propose to replace them with equal representation, and no longer to argue on this issue. And in terms of what's disengaged in the regions, I want to add that it's not a television company, it's not a radio company, it's practically impossible. I would like to stress once again that these are essentially technical moments associated with the RRT. Therefore, if there are other cases, this applies personally to the “RT” concert, not to the television company and not to the radio company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u46	Thank you. The word is given to Alexander’s Ally.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u47	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. It is very good that we are now being elected or will finally be able to understand whether we have freedom and democracy or not. Because this is the issue that is the subject of discussion. And it becomes clear from the statement made by a colleague from Ulya Timoshenko that we cannot see the age of freedom of speech. The thing is, we're all here. [[Applause]] We all have the right to bring our views to the electorate. And if we do not have a free debate, if we do not have the right to express our views freely, there will be no equal opportunity, that means we will never have any democracy or freedom of speech. And unfortunately, Julia Timoshenko's block shows that they don't understand. Thank you. I hope you will support Peter Nikolaevich Simonenko's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u48	Thank you. The word is given to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u49	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues. There is a normal way to solve the situation, really, with freedom of speech at least now. And, you know, talking about what voters said, how much to talk to, or three or five minutes, or three or five times, it's not democracy at all. So there's a constructive proposal from the Lithuanian Block. Replace positions, positions, phrases “on a proportional basis” with the phrase “on a level, more precisely, on the basis of equal opportunities”. Then we'll talk about what democracy has won. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u50	Thank you. Thank you for your discussion. Dear colleagues! We've adopted this project as a basis, and we've now come up with proposals in the course of the discussion, which I'm asking you to vote on. The proposal is based on the vote of Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, so I realized that Zarubinsky also made such proposals now. Who. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko's proposals, he's now once again focused on the positions he's been talking about, and Zarubinski's coming together in this part. Please vote for those proposals, please. [[12:39:39]] For 237 Offers accepted. Who, in favour of the proposal of Klukkowski, the National MP, please vote. Please vote. [[12:40:06]] For 263 Offer accepted. Please vote on the draft decree to explain the work of the Supreme Council on the sixth call, as a whole, with the proposals that we have voted on. Please vote. [[12:40:37]] For the 420. Thank you. The 420 national deputies supported the decree. It's an order. Dear colleagues! In line with our order of the day, we could now hear the President of Ukraine's late letter on Ukraine's internal and external situation. This message is being prepared, and next week we can get it to the plenary. The request to postpone the consideration of the matter, and this question will be identified within the next week. This is in line with part one of article 16, and if there is no objection, please support the transfer of this question to the next plenary week. Please enable the "Council" system. [[12:41:42]] 361 – in favour, the decision is taken. Dear colleagues, the next issue of the agenda is a report by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a previous call to the state of legislative work. I would like to invite the Head of the Fifth Council of the Fifth Call of Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u51	Dear national deputies, invited, members of the government, diplomats, radio and television. In accordance with the Rules, information on the state of legislation in Ukraine has been prepared. And before that, I would like to touch a few things, in my opinion, that are fundamental to the legislative body of things, and I would like to pay attention for a few literally minutes. I would like to say that first, on behalf of the deputies of the fifth call, I would like to welcome the newly elected deputies and wish them fruitful work. I'm convinced it's not hard for you to do that, because in fact, wishes make themselves, so it's perceived, I think. The results of the early parliamentary elections confirm that this road to the people was intended only for the benefit of a few people. By efforts, first of all, Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka, Ukrainian politics for the first time in history was outside the legal field. That is why there is no stability in the country’s life so far. On the contrary, as warned, the authorities find themselves in a state of legal chaos. The organizers of the adventure, first of all, Victor Yushchenko, convinced voters that early elections were the key to solving all the problems in Ukraine. They promised to form a coalition in two hours. In the meantime, days pass, and the elections have been held for almost two months. Very soon, every Ukrainian will feel even more about the results of illegal experiments in power, which will affect the timeliness of adoption and the quality of the budget, unfortunately, the rise in prices and inflation. The voters will see to it that all the loud electoral promises that have been so generously distributed are impersonal. Already now the well-known authors of pre-election slogans have given up their promises of creating a professional army and renouncing the appeal, starting January 1st next year, that is, a month later. The day's promise to pay off all the debts of the USSR's Savings in front of the electorate in two years has been erased. In the face of today’s state crisis, all other populist statements will also prove to be nice bubbles. The government created by the adventurous elections will find it incredibly difficult to ensure the normal development of Ukraine. It is unfortunate that the newly elected parliament has the prospect of becoming not so much a center of State initiatives as an environment of political conflicts and scandals, it will spend its efforts to overcome other schemes. Now, on the eve of the presidential election of the tenth year, there is the danger of either another dissolution of the Supreme Council, or its work under rules that are not entirely in line with the Rules. The responsibility for this chaos, which will inevitably lead to the collapse of the standard of living of our fellow citizens and an even greater loss of the international authority of Ukraine, is borne by specific policies. This is a real betrayal of the interests of the Ukrainian people. I am convinced that the Ukrainian State will only be able to return to legitimate democratic development once Victor Yushchenko is removed from power by the people of Ukraine, and the unconstitutional authoritarian model will be replaced by a truly parliamentary republic of the European type, and if it is finally completed, the reform of the power system. Following the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and respecting the newly elected deputies, I provide written information on the state of legislation in Ukraine, it is detailed, you will get to know it. I wish you success in your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u52	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. The written record is, according to the Rules of Procedure, no decision is taken and the report is made known. Please. Dear colleagues, I would like to invite the people's deputies to return to the hall to continue their work. Anatoly Sergiyovich, don't scream, please, I can hear you. I can hear you. Dear colleagues, in accordance with the Rules, I now ask the Preparatory MP to give me a word and I ask you 15 minutes to do so. Take the word from the procedure, Anatoly Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u53	Honorable national MPs, distinguished guests and invited, respected representatives of the media. In accordance with article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, as head of the preparatory parliamentary group, on her behalf, I will report to the Ukrainian National Deputies on the work done. In accordance with article 13 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the preparatory panel was formed with the participation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation by principle of one representative of the 15 elected national deputies of Ukraine. A party of regions in the preparatory parliamentary group was represented by 12 national deputies. “Clock of July Timoshenko” – 10, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 5, the Communist Party of Ukraine – 2 and “Block of Lithuania” – 1 National MP. That is, in general, 30 Ukrainian national deputies were part of the Preparatory Group. The preparatory parliamentary group began its work on November 6th and, in accordance with the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations, will cease its activities with the establishment of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. The first four meetings of the preparatory parliamentary group, which took place from 6 to 7, 13, 14 and 15 November, were held by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the Fifth Call of Alexander Moroz. At its fifth meeting, on November 16, the group was elected to lead the group. The Preparatory Group was elected as the representative of the Bogatirov Party of the region, the deputy of the head, the representative of the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” bloc, Roman Zvarič, the secretary-representative of the “Lituin Block” Igor Sharov. This meeting also consists of three sub-groups, which are co-ordinators: Sergei Sasa, from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, Mikola Azarova, from the Party of Regions and Valentina Matvijeva, from the Communist Party of Ukraine. The subgroups are organized in the following directions: the holding of the meeting and its Rules of Procedure; the opening of the first session; the formation of the working bodies of the session; the temporary bureau; the reckoning committee; the organization of the day-work; the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine; and the disclosure of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. On the issue of the formation of MP factions and the coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the sixth vocation, as well as a list of objects of knowledge and principles for the formation of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the sixth vocation. On the issue of ensuring the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the sixth vocation and its bodies, the exercise of parliamentary powers, the socio-economic provision of the activities of the Ukrainian people's deputies. It should be noted that the first meetings of the Preparatory Group were quite intense. But after the group’s selection of leadership, it worked constructively and in harmony. In a rather tight term, the issue of the opening day of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was resolved. Following the completion of the sub-groups, recommendations and draft regulations were prepared on all issues provided for by the Supreme Council Rules for the holding of the meeting and the opening of the first session, the formation of factions and committees. In particular, a general plan has been developed and approved for the holding of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. The order of the signing of an oath by the Ukrainian national deputy has been clarified. Arrangements have been approved for the holding of a solemn meeting and for the taking of an oath by the Ukrainian National Deputies. The order of opening and holding of the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine was developed and approved, the sixth call for the election of the provisional presidency of the first session of the Parliament. A draft decision of the Supreme Council on the formation of a temporary presidency of the first session was prepared in principle: one representative from the political power to Parliament. The preparatory parliamentary group rejected the subgroup's draft Supreme Council Order on the sequence of issues at the first session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call before the formation of the Committee's personal composition and decided to hold meetings in the sequence defined in article sixteen of the Rules. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the procedure for reporting the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call has been developed and approved. Questions have been raised regarding the formation of the Supreme Council’s Main Committee on the Sixth Call. You've already made the right decisions on these issues, thank you. A number of documents prepared by the Supreme Council of Ukraine have been approved, which are submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the formation of parliamentary factions and the formation of a coalition of parliamentary factions. The question of the invitation for a special meeting and the placement of guests as defined in article 14 of the Rules has been resolved. Suggestions have been developed and approved for listing and subjects of committee knowledge. It is considered appropriate to leave the list of committees unchanged and to clarify the objects of knowledge of some of them. There is agreement on the placement of national deputies in the session room for faction. After serious and uncomplicated discussions in the sub-group and then at the Preparatory MP's meeting, the necessary decisions and recommendations were made to ensure the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and its bodies, the exercise of parliamentary powers, and the socio-economic provision of national MPs whose decisions require time and patience. Qualified work needs to be identified in the Preparatory Group of Mikli Azarov, Adam Martinyuk, Sergey Sasa, Valentina Matvijeva, Romana Zvarič, and other members of her delegated parties and blocs. These decisions of the Preparatory Group were taken mainly by consensus, consultation and negotiation, discussion and mutual progress on the basis of constitutional rules and regulations. A package of documents is distributed to you by the Preparatory MP and you will be able to appreciate the activities of our group. The preparatory parliamentary group expresses its gratitude to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for its previous call for active support and support in the work. Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the organization of work and expert advice It has to be noted that the people of Parliament's apparatus are qualified and are always ready to assist in solving any issue. Let me also thank the media for their news about the activities of the Preparatory MP. Thank you to all who provided for the activities of the Preparatory Group of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u54	Dear colleagues, according to the Rules, the report is simply familiar. If you do not object, let us take note of this report of the Preparatory Group and consider it acceptable. Thank you. Dear colleagues. Please, Anatoly Sergiyovich. The word Anatoly Sergiyovich Matviyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u55	Raisa Vasilevna, thank you. I have always taken you to the democratic deputies and thank you for confirming once again that you are a democratic deputy. Dear colleagues. But I wanted to contact you with a note and a request from Raís Vasilovna. You should be the presiding officer to make sure that the debate in the Supreme Council is essentially held, and the images at the address of anyone are unacceptable, more so from the high court of the Supreme Council. I have a very sincere respect, I treat Mr. Frost differently as a politician, but I truly respect such a high office as the Head of the Supreme Council, and I represent the deputies of the fifth vocation, including on behalf of whom I spoke today from the rostrum. And I want to say that he has disgraced the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call and disgraced the high office of the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call. He is a person who is guided by personal images and political purpose, once again demonstrates and cannot have any confidence in the Supreme Council or any more in society. And I would like to ask Raís Vasilyvna to be similarly humiliated today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u56	Thank you. That's your personal opinion. Let us now consider the next issue of the agenda, the list, the number of compositions, and the subjects of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The word is given to the head of the preparatory subgroup of Azarov Mikoli Janovich, up to 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u57	Ladies and gentlemen, for your consideration, a draft of the Supreme Council Resolution on the List, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Sixth Call of the Supreme Council Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is proposed and agreed upon by the Preparatory Group. During the preparation of this project, the parliamentary group came out, first and foremost, of article 89 of the Constitution of Ukraine, that the decision on this issue was solely the mandate of the Supreme Council. It's different. We have recognized the optimum approach to the formation of the Fifth Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Therefore, it has been decided that it is appropriate to play parliamentary committees in the same number, with the same names and in the sixth vocation. It is therefore proposed to create 26 committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as well as the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on privatization, which is established under article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on Privatisation of State Property. At the same time, members of the preparatory parliamentary group made comments and suggestions regarding the delimitation of the competence of a number of committees. In view of this, proposals for amendments and additions to the subjects of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Sixth Call were considered and supported. This, in the opinion of the members of the subgroup, will allow maximum consideration to be given to the specifics of each committee's tasks, to reflect more fully and accurately the direction of the sphere and the boundaries of their activities, will create favourable conditions for the coordinated work of these parliamentary bodies. I'll stop at the most important suggestions. Due attention has been paid to the redistribution of the subjects of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the subject of legal policy and justice. The need to refer the issue of legislative enforcement of the activities of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive bodies to the knowledge of the Committee on Legal Policy is due to the fact that the subject matter of its disclosure includes a preliminary assessment of the conformity of the laws of the Constitution of Ukraine and the status of the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive bodies are directly defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. In favor of the proposed delimitation of objects of knowledge, the practice of previous appeals in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has proved to be valid and has continued. In particular, in the third and fourth appeals, the Legal Policy Committee was identified in the course of its consideration of these projects. In previous calls by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the issue of standards of normative activity, these are draft legislative acts on laws, regulations, etc., also not referred to the subject matter of any of the committees. But the legislative settlement of these issues is now an urgent need and one of the constituent legal policies of the State. Thus, these questions are directly related to the subject of the Legal Policy Committee. It is also proposed that the subject of this committee be complemented by the issue of legal assistance to citizens, while removing from the subject matter of the Committee on Justice the question of the activity of lawyers, since the right to legal aid is a constitutional right of citizens, provided for in article 59 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, and this issue needs to be developed through the adoption of the relevant law, and the law enforcement authorities are only one of the legal aid instruments. Then, the issue of regulating their activities is only an integral part of a more general right to receive legal aid. The questions of the organization and the activities of the executive service are excluded from the subject matter of disclosure to the Legal Policy Committee and are referred to the competence of the Justice Committee. Such a redistribution of powers seems to be more justified in view of the fact that the work of the executive service is directly directed to the execution of court decisions, that is, to the decision of the judicial authorities. Some other changes have been made to the Committee on Justice, including the fact that the issue of the status of judges and the provision of the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine are not subject to the knowledge of the Committee, since the question of the legal status of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is referred to as the subject of the Committee on Legal Policy. It is excluded from the subject matter of the Committee on Justice that consent should be given to the criminal liability of judges, since guarantees of the integrity of the courts are provided by the constitutional position of direct action. [[Part 3 of article 126 of the Basic Law of Ukraine]] Changes have been made mainly to clarifying the subject of awareness of committees on law enforcement and the fight against organized crime and corruption. Yes, in a more correct legal form, unlike the main version, the mandate of the Committee on Law Enforcement is to carry out a legislative work on questions of knowledge and pretrial investigation. In addition, the issue of fire safety has been removed from the subject matter of the Committee’s knowledge of law enforcement since it is not a matter of law enforcement, does not belong to the competence of law enforcement authorities, and does not duplicate the competence of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. It is suggested that the competence of committees in combating legalization, laundering of illicit incomes be more clearly distinguished. In view of the fact that the Committee on Financial and Banking’s knowledge of the issue of prevention of illicit income laundering has been addressed, the Committee on the Fight against Organized Crime and Corruption, which should focus not generally on preventing the legalization of proceeds obtained by criminal means, but primarily on law enforcement issues, on the legalization of the laundering of proceeds obtained by criminal means. It is also pointed out that the subject of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption is not only the issue of appointment to positions of knowledge but also the question of discharge. Similar editing has been done in many other committees. In view of the existence in international relations of the practice of suspending the participation of a State in international treaties, the relevant clarification regarding the granting of suspension of Ukraine’s international treaties has been introduced into the subject of the Committee’s knowledge of foreign affairs. Given that the regulation of the market in public procurement is primarily an important factor and an integral part of the State's economic policy, the mentioned issue has been removed from the subject of the Committee on Finance and Banking's knowledge and referred to the subject of the Committee on Economic Policy. The National Security and Defence Committee also addresses the issue of legislative enforcement of the Security Service and the Foreign Service. In determining the urgency and social importance of the problem of homeless children, it is distinctly stated that the issue of State policy for the protection of homeless children is the subject of family education, youth policy, sport, and tourism. The competence of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is complemented by the question of determining the legal status of such an important component of the work of the legislative body as the activity of the parliamentary opposition. In addition, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's draft decree to meet the requirements of articles 5 and 34 of Ukraine's "On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine" reflects the question of the number of committees and the principles of the proportional distribution of each category of posts in Parliament's committees. The Project Decide for You is given to you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u58	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. Dear colleagues, please sign up for the question, one at a time, the principle that we endorsed with you in the morning. The question is given to Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u59	Dear Nikolai Janović, all the political forces that participated in the elections focused on social policy issues: health, science, education, social policy, work. How do you feel about renumbering the list? Why are these committees all from Chernobyl to the end? You see, this numbering also refers to the attitude of the Supreme Council to the issues under consideration in the session room, to the issues of social policy and social protection of our voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u60	Thank you. I have a positive attitude and I agree with your offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u61	Thank you. The question is given to the Viennese People’s Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u62	Please give the word to a member of the faction "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" of Stanislav Arzvetin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u63	Please, it's Arjevitin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u64	Stanislav Arjewitin, "Our Ukraine." Mikola Janović, please tell me if you feel that the Banking Committee is overloaded with taxes and questions about tariffs and taxes? Was it not logical for this block of issues to be transferred to the Committee on Budgets?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u65	That's the question I've been insisting on for years. I absolutely agree that tax policy and customs policy should be dealt with on the budget committee. Keep it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u66	Thank you. Tomenko’s question is given to Mikoli.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u67	Please give my word to my colleague Oleg Belarus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u68	Please plug in Oleg Belarus' microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u69	Thank you. Dear Mikola Janovich! I'm impressed by the draft decision you're proposing on the distribution of the activities and functions of the committees. For example, from the UN to the OSCE, PARE and all of you have recorded a Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs has written illiterately: a Committee on Foreign Affairs: External Relations, including Ukraine's participation in international organizations, where, as we have traditionally written, the United Nations, PARE, OSCE, PACES, GUAM and others have been established behind this committee. [[two of dots]] This is the Main Synthetic Committee. I had to consult the committees, not write a damn thing that got in my head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u70	Thank you. I take note of the non-parliamentary expression, Mr. Belarus. Please, Mikola Janovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u71	The Committee on Foreign Affairs is the General Committee of the Supreme Council, which, by its status, deals with the issues you're talking about. So I don't see any problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u72	Thank you, Mikola Janovich. The word has the deputy Behves for the question. Please turn on the microphone of Deputy Beavez. Is it? There's no deputy? Is it? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u73	Dear Mikola Janovich, I have one question, which concerns the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. Don't you think it's entirely wrong for us to write in general as a function of fighting corruption, fighting organized crime by the Supreme Council Committee? Is this not the prerogative of specially defined organs and departments? That's the first one. And secondly, what is meant by the “point of destination and discharge from positions related to the subject of knowledge”: only units to combat organized crime, or at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u74	First of all, the name of the committee: the legislative framework for the fight against corruption and organized crime. Legislative security, I'm calling your attention. The human rights issue is in the law. An appropriate law requires the approval of a committee of the Supreme Council for appointment. We're adding "liberation" and everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u75	Thank you, Mikolo Yanovich. Please tell me if there is. The questions are over. Ladies and gentlemen, we agreed on one of the factions. Please tell me, is there a need to discuss it? Yes. Sign up for discussion. One representative at a time from political power. Please record. The word is given to Lithuania by Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Volodymyr Mikhailovich, please. Vladimir Mikhailovich gives the word to Zarubinski. That's how I got it? Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u76	Thank you. Honorable Presidium, distinguished colleagues. In our view, the proposed ruling is obviously subject to some adjustments. They are primarily linked to the fact that a number of committees that are proposed for reconciliation and approval intersect. In fact, there is duplication. In particular, such duplications are on committees that are linked to economic, financial, and other activities. That's the first one. One second. Indeed, the formulation of two Committees on Foreign Affairs and European Integration is needed. Third moment. The third moment and at the same time I'd like to ask this question, maybe one of the members of the Preparatory Group will be able to answer. It says in the third paragraph of the second page that committees should work under the Ukrainian Law, no less than five and no more than 20 Ukrainian national deputies. And two Committees of Budget and Financial and Banking are allowed to have up to 30 people's deputies. I have a question: are these privileged committees? What's the matter? If we have 26 committees and 450 people's deputies, I don't understand why the Committee on Freedom of speech, human rights, motherhood and childhood, education and science have the right to have 9 people, and the Committee on Budget 40 and more, as always. Maybe we should go back to the normal situation when all spheres of society's activity are in the same way as the Ukrainian national deputies. It seems to me that this decision on the basis may be adopted, but we still have to make serious adjustments, we still have to work on it seriously. Because the situation where two committees, and there are three committees, have the same powers, will lead to a struggle between those committees' leadership, who will they sign off on, who will lead the questions? Why should we immediately lay this mine of slow action for the normal, constructive and effective work of the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u77	Thank you. The word is given to Pisarenko, a national deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u78	Thank you. Raisa Vasilovna, I would like to put to the vote the proposals that I now wish to make. First of all, in the Legal Policy Committee, we have one problem, the subject of knowledge of the organization and the activities of the executive service that we are now assigned to justice. When I work with the Legal Policy Committee last time, I want to remind my colleagues that in our fifth call, we reformed the executive services and they were involved in justice, and now they are in the ministry's knowledge. So if we're voting in a package like this right now, we're taking the executive service away from justice, the same thing as taking the child away from the mother. So I want this issue to come back now, to the question of knowing the Committee on Legal Policy, because the organs of justice remain there. And the second. We have all kinds of questions about appointment and discharges related to the subject of committee knowledge. I would like to remind you that in the past, we have voted on certain decisions on each of the committees on these issues. And our Legal Office and the Legal Policy Committee have determined that these are issues that violate the Constitution. Now it's a pre-entry. the knowledge of all committees. If we're being careful about this, I think maybe now we need to rule it out, and then we need to work with it in addition. So I want two questions put to the vote. First, the transfer of the executive services to the subject of the Legal Policy Committee. And secondly, it's a question of voting for positions on all committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u79	Thank you. The sand John has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u80	Thank you. Sand, Party of Regions. Masterful colleagues! The distribution of objects of knowledge among different committees is largely balanced. Of course, each of the national deputies who used to work on various committees has their own vision. For example, I also have a view that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Culture and Spirituality on subjects of knowledge had a national policy on the development and use of languages in Ukraine. But this is part of the ethnopolitics. At the same time, ethnopolitical issues were referred to the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities, and so forth. But I think there's something you can say about each of these committees today. My suggestion is that we vote today on what the working group was doing. If we find some points in the discussion, there will be no problem in making appropriate changes on the move. Thank you. I'm asking you to put it to a vote, on the way to work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u81	Thank you. Mr Stretovic has the floor for the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u82	Vladimir Stretović “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. The Party of the Christian Democratic Union. Dear presiding fellow MPs! In the objects of knowledge that we're going to approve by adding to the decision, there's one point that's not considered purely technical. If you look at the subject of knowledge of the Justice Committee, there, in the last paragraph, the last point is that criminal justice, procedural legislation, refers to the subject matter of this committee's disclosure. But further down, the procedural legislation is not written down, but the procedural, criminal process is both the actions of the investigator, and the knowledge and detention, and the precautionary action, and the witnesses, and the eye rate. I therefore propose to add the words “criminal and procedural legislation in the area of operational investigation, knowledge and pretrial investigation” to the section concerning the powers of the Legislative Security and Law Enforcement Committee. Thank you, please put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u83	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! There's a proposal from the Preparatory MP following your suggestions, convinced that there are still many of them in the National Deputies, to vote on this project on the basis, the MP's Preparatory Group is working on it, and we'll bring it up when we discuss the following issues. Is there no objection? Please support the draft of this decision. Please turn on the board. [[13:22:53]] For 418 Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich, we looked carefully, if we were wrong, it was an accident. Excuse me, but we didn't see a last name here. Dear colleagues! Let's not be, we said we weren't. Sorry. In accordance with article 57 of the Rules of First Session of the Supreme Council, we must form with you factions of national deputies. So now, in order to form the factions of MPs in Parliament, the sixth call is called off until 13.55. And at 13.55, we're going back to consider the formation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's sixth vocation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u84	I don't have time for my papers to hand over Yasencuk. So how many more minutes does it take for us to wait? Yeah, well, 15 minutes. Okay? Then we'll wait 15 minutes before the work is done and we'll consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-23-m1.u85	Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. If you would like to invite a staff member to the session hall, please invite the representatives of the national deputies from the towers. They took up jobs. Thank you all. Dear colleagues, pursuant to article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and articles 57, 58, 59, 60th of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce the formation and registration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth convocation of such parliamentary factions. The faction of the Party of Regions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the sixth vocation, the abbreviated faction of the Party of Regions. The number of factions is 174 national deputies in Ukraine. Pursuant to the Rules authorized by the faction, the richer Raisa Vasilovna, the Kiseljova Vasila Alexiyovich, Chechtev, Haru Vasil Georgievic, Kolesnikova, Ephraim, Klavova Sergija Petrovich, Mironka, Pecklusenka, Makeienka are chosen. The faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” of the political parties of the All-Ukrainian Union of “Fathers”, the Ukrainian Social-Democratic Party, the “Reforms and Order” Party of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Sixth Call. The abbreviated name is the Faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. The number of factions is 156 national deputies in Ukraine. Timoshenko Julius Volodymyrna, the first deputy of the faction's head, was elected Turkin Aleksandra, deputy of the faction's head: Abdulina, Belarus, Vinsky, Hubski, Nemira, Fedorczuk, Tomenka, Korniyczuk, Pinzenika The “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” faction, the National Union “Our Ukraine”, the political party “Forward, Ukraine”, the National Movement of Ukraine, the Ukrainian People's Party, the Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, the Party of the Christian Democratic Union, the European Party of Ukraine, the Civil Party “Pora”, the Party of Catholics in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Sixth Call. The short title is the deputy faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. The faction is composed of 72 Ukrainian national deputies. The leader of the faction was Kirilenka Viácheslav Anatoliyovich, the deputy leader of the faction: The cook of Romana, Tarasjuka, Knyazevitch, Stackova The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is the sixth vocation, the abbreviated faction of Communists. The faction is composed of 27 Ukrainian national deputies. The faction was elected Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich, and Martinyuk, Zybenko, was elected deputy leader of the faction. The Lithuanian Blok faction, the People's Party, the Ukrainian Labour Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the sixth vocation, the abbreviated "Block of Lithuania" faction. The faction is made up of 20 Ukrainian national deputies. The leader of the faction was Litvina Volodymyr Mihajlovich, the deputy head of the faction being Sharov Igor. Ladies and gentlemen, the first plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call is closed. The next meeting will take place on Thursday. Thank you.
