ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u1	We need to open the rostrum, give the command, please, to the Supreme Council apparatus, to open the seat of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Dear National Deputies! All the national MPs, half a second, comrades, don't advise me, please, half a second. All the national deputies are coming up, we've just finished meeting of the Conciliation Council, I'm asking you to prepare for registration. They're going to give the Chief of the Supreme Council his legal place, and we're going to continue the procedure. So if you invite all your colleagues into the hall so we can get ready for the registration, we'll get to the agenda. Good morning, distinguished national MPs! I ask you to register with the "Council" system. Please include the registration procedure. [[11:05:33]] There were 228 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. First of all, I would like to apologize for the factions that blocked the work of the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, it's already my mission and function to apologize for those who, not quite like me, behave properly and adequately in the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This isn't the Supreme Council we wanted to see, and this isn't the Supreme Council that Ukrainian society wants to see. And when they talk about what happened before, I personally don't want it to be the way it used to be. What was good before is left in the walls of the Supreme Council, and what was bad is nothing for him to do here. Second, honourable national deputies, I wanted to inform you about the meetings, the long-term meetings of the Conciliation Council that took place yesterday, which took place today. We were working yesterday afternoon, if you can say so and, unfortunately, we didn't come up with anything. And yesterday, as Head of the Supreme Council, I was instructed by the Supreme Council apparatus to prepare two drafts of the Supreme Council Order. The first draft of the decree is the distribution of the positions of First Deputys, Deputy Heads and Secretaries of the Sixth Council Committees. And the second draft of the decree is to amend the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decree on the list, the number of compositions and the subject matter of committee knowledge. Yesterday it was given to our esteemed colleagues to faction leaders and, in principle, there is one positive shift, which is that we have just agreed to make changes to the Order on Listing, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the relevant committees. I think that if we make a decision about the inclusion in the agenda of this issue, it will, in fact, go as the only compatible, the only one that has been properly adopted by the Conciliation Council that we have today. Dear National Deputies! I would like, with your permission, to return to the vote that we had yesterday regarding the nomination for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. And I would like to make it clear once again that all the votes that have taken place, namely the voting, have been exclusively within the framework of regulatory procedures. And I'm going to allow myself to comment on the Rules of Procedure that each of you, as national deputies, has on the table. The key is article 48 of the Fourth Supreme Council Rules. Not the right, but the duty of the Head of the Supreme Council in the event that during the voting procedure there are any grounds that may directly or indirectly indicate that the vote has failed technically, to ask the question again - I would like to stress - through the procedure for returning to the appropriate vote. If you read carefully the transcript of the Supreme Council, you will see the clear words of the Head of the Supreme Council: please go back to the question, not the appointment, but the return to the vote. Please visit the Supreme Council website. Item two. Dear National Deputies! I gave instructions to the Supreme Council apparatus to find out whether there was a return to voting in the history of the Supreme Council? In this narrow pope, 184 times the Supreme Council went back to the question of voting. This information is posted on the Web site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, it's available to the media at large, and I'm asking you to study and analyze it. Paragraph three. The head of the Supreme Council, in accordance with article 29 of paragraph 1 and article 50, has the right, too, to ask this question. And point four is the most important. This is not the will of the Head of the Supreme Council; this is a purely collegiate decision, which is made by 226 votes. Thus, first, I have fulfilled my constitutional duty to ensure the right of the Ukrainian national deputy to vote. Item two. As far as the Supreme Council Rules are concerned. I don't think there's a secret to anyone that, unfortunately, we don't have a constitutional procedure. According to the Constitution of Ukraine, namely article 19 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 92 of the Constitution clearly states that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can act only in the manner and within the limits defined by the Law of Ukraine. That's why I think there should be a document on our agenda, not a document that's full of laws, contradictions and imbalances, but a law that every national MP should be responsible for. Regrettably, the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure are a sub-legislative act that is in the system of legislation at the level of instructions given by one or the other ministries. Is this the document that the Supreme Council of Ukraine can guide? In view of this, honourable national MPs, I would like to ask you to stop any speculation about the abuse of the Head of the Supreme Council by my right -- it is my duty to ask this question. And if there is a proper view, the Rules clearly stipulate that if the Chief of the Supreme Council violates the relevant regulatory procedures, everything is written. There is a Standing Committee, it gathers, it gathers corresponding signatures, and then it has to be expressed to the Chief of the Supreme Council. But I am willing to argue with everyone about every article of the Rules and of the Ukrainian Constitution. Dear people's deputies, please, please, please, I'm not finished yet, we'll get to the procedure, wait. Now, what happened in the Supreme Council walls was part of the vote, and more precisely the removal of the Supreme Council's right to vote in the Supreme Council walls. That's a terrible fact! There are two approaches. The first approach is for the Chief of the Supreme Council to make himself a pierre or a deputy of the Lucian pierre, which means writing to the prosecutor’s office and so forth. I want to act exclusively within this book, to which you all motivate me, is the Rules of the Supreme Council. As soon as the Regulatory Committee is established, I will transmit all the materials to the Regulatory Committee, and he will take the relevant collegiate decision and submit the material for consideration by the law enforcement authorities of Ukraine. [[Applause]] It's not about Yatzenuk. Today, this is about the authority of one of the most important branches of Ukrainian power, the legislative branch of power. What example do we set for the forty - seven million Ukrainians? What about the fact that the right to vote is taken from one another? That's why, strictly, honourable national MPs, everything's in order. Now, honourable national deputies, I would like to address today's agenda. Once again, I wanted to return to the following procedures. All right. Thus, honourable national deputies, after making a decision on the order of the day, you will receive the right to a replica, the distinguished national deputy of Lukyanov. The Conciliation Council made the following decision. It's adopted unanimously, so I think the national MPs who represent a faction are supporting it. Thus, we have not completed our consideration of the functioning of the “Council” system. It is therefore proposed that we now discuss the functioning of the “Council” system. For this reason, yesterday, at the request of many factions, and indeed all factions, I asked the Head of the Security Service, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the "Council" system developer and the technical staff responsible in the Supreme Council for the service of the "Council" system to speak in the Supreme Council Hall on the relevant issue under discussion. I propose that everyone be given the right to speak for five minutes and five minutes for questions and answers. In that case, if there's not enough time and you won't deny it, I'm going to continue the time for both the question-answers and the speeches of the respective national MPs. After that, he's acting on the factions. Five minutes to each faction. After that, honourable national MPs, we have a draft decree, now I've given a command to the Supreme Council to multiply, I'll repeat it again, this is a draft regulation “To amend the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the list, the number of compositions and the subject matter of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. After that, we will conclude an early meeting of the Supreme Council. And I think at 16 o'clock, when we open the evening meeting of the Supreme Council, hopefully we'll have a second decision that I've made to the Conciliation Council, and yet it's probably going to be agreed upon. This is about the formation of the personal composition of the Supreme Council committees. This is the order of the day that is proposed. In order not to be accused of anything, I ask that the voting order be put to the vote. First. Discussion on the functioning of the “Council” system. The other one. The Order on the List, the Quantities and the Articles of Knowledge of the Sixth Call of the Supreme Council Committees. Please vote on the appropriate agenda. Stop voting for half a second. Out of procedure, please excuse me. Ambassador Alexandrovska. I'm sorry, okay. If they want to step out of the procedure. Five minutes out of the procedure one minute at a time. Please record the statement from the place. The word is given to the Orphan Mikhailo Dmitrovitch “Block of Lithuania”, please, from the procedure. Comrades, attention, please, our colleague is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, the Lithuanian Block supports what the chairman has proposed and, in our view, we now need to move on to constructive work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u3	Thank you very much, Mikhail Dmitrovich. The faction of the Party of the Regions, Evening Volodymyr Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u4	I give the floor to Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u5	Dear colleagues, I have a question for the chairman. Mr. Chairman, may I have your attention? When there were 225 votes in favour of the Prime Minister, please tell us from where you immediately learned that this was a technical mistake and that the MPs did not vote? There were no official statements, was there anything else? So after the first vote, 225 had to stop voting, find out why. And then you come back, and you break the Rules, and you put it to a re-vote. We didn't know if it was technical or if it was people who deliberately voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u6	Once again, I would like to ask the members of the people not to accuse them of violating the Rules. Please pick up the transcript of the Supreme Council. After the vote there are two deputies from “Our Ukraine” and from “BOUT”, and there comes the MP Omelchenko, who screams, excuses, shouts and says: "My card didn't work." What should I do as Head of the Supreme Council? What else do you need? And there are three corresponding statements on the table. WINLAND’S JOSEPH VYCENTIOVICH The word is given to the Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u7	Dear Head, dear colleagues. We certainly support the fact that in the end the Supreme Council began its work. And the only thing, Arsenija Petrovich, after the presentation of the questioners, is that I don't understand why everyone is speaking, except the service that is directly responsible for protecting information, such as the State Information Protection Service. Why weren't they invited to the show? That's the first question. And the second is about procedural matters. It seems to me that there is no doubt in anyone’s mind that the word should also be given to members whose ballot cards have been blocked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u8	Thank you. Samuel Catherine Seminovna, Communist Party of Ukraine Now I'm going to give you the right to a line.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u9	Please pass the word to Alexander's Ally Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u10	Please, the Alexandrian MP.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u11	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Arsenius Petrovich, I would like to address you personally, but you are interested in another conversation. The point is that, when we discussed your candidacy for the presidency of the Supreme Council, I was precisely concerned that you should first rely on the Rules. Indeed, there is no law on the Rules, but this is a problem for the entire Supreme Council, not a matter for a specific MP. This includes that and your problem of making it the Law on the Rules. But we cannot respectfully invoke the Rules and, more importantly, we cannot deny it. You don't have the right to read morals to the people's deputies in the Rules, and that's exactly how you're speaking in this room today. Second. I would like to tell you that there is a rule in the Rules in explanation of vote. And what happened in the vote for the Prime Minister falls under that definition. Those MPs who voted and acted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u12	Welder Roman Mikhailovich. The “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” bloc.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the distinguished Arsenius Petrovich. Of course, I'd like to condemn actions, join your words and condemn the actions of the national MPs who actually show such a stubborn desire to be bullies, not the national deputies in this session room. And I would also like to remind the National Deputies that according to the 344 articles of the Criminal Code, any of us, including the Head of the Supreme Council, have the opportunity to contact the Attorney General with a criminal offence. Of course, we support your suggestions for the agenda, Mr. Head. I would also like to point out that the information protection authority is nevertheless the State Information Protection Service, and the faction believes that the representative or, at least perhaps, even the head of this service should also be present at this session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u14	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u15	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, distinguished colleagues, the factions of the Block of Lithuania seem to be working constructively today and now there is good reason for the Supreme Council to start working constructively. First reason. It was revealed that thanks to God that the “Council ” system was innocent, the daughter - in - law was innocent. And by the way, I don't think you need to pedal this question at all, because since November 23, you can call all the votes invalid and forged, so you can get to the point of absurdity. The second positive reason is that the President of Ukraine took advantage of the constitutional right and submitted a second nomination for the post of Prime Minister. The third positive reason is that it has been found that the entire hall agrees with the procedure set out in the Rules and there is no objection. So I think there are good reasons, and the faction of the Block of Lithuania is ready to work constructively, as it has done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must give the floor to Deputy Lukyanov. Deputy Lukyanov, you asked for the floor, I give you the floor. Actually, a replica from the scene, but please turn on Deputy Lukyanov from the rostrum, I think he's something important. From the rostrum, please turn on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u17	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished fellow MPs, I would like to say that the Supreme Council has benefited from the Rules, the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in its work. Not only has the Rules been violated but the Cabinet of Ministers Act has also been violated. Article 8 of Part Eight of the Cabinet of Ministers Act clearly states: In the event of a non-sessional decision on the nomination of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the re-trial procedure is strictly in accordance with article. Article 8, paragraph 2. In this case, both the Cabinet of Ministers Act and the Rules have been violated. The fact that. The fact that the speaker has repeatedly violated the Rules makes me question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u18	Thank you, deputy Lukyanov. Thank you. Your position is clear. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like us to. Let the deputy of Lukyan finish. Come on. Please. Let him finish, let him. Let him finish! [[B in m in s a l in]] Let the deputy of Lukyan finish! Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u19	I understand that Yulia Timoshenko's Block understands that they have no 226 votes in this room, and that is why the provoker Lyszko is on his way to breaking the job and not allowing the vote. There is no need to unilaterally accuse the Party of Regions of any non-regulatory action.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u20	Deputy Lukyanov, thank you for the reply. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to proceed to the voting procedure for the order of today's session. I'd like to remind you again. We have a few points. The first item is information. First. The management of computerized systems of the Supreme Council’s apparatus The other one. The Institute of Mathematical Machines and Systems of the Republic of Ukraine. Third. Ukrainian Security Services. Four. U.S. Attorney General's Office. And the fifth. I heard proposals from the National Deputies regarding the Department of State Affairs and Telecommunications. Now we're going to include them in the information and invite who the D.S.I. is going to send. Listening to their information. The second is the discussion of this issue. Paragraph three is the consideration of the decision on the list, the number of compositions and the subject matter of knowledge of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the sixth call. I ask the National Deputies to vote in favour of this agenda. Please. [[11:25:21]] For 272 Thank you. Decision taken. 272 votes. The factions. Honorable National MPs. I'll give you the right to a line. Well, please! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the information of the deputy head of the Ukrainian Security Service, Mr. Gerasimenko Mikli Mihajlovich. Please come to the rostrum, Mikolo Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, I ask that there be peace so that we hear very well that the Security Service informs us. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with the mandate of the President of Ukraine, as well as the referrals of a number of Ukrainian national deputies, the Security Service was established on 11 December 2007 and an intelligence group was set up to examine the facts of the request of the National Deputies regarding the alleged interference in the Council's voting system. On December 11, at the 19th hour, these two groups and a special group, which was formed by experts from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Security Service, and the Academy of Sciences, arrived at the Supreme Council and, with the permission of the apparatus, the Head of the Supreme Council, carried out a preliminary inspection. The Ukrainian Security Service has already reported on the results of this work, because we have done the verification transparently, openly, and in the future we will only complete this work in this direction. In the Parliament Hall, when a special interdepartmental commission was working, the workplaces of Ukrainian national deputies were checked, whose cards were not working. This is Omelchenka Alexander Aleksandrovitch, Fedorchuk Jaroslav Petrovich, Denkovich Ivan Vasilovich. These are the workplaces that are part of the "Council" software and technology complex. The relevant commission protocol, which was distributed to all participants involved, including, was made public on the Supreme Council, published on the websites, and everything was made public. There were summaryes, and for the time being we found that no data on external interference in the “Council” system had been received. Since the “Council” voting system does not have a certificate of conformity with the results of State expertise, the Ukrainian Security Service has referred to the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service, which is responsible for the security of state telecommunications under the Public Service Act. On December 12, this year, the Security Service informed the President of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Council, and the national deputies of Ukraine who had contacted the Ukrainian Security Service. I can add to this information that this work continues. Yesterday, these materials were studied at the Attorney General’s Office in Ukraine. We've identified plans for further work together. The U.S. Attorney General's Office noted that the test was going in the right direction. In addition, it was stressed that we had received material that, back in 2002-2005, the Ukrainian Security Service had officially addressed the Supreme Council on issues of identified shortcomings in the "Council" voting system. In 2005, a letter was prepared for the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which clearly referred to the shortcomings that are currently in the Supreme Council’s voting system. There are five of them. I'm not going to sound here, with these questions. [[B in m in s a l in]] Please. No, no, I'll sound it. Please. First, the Supreme Council voting system defines the result of a vote as "no vote" in the following errors: first, this is the button before the start of the sound signal on the beginning of the vote; secondly, click the button after the ninth second of the long sound signal; thirdly, short-term click on the button several times; fourthly, click the button after the end of the sound signal; and fifthly, press two buttons at the same time. In addition, according to individual experts, such a result can be obtained by pressing the button for the first second. That's the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u22	I'm asking you not to interrupt the reporter. Please report, then there will be answers. Please make a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u23	The Ukrainian Security Service is not, at present, in accordance with the Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information, it is not currently responsible for this direction of work. You all know that. Since 2006, the State Department of Special Liaison has been responsible for this work. We made official letters to the State Service to check this information. After getting the results, we have eight more days to do this work. An appropriate procedural decision will be made, and the Supreme Council will be informed accordingly, and the deputies who have contacted us. Thank you so much for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to sign up for the round of "question-answers, speeches from the place." Evening Volodymyr Mikolaiovich, Faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u25	I give the floor to Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u26	Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u27	Your Honor, you admitted that no one was involved in the voting system. That's the first one. It's different. Our colleagues, Omelchenko, and, I don't know who it was, the name from BUTU, came right up and said they weren't technically able to vote. Whether they can be. And if they didn't admit it was technical, then how did Mr. Yatsenuk know it was a technical mistake? They determined that they had not technically voted. This means that there was no interference. Then there were statements by the leader of BUT, the leader of our Ukraine, claiming to be the prime minister of the IMF that he would transplant everyone if he became the minister, that he would figure it out again, you see, the bandits from the regions made it. So first, confirm once again that there was no interference. The other one. Mr. Yatsenuk! We insist that those who have publicly offended the Party of Regions apologize, only then will there be normal work. Because we didn't intervene.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u28	Please answer. The next is Lucenka's replica. [[B in m in s a l in]] . Sorry, there was no last name. I'm sorry. It's okay. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u29	Dear National Deputy, the Ukrainian Security Service has officially published its position during the review, which lasted from December 11th to 12th this year. We don't have any other information right now. This work continues. Once you get any new data, you'll be informed immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u30	Deputy Wyakentijovich of Vienna, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u31	Wynski, faction of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”. I'd like you to be clear about whether it's a fact that the fullness of information on this example is being studied by you. You just said there was no outside interference. What is external intervention? Is that outside the Supreme Council or inside the Supreme Council? And I would like to say whether the Ukrainian Security Service has established that the monitoring of the "Council" system is being carried out in such a way that it can be controlled or seen today, as it was done yesterday. In simple words, please say, not in technical language, but in simple words. Is there control over the work of the “Council ” system today for what was voted on yesterday?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u32	First, I would like to reiterate that only a member of the Information Protection Service can answer this question. Because in the State the same service is responsible for information owned by the State. That's clear. In addition, the Ukrainian Security Service works closely with the public service, and once its experts give us their conclusions, we can conclude. There's nothing I can say today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u33	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u34	Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to hear a specific answer, however, whether or not there has been an intervention in the system. That's the first one. Secondly, the specific answer to the public information that was on television is presented by the leader of the faction "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" that they have the facts. So I conclude that they should have passed on this testimony, the facts of interference in the system. Thirdly, I think it's clear to us that the Ukrainian Security Service, which would protect national interests, was professionally prepared and knew how to do it in the country. Today, the state has a Security Service that only monitors and works for the order, and we know exactly what it does, not what it does for the security of the state. And the last. I'd still like to hear a normal answer from you, because you read a letter when you gave the system a characterization, it can't otherwise provide a vote. You've shown your profession.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u35	Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u36	Yeah. First. On three pies. Whether there's interference or not, I want to do it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u37	There was a statement by the faction's head, she.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u38	That's the third question, you said, in order. Let's start with that. Was there a statement? The Security Service has officially received only two requests from Ukrainian national deputies, and this issue has not yet come up. That's the first time I'll tell you. Secondly, the Ukrainian Security Service has been commissioned by the President of Ukraine for today. All of it. Except for these three documents, we don't have anything. This is the first time. Secondly, whether there was an intervention or not, I can't respond right now until the experts are working on the "Council" system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u39	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u40	Mikola Catherinechuk, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense", the European Party of Ukraine. Your Honor, I have a few questions for you. First question: Is the Ukrainian Security Service authorized to implement information protection? Is that your natural function? The second question is, did you study the confirmation of the vote by the people's deputies, which happened because when there were 226 votes, there were 226 votes on the screen and the cards didn't work? This fact would be enough for you to conclude that really, probably there was no external intervention or whether it was internal in the system. So I wanted you to check this out, do the necessary research, and report the situation after these studies, and study the situation. And the last. We all remember clearly the counterfeiting of the 2004 elections, so I would like you not to be surprised that we have certain suspicions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u41	Okay. Thank you. First of all, it's not. the first question of the answer. Protecting information resources in the state is not part of the Ukrainian Security Service at this time. This was until 2006, and this is clear in article 1 of the Law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information, this is clearly stated. Second, we haven't studied the question of how. I think that in the process of working on the physical, who was there, who was not there, and who, as voted, we also invited the national deputies of Ukraine to join us. And when they give us an explanation, we'll have materials to go on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u42	Thank you for the report. Let's go to the next reporter. I would like to ask the Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, Kudravtevtev Viktorovich, to make a brief statement on this subject. Mr Viktor Viktorovic, Deputy Attorney General of Ukraine, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u43	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! Verification of a statement by the Ukrainian National Deputies Group on the sixth call for foreign intervention in the "Council" electronic system during the vote in favour of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's nomination on 11 December this year, according to the established law, the Ukrainian Security Service is currently engaged in the exercise of competence. The Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, in accordance with current legislation, exercises supervisory functions, oversees the legality of the legality of the decision taken. At present, an interdisciplinary commission consisting of the Ukrainian Security Service, the Institute of Mathematical Machines and Systems Problems, the Supreme Council of Ukraine's apparatus has been established that no external intervention into the Council system has been obtained. [[National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine]] At present, experts from the State Department of Special Communications and Information Protection have been added to the inspection, which is responsible for the security of state telecommunications under Ukrainian law. The test is ongoing for the time being. The test materials were examined yesterday in the Attorney General’s Office, a joint plan of action to verify the complete, comprehensive, and objective nature of the verification. Once the decision is made in accordance with the requirements of article 97 on legality and soundness of mind, the decision will be checked in the Attorney General’s Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u44	Thank you, Victor Victorovich. I'm asking you to sign up for a question. Samuel Catherine Seminovna, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u45	Thank you for your word. I want to say that we have never done anything under this smile today if we acted under the Rules, if we had and worked on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which would be dealt with by the Regulatory Committee. Today, we seem to have no other questions in the country, we do stupid things. Someone touched it wrong the second it was needed, and we raised the whole country to do it. So I have a question. Dear reporter, please tell me how you feel on this rostrum, do you deal with the pertinent and legal questions you have raised, is this a thought-out question that is completely out of the question for the Attorney General's Office of Ukraine today?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u46	Whatever it is, it's appropriate. The statement, regarding the commission of a crime that raises the question of bringing the perpetrators to justice under article 361 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, is for unauthorized interference with the work of electronic computing machines, came to the prosecutor's office. The inspection is organized, it is commissioned, by the security authorities of Ukraine, and it has been written by the national deputies of Ukraine, Omelchenko and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Miroshenko Yuri Romanovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u48	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to ask a simple question that comes from the position of the Party of the Regions. That is, it is very important for us, for all the people's advocates, for the Supreme Council, for the faction of the Party of the Regions, that the truth be established in this matter. After all, it is vital that all the votes that take place in the Supreme Council reflect the will of the people. And I have a question for you. Please tell us from your statement that you have no reason to claim that there has been an intervention in the “Council” electronic system. Is it possible to make political statements now, to accuse someone of such interference before the results of the investigation are officially published? The whiter it is that you have no evidence that such interference had little place. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u49	I can only repeat that no external intervention has been established by checking for the time being. But the test is still going on. Experts, specialized technical experts, have been involved in the inspection and are being tested for the possibility of such intervention. There is no data at this time, of course, on any conclusions that support either interference or noninterference in this system for the time being.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u50	Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Arsenia Petrovich, your honor! The media had information about the name of the commission that was created. I wrote down the title: “An interdisciplinary commission to determine the circumstances of a malfunction in the work of the “Council. ” Please tell me as a graduate lawyer, the very name already has the apiori of the conclusion that there was a malfunction. Were the facts at the time of the creation of this commission, the formulation of its name, that the result of the confusion that arose was the collapse of the "Council" system? It's actually an already-involved apiori position. And second moment. Please tell me here are representatives of different fractions of different consonants. When such problems arise, a special commission of the Supreme Council is set up and it involves specialists and the B.S.A., the prosecutor’s office, anyone. Not really an external check is required. Is it, does it fit the standards of parliamentaryism? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u52	As for the name of the commission. Well, you could call it some kind of correctness or an invalidity of language. In my opinion, we could call it a commission in a different way, with regard to issues of concern or a problem, or a situation that occurred during the vote. For the time being, but I think it's impossible to talk about any subjectivity or prejudice with regard to the name of this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u53	Deputy Mojcan Pavel Mihajlovich, faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u54	Thank you. Please give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u55	The word is given to Turkey’s Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u56	Thank you. Dear reporter, you said that these issues should be addressed by the Ukrainian Security Service. And indeed, the law on information protection says that DS TZI, the Department of Security, is responsible for this matter. But in 2006, this Department created a separate public service, and it was certainly up to them to do so. This is the first time. And the second. You know, we've seen that there's really a protocol signed by members of the commission, there's a preliminary conclusion that the system is unprotected and that the apparatus can do whatever it wants. But I have a question. Why the commission did not, however, ask the MPs whose cards were blocked, how the process took place during their vote. Well, that's probably what we should start with. And no question was asked to these deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u57	With regard to the inspection of the Security Service, the Security Service conducts a review of the application in accordance with the requirements of article 97. These applications raise the issue of criminal liability under article 361 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which, in accordance with article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, refers to the competence of the judicial investigation bodies. Ukraine Security Service. As for the second question, I will repeat it. The current test is ongoing. And in the course of the checks, the national MPs will be called, and the procedure will be determined, the order in which all these standards are voted, the nuances that you have been talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u58	Thank you, Victor Victorovich. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the general designer of the Council system, the director of the Institute of Mathematical Machines and Systems of the Republic of Ukraine, Anatoly Alexiyovich. Anatoly Alexiovich, please have a word. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u59	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, the honourable ones present! I'm the main designer of the "Council" system. And I would like to briefly answer those questions that will be raised. First. Is there an external attack on the "Council" system? The Council system is a local system, it is located in this room, it is not accessible from the Internet, so no one outside can have access to the system. That's the first point that there is. That's another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u60	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you be correct with the rapporteur. Please make a five - minute report, and then we will have a round of questions and answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u61	Secondly, the system is built in such a way that when a plenary session begins, it is loaded and no staff can have access to the system. In order for him to get access, he has to stop the system, that is, shut down the board, shut down the jobs -- and there are no systems. And this is well known by Alexander Alexander, who has worked with this system for many years and has such questions. Thirdly, the system has a clear rule on how to work. You're worried you've got your own problems, you. You can press the button and hold it, but to the beep. All right, the system won't accept your voice, because it won't accept the voices that it uses. After the sound. Only after the beep. I mean, that's the answer to those questions. And the fourth thing I'd like to say is that there are several operators working in this peak load of the system that are insuranceing each other so that there's no misunderstanding. So it's not the only person who's sitting there responsible for it. And a few people who sit and work with you. Now with regard to the “Council” system. The "Council" system is one of the best developments in our Ukraine, it's designed and manufactured here, the "Council" system is completely Ukrainian, the "Council" system has 20 of these systems. The greatest tension of our kind as developers was in Ukraine's attitude in the early 1990s. You remember that there were dozens of commissions working on the "Council" system in the hall that were set up by the commission. No commission has been able to show that the “Council” system is at fault in any matter, and this is, thank God. For that to happen, there may not be such a wide distribution of this system. The Council system works both here and abroad, both in Kiev and elsewhere. So it is not excluded that during the excitement or for any other reason, the button was pressed in the wrong way as planned. But none of you are going to stop the car because until you start the engine, yes, it's not going until you take off the brake, it's not going. [[Applause]] I'd like, Your Honor, to come to you with a request. The "Council" system is not just what you push the buttons, it's a great science, it's about gaining our Ukraine. And I, judging from the way science receives budget money, realize that the attitude towards science isn't exactly good, but the "Council" system works for you will be good. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u62	Thank you. Thank you, Anatoly Alexiovich. Please sign up for a question to the reporter. Terjehohin Sergey Anatoliyovich, faction of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u63	Turk, pass it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u64	The word of the Turk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u65	Dear reporter, I respect our country's developers. But as project manager, you probably know that all information systems that serve the public authorities, and even though a system like the Council, should be properly tested and certified. So the first question. Why has the Council not yet been certified and certified? And the second question to you. I don't know, but you need to know as a developer that a system operator or other hardware workers at any time can block any national MP's card. Don't you think this can affect the result of the vote? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u66	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u67	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to rest in the hall. Please answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u68	First. On the first question. Yes, the system, in accordance with the Information Act, must have a certificate. The law. But this is the matter of the Supreme Council. A system that works. The Supreme Council works with transparent information and, for example, when we were invited to the Crimea. the appropriate service for them to carry out the certification, they said: “certification cannot be carried out because you work with open information.” Maybe now the whole “Council” system needs to be certified, then the whole “Council” system can really be certified. I agree, but it's not the developer's business, it's the Supreme Council's device. On the second question. There's a regime that, as you say, but it's only after giving the Head of the Supreme Council, and it's fixed in the system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u69	Next question. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u70	Thank you. Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u71	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u72	First of all, I want to ask the reporter, to say, "Dear colleague, I support you," because the scientific community does not allow itself to have this attitude towards scientific work, and I would like to say once again that the reports that have just spoken here have shown that the Supreme Council, the factions, have to sort themselves out, not find the guilty in others, as the bad dancer does. [[Applause]] And I would very much ask that they do not become guilty. Or they didn't find the shooters. The Council system works flawlessly. There were no complaints when she was running a political power, so I am convinced that we should stop this mockery all over the country and start working for us. And if something needs to be improved in the "Council" system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u73	I'm asking you to finish the date.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u74	I thank you, Your Honor, for giving me the opportunity to finish. I want to say more. That the developer scientists are proposing to set up a system that will allow for the exclusive vote of that MP who owns the ballot card. This does not require a great deal of money, but it requires that resistance be overcome among the MPs, for it takes six times a month to come to the Supreme Council and exercise its authority. And finally, using the opportunity, I would like to warn against temptation, from itching to revert to the old practice when there will be a one-day vote -- Thursday, when the chairman will be able to communicate exclusively with the reporter. We must put an end to this shameful practice and get to the bottom of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u75	Thank you. I would like to say that we are now working on a new generation of the "Council" system, which, once again, will have all the experience we receive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u76	Evening Vladimir Mikolaiovich, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u77	Please give the floor to the People's Deputy Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u78	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u79	Dear colleagues, here I am. It became clear that the two national deputies were eager to demonstrate their love for the Prime Minister first and made some mistakes, or technical mistakes. I mean, Mr. Yatzenuk, I'm saying once again, you had to stop voting, find out that this is a technical mistake. That's the first one. The other one. I haven't been able to ask the deputy prosecutor if the criminal case against the number one of our Ukraine who accused the employees of the crime? And the second. As he spoke, the deputy U.S.S.A. said that it would take eight more days to investigate. I suggest that, since there is doubt in our coalition colleagues, we continue the investigation for eight more days. After we find out that the system is functioning normally, we will proceed to the Prime Minister’s office and other work, stop this meeting, and conduct an investigation for eight more days. And then we'll go.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u80	I just broke the Rules by giving the word of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Because it was only now that I saw that Supper did not pass on Stoyan’s word. I'm asking the National Deputies to sign up for the performance to be in the hall. Jury Jaroslavovich, Block "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u81	Please give the floor to the National Deputy Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u82	National MP Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u83	Thank you. Dear reporter, three questions. First, you see that there's a government connection in this room, so I'm asking you a specific question: how is the "Council" system protected? The second question, you said that because of the "Council" there is no Internet access. Now, please answer, is the "Council" connected to the Supreme Council server that provides access to the Internet? And the third question is: is the "Council" using the technical equipment of foreign production that lacks expert conclusions or tests of conformity with the authorized authority on the information protection line?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u84	First question. The Internet is connected to “The Joy ” through mechanical. That is, the disk is transmitted from one server to another, it has no direct connection. The second question. When we were doing the "Council" system, all the elements were certified that were being used. Question three. The “Council” system is completely manufactured in our institution and there is nothing, apart from the composites, that of foreign origin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u85	Please, please, answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u86	In relation to communication, it is necessary to protect the state from the “Council” rather than the “Council” from the state connection.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u87	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the head of the Computerized System Management of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Aleksija Alexiyyovich. Alexiyovich, please go to the rostrum. This is the person who is directly responsible for the functioning of the “Council” system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u88	Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! I represent the Office of Computerized Systems and, in particular, the Department of Specialized Information and Technology Complexes, which actually administers the Council-3 system. I can add to everything that's been said before me and add to the protocol that all the members of the commission that worked here on December 11th, only one thing that the Council-3 system is protected and talking about the absence of any protection of this system is unobjective and to some extent incorrect. The system has several levels of protection. Protecting and software, protecting databases, protecting servers, protecting active network equipment and other protections that you understand are service or technological information. And I don't have the right to talk about all these kinds of defenses on the air. Regarding what happened during the December 11 vote. I can express my regret, regret that we, the Computerized System Administration, unfortunately had little time to work during the training that was prior to the opening of the Sixth Council with all the National Deputies. [[Congrats]] But all of our staff are constantly in the session room, and here are our beds, and the administrators are on the balcony. And at the very least, any failure or refusal, or any technical malfunction, the system immediately reports it to the administrator, and the technical staff approach every national deputy who has any difficulty on the remote at the same time, and provide operational technical advice. I would like to assure all the national MPs present that the absence or absence of an expert conclusion by the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service, which is today, whether it is present or absent, does not in any way affect the security of the system itself or the objectivity of its work. This is explained by the fact that we, as civil servants, also in our actions, are clearly guided by valid legislation, the regulation of apparatus, and clearly prescribed office instructions. And the "Council" software, the "Council" hardware platform, does not conflict with the nature of the political map of the session hall. It was at all the vocations. And I would also like to report that the State Office for Special Communications and Information Protection has been informed in early 2007 that the initiative of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has led to the development of a comprehensive information protection system for all, underlining all 23 active automated systems of the Supreme Council, including the Council system. At this point, we have prepared and transmitted two days later, in exactly one day, tomorrow, to the State Department a technical task for development and creation. And getting an expert conclusion, getting a certificate of conformity is quite a long time in a process that requires special measures of implementation, testing and research. I am very grateful for your attention, and I am ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u89	Please write on the question. Litwin Yuri Alexiyovich, Block of Lithuania.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u90	Thank you, Arseni Petrovich, for your word. I'm asking you to pass it on to Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u91	Zarubinsky's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u92	Thank you very much. Dear reporter, do you have any information or national MPs who had an accident with the November 22 card when you were here, including training for the national MPs, how to use the "Council" system. First. Formal logic, a respected reporter, suggests that in a situation of complete mistrust on the part of the national deputies to the “Council” system until the moment of full certification, there is doubt and, as a general rule, whether they will be legitimate ballots. Then the question arises, Obviously, we must wait for full certification. And the third. Do you not think that if the certification is carried out on the Volodymyr, it is understandable, there may be a danger that the results of the vote in the Supreme Council will, even technologically, be determined, whether on Vladimirski or on the Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u93	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u94	From the first question, that's what the information is, we only had 38 national deputies on the sixth call during this training. On the second question. I reiterate that despite the absence or absence of an expert conclusion at this time, we are guided by valid, normative documents for technical protection of information. And even though we have all the information in the Supreme Council in automated systems, all the information is open, but we're going to ensure its integrity, that is, the inability to modify unsanctioned information resources that are state-owned. And accessibility and confidentiality. Regarding the third question. The Supreme Council just gets a certificate of conformity on. in the KSSI in automated systems. But as the owner of information resources, it itself defines politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u95	Bullying Gennady Alexanderovich, Yulia Timoshenko Block.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u96	Please give the word to Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u97	The word of Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u98	Dear reporter, you probably know that you're not seen in Ukrainian legislation as a system operator, that is, the person who operates the system, yes, technically, you determine whether it's protected or not, it can only determine the relevant certificate after the certification. You haven't done it in 10 years, and it's a crime under Ukrainian law. That's the first question for you. Second question, how many administrators have access keys to your system? The third question is, how many of your subordinates have the right to block the National Deputies' cards and then unlock them? Please give a specific answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u99	The specific answer is yes. The first and the laws, and the normative documents for the technical protection of information they came up in 1999, maybe a little earlier, that's not 10 years, as you say, and all the requirements for the establishment of the KSI in the authorities of the state, they also appeared 5-7 years ago. On the second question. Nine men work in a department of specialized information and technology. None of them have the right, and it's prescribed by the operating instructions, to deactivate, not authorized to deactivate, the National MP's card.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u100	Katerinczuk Mikola Dmitrovic, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u101	Well, you're not answering the question, but you asked Roman the cook for the next question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u102	Welder Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u103	Dear reporter, since you've proved to be an expert not only in information but also in legislation, then I'll just ask you who is the authorized authority that has the exclusive right to establish whether this system is protected, or do you call that other body if you know it? The second question is whether it is being used in the "Council" system, because I did not hear from the previous report the answer to my question, the technical means of foreign production where there are no expert conclusions from the authorized body in this area. And the third. Is the "Council" system connected to a server that allows you to access the Internet? Three specific questions, I'd like three specific answers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u104	Then, with your permission, give me a little more time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u105	Okay. I ask you to complete this discussion, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u106	First question. I had no doubt that such an authorized body was the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information in Ukraine. But the Supreme Council, as the owner of the information resources that are processed in the automated systems of the Supreme Council, is able to determine for itself the policy of protecting these information resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u107	Quiet comrades, I ask you to give.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u108	The Law on Protection of Information in Information and Telecommunications Systems clearly prescribes all necessary requirements, standards, order, protection of state information resources in any public authority. The third question is to get there. The server, our server, which is actually located here in the "Council" system, is protected, it has two interfaces, and through the external interface there is a data transfer on. In fact, the web portal is what the world sees on the website. And what's more, I want to confirm that if there's the good will of the Ukrainian National Deputies and the relevant authorities authorized to do the verification, we can confirm that the logs for the 11th, the previous days they confirm -- these are objective records -- where none of the staff can intervene, make any arbitrary changes, modifications, records. They show that there was no interference, no attempts, even no interference with the “Council” system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear National Deputies! We're running out of time. If you don't mind, Alexeiyyovich, I have a question: do we have a server screened or not? Just one question, technically.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u110	Server will be screened.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u111	Quiet, colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u112	It's about, again, it's about. So what's screened, not screened? I mean.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u113	I'm asking you, just answer the question, right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u114	I'm short on answers. The technical task for the creation of KICs is to create screened servers and generally all the facilities that will be equipped with technical equipment and equipment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u115	Thank you, Alexeiovich. On your request and at my request, the Head of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine, Chebotarenko Yuri Borisovich, arrived. Yuri Borisovich, we would like to ask you briefly to express your position because your department has engaged, but not directly, but through the Security Service, as far as I know. The word has the head of the service of Chebotarenko Yuri Borisovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to inform you that the officials of the State Service for Special Relations and Information Protection of Ukraine have not been involved in the work of the interdisciplinary groups, even though such a call was made formally the day before yesterday and we have provided relevant experts who were willing to participate in the group’s work. However, I would like to inform you that in January of this year, experts from the State Service for Special Communications and Information Protection took part in the work of the Supreme Council to verify compliance with the requirements of the current legislation of the information protection system that circulates in the Supreme Council. This was reported in February by the Supreme Council, and since then, the Supreme Council and I have worked with the Supreme Council to resolve this issue. The recommendation was made for the implementation of article 5 of the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Information in Information Telecommunications Systems, which states that the owner of the system provides protection of information in the system. Despite the recommendations, the necessary documents to carry out an expert analysis of the automated systems of the Supreme Council were not available. But you have to understand that it has to take some time to form technical tasks, technical requirements, and to give us expertise. It takes time to create a comprehensive information protection system. This is a very long time. For example, it takes between two and six months to create a system of full - time information protection. These co-workers of state institutions, the banks that deal with this issue understand that this is what it takes to make certain procedures for purchasing the necessary equipment, placing the order in the institution that will be used to create this system, to prepare the project, and so on. In view of the fact that there is no document in the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information of Ukraine today, our actions are limited. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u117	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. Ladies and gentlemen, please sign up for five minutes for a question-answer. Gordijenko Sergei Volodymyrovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u118	Dear reporter, especially the chairman, I should say something that we today should thank, kneel and thank all the developers of this system and the equipment that serves it. And everything that's stuck around here is going to change the voting pattern in the room. I have a question. Who in general initiated the creation of this interdepartmental commission, by which document was it formed, and who gave the right to remove from the work of this interdepartmental commission the representatives of the Counting Commission legally elected by the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u119	Bullying Gennady Alexanderovich. Because it's not a question for Chebotarenk. Please, “Timoshenko Yulia Block”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u120	Please, Alexander Valentinovich the Turk's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u121	Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u122	You know the previous speaker here has been speaking and it's clear to us that, indeed, both the communists and the regionals have reason to thank the Supreme Council apparatus that serves this system. That's the first one. The second question. I'd like to make an honest report directly. You know, you have a very responsible direction of work, and from what we've heard, it's clear that you don't have any documents or materials to enable you to certify the system. I have a very specific question. How much time do you need to conduct the Council system's information protection certification, not interference, and when can such a certificate be in the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u123	Thank you for asking. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, in order to carry out the certification work, it is necessary to build this system first and then conduct it. It takes two to six months to make this system, as I said before.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u124	Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u125	Dear Yuri Borisovich, please tell us who is authorizing the certification and certification of computer networks and equipment. And is there a firm in the system of these, because it's an entrepreneurial activity, is there a commercial structure that the owners of this room are in? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u126	Thank you for asking. So it's the owners. It's not my jurisdiction, I don't have that kind of information. According to current legislation, yes, licensees have the right to take steps to create a comprehensive information protection system. Since there are no such creative possibilities in the state today, it is a very large volume. After the creation of a comprehensive public information system, the State Department of Special Communications and Information Protection takes appropriate action and gives a certificate of conformity.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u127	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u128	Yuri Karmazin, Party of Fatherland Defenders, “Our Ukraine – Self-Defense”. Dear reporter, I have two very specific questions that I think would have revealed whether something might have happened or not. First. How can a member of the commission say whether or not the electronic protocols of each vote have been conducted? First question. And the second question. When we vote, we have squares, and we see them, and every remote is connected to a square. So the squares turned out to be 226 even though the result was 225. So I have a question, could there be one, and is there a situation where that could happen? Because you can see right around the cubes, you can see how many voices there are when they come out, because every deputy, every counter is one square. I want to hear these two answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u129	Thank you for asking. First of all, I'm not a member of an interdisciplinary committee. I repeat, on December 11, this year, the Ukrainian Security Service appealed to the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information asking for nominations. We made the nominations, but we weren't involved in the commission's work. I can't say the squares right because we don't have the right information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u130	Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. Dear national MPs, the time for acting in the head of Derspeccia and the questions, has come to an end. Thank you, Yuri Borisovich. Here's the next offer. First questions, honourable national MPs. In six minutes, we are actually running out of time for the morning plenary meeting. Do you allow us to complete our consideration of the matter, discuss it, and then vote the verdict? [[I still have 15 minutes for the technical extension.]] If so, we shall continue without a vote, if not, by a vote. Are we continuing to work until the discussion of the issue and the conclusion of the decision on the Bill of Committees is completed? I'm asking you to put a question to the vote. [[12:25:05]] For 280 Decision taken. Thus, we continue to consider the matter. I ask you to sign up for the part of the discussion on the functioning of the Council system, the statements from the factions. I ask Kulikov Kirilo Borisovich, the “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” block. The word is given to Zvarich Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u131	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I'm going to speak very concisely and I'm going to speak also in strict compliance with the Ukrainian law that regulates this area. I would like to remind you that we have a Law in Ukraine called “On Protection of Information, Information. the telecommunications system.’ This law clearly defines that there is one authorized authority in our state that has the exclusive right to establish whether the system in this area is protected or not. This body is called the State Information Protection Service. We have just heard a statement by the head of this service. According to the results of this statement, there is no doubt that the “Council” system is not protected. I would also like you to pay attention to the appropriate service director of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who had no right to speak of the system being protected. There is no doubt that we are working today in a regime that is defenseless, and this is a situation that is totally unacceptable. So I would also ask you, Mr. Head, to use all necessary measures to ensure the protection of this system. Besides, I got up. a specific question to the two rapporteurs as to whether the Council system uses equipment, technical equipment of foreign production for which there are no expert conclusions or certificates of conformity of the only authorized body. I have not heard the answer to my specific questions, which then gives me every reason to believe that the “Council” system is using the devices they have. foreign production for which there is no foreign production. – I'll name them now – for which there are no expert findings of the public service. In particular, it's about the fact that the "Council" is using an American-Russian production device called "CISCO-24", which is not available, I would stress that there is no appropriateness test. This gives reason to believe that the system is not protected. I would ask that we be abstracted immediately from what happened when there was a vote to run for Prime Minister. We have a serious problem with our system. The system is linked to the Supreme Council of Ukraine server, which allows people’s MEPs to access the Internet system. This gives us every reason to believe that in the absence of protection of this system, anyone can intervene remotely in our system. So I would ask that we take this matter more seriously. In particular, I stress that appropriate measures must be taken immediately to ensure the full protection of our system. In the absence of a certificate of conformity for the protection of our system, we will always have reason to believe that any vote in the session room could have been in violation of existing legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u132	Thank you. Sharov Igor Fedorovich, “Block of Lithuania”. The word is passed on to the fatherless.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u133	Thank you, Mr. Head. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the opinion of experts on this subject, and the question seems to be exhausted. But we're making the most of this decision today. It's been two and a half months since the election of the Ukrainian Parliament, and it turns out that we don't have the "Council" system and we don't know when it's working, and so Parliament's work can be blocked for a very, very long time. If we now question the efficiency of the “Council” system, then we will also question the formation of a coalition voted for by the “Council” system of 227 votes, and we will question the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because the Counting Commission voted by the “Council” system. Why would you do that? Secondly, my dear colleagues, if we were to move on to constructive work, I wouldn't want us to get away with the charges. The Constitution clearly stipulates that any criminal can only be called a criminal by a court order and nothing else. So I don't think we need to create extra stress. The Council system functions normally, let's move to the agenda, choose the Prime Minister, form the governing bodies of the Supreme Council and the Committee, and finally begin to carry out the basic function of Parliament – legislative: budget, constitutional changes and all other laws that have been awaiting Ukrainian society for eight months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u134	Thank you very much. Stoyan Alexander Mikolayovich. But I did have a statement by the faction of the Party of the Regions to convey the word Miroshnikki Yuri Romanovich. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u135	Thank you. Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. You know, what's happening in this room right now is making me sad because, as far as I'm concerned, there's no attempt to figure out the problem, a problem that's extremely sensitive, a problem that's fundamental to the Ukrainian Parliament, but there's an effort to engage in political pianist work and demand that we squeeze out the experts who've been standing on this rostrum that's necessary. Unobjective information, because look, all the experts from various services under the authority of different authorities said that there was no reason to claim that there was interference in the electronic system of the Council. From which I can conclude that there is no reason to talk about forging a vote on the issue that we are discussing. And that's a principled conclusion, and that's a fact. The entire Ukrainian community should know about this. And I would also like to invite the coalition representatives to be honest and principled and moral, which you talk about very much. Because I have a letter signed by the three people's deputies addressed to the Head of the Supreme Council and the acting duty of the Ukrainian Security Service, which is that the Fedorczuk deputy was not present at the time of the vote. [[Sivullian, Kondratuk, Seminoga]] [[B in m in s a l in]] And that's a fact too. And you know you can't talk about voting and counting if the MP didn't personally vote. To be honest, moral, and principled. I'd like to say and actually continue Mr. Orphan's opinion, deepen it. Because distrust of the “Council” system will result in a factual denial of the existence and legitimacy of all the legal acts adopted by the Supreme Council through this system. This is a collapse of the legal system, gentlemen. That can't be allowed. And I think that until the reverse is proved, that's not only an intervention, but also a falsification of this vote, we just don't have the right to talk about the return as national MPs. I would now like to express the position of our political power, the Party of the Regions. And it's a principle. From the mouth of the leaders of the orange coalition across the country, there have been accusations against our party. Unwarranted accusations that we have today with the help of experts. I'd like to say that this defeats the Party of Regions, and that's the reason for blocking the rostrum, and that all citizens know why the Party of Regions is seeking, in principle, that morality should return to the wall of the Supreme Council. That's what you've always talked about, gentlemen, but unfortunately you don't. And we demand public, as well as public, before the press, before the Supreme Council apologies to the Party of Regions on the part of those who did not justly accuse our political power. I'd say more, I'd say that today is happening very and very unpleasantly as for a coalition that called itself a democratic process. There's an attempt to shift responsibility from a sick person to a healthy one, a failure to organize their work, internal disputes, ideological differences, and as a result, unconsolidated voting gives you the only way out today -- to blame someone on the outside for not being able to create a coalition. Dear colleagues! I invite you to come to a conclusion for the future. And the conclusion may be that we need to look for common ground, not to ask questions about ultimatums, to try what unites us, to base us, not to overwhelm opposition, but to try, through consultation, to make consolidated decisions. Only then will we regain confidence in the Supreme Council, and only then will the coalition be able to work productively. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u136	Deputy Fedorchuk has the right to a replica. Is the Fedorchuk MP using the right to a replica? No, it's not. Next reporter, Peter Mikolaiovich, Communist Party of Ukraine Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u137	Dear radio audiences, TV sets, respected colleagues! According to the reports we have just heard, we have disgraced the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the state of Ukraine worldwide. Why did this happen? I think everyone's long understood, because unfortunately, in 16 years in Ukraine, they're not doing independence, they're doing business for everyone. They trade technology, they trade people, they trade in consciences, they trade in honors -- everyone who is today, unfortunately, in Ukraine. This is done by those who have not shyly bought seats on party lists, and today they are talking about honor and conscience. They have long forgotten it because they have put Satan on the market, to whom today, unfortunately, the whole of Ukraine is surrounded. The Supreme Council is trying to turn the Supreme Council into a stock exchange where trade in office, property, factories, land, forests is taking place today. Generally speaking, the state is being traded today in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And the form of the law is exactly the form of an agreement, i.e. a treaty is made between those who trade with the State. What do we have today, and why do we have this? And because from the very beginning, the political forces that have supported the President and are his supporters have protested against the voter register, and just during the election campaign they have done everything to "dead souls" to choose the Supreme Council. Everything was done to use the same sad news server that we talked about repeatedly, and one of the ex-heads just on the B.C.U., in his own time, talking about when he was violating a criminal case, he forgot something about what we had today and the server on the Central Electoral Commission, which was used for the same purpose. What conclusions can be drawn from what we have heard today? We've got a U.S.S.O. working for the purchase, and we already know that. The future of the State is at stake. Why? And because the BSS wasn't doing today because the Supreme Council was buying seats on the party list, it's a threat to national interests and national security. It's different. Smuggling, which we have in Ukraine, is more than 50 percent of our goods. Today we have these computers, which we are talking about, standing in every cabinet of the Cabinet of Ministers, in every office of the Administration or the Secretary of the President, and from there all this information goes in the right way for those who are smuggling and transporting to Ukraine today. And what we can talk about today is when all the central H.E.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.A.S.S.S.S.A.S.S.A. is the boys who come out of the Zakartat district, and the lieutenants are in charge of the colonels today. What are we talking about today, distinguished national MPs? I didn't just happen to say here when I asked the question that the B.B.I. turned into a roof, and we know whose "breath" they are today. That is why Ukraine is now the territory of smuggling, of the same drugs, of illicit arms trafficking, of human trafficking, and so forth. That is what must be done today as a conclusion. When we talked about hoodlums, I'd like to remind you of the hooliganic actions that were here when the gas was brought to the Supreme Council, when water and lighter were poured in here, so let's say they were trying to set themselves on fire, saying that it was patriotism. When the blood was shed by the Head of the Supreme Council, when they fled to the house of the “Ukrainian House” and there they did all that was a betrayal of national interests. The beginning of such a coalition is only one thing — its swift end. We have really serious problems with the system today, but what kind of system. In my view, not with the “Council” system, but with the political system of the state that has made Ukraine a beggar and should be changed radically today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u138	Thank you. Lukashuk Oleg Grigorović passes the word to Turkey's Alexander Valentinovic. Turk's Alexander Valentinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u139	Dear colleagues, I can agree with part of Mr. Simonenko's speech, which is really in the land of home invasion, smuggling, crime, etc. And that is why we demand that the government of Yanukovich be removed from power, including representatives of the Company, who are guilty of turning the country into a criminal field today. That's why we want to choose a democratic government to bring about a system of things in our homeland. What's more, dear colleagues, we would have done it on Tuesday if we hadn't ripped the card out of the Supreme Council's head, if we didn't have to vote quietly, we would have done it yesterday, we would have done it today. But the fear that Julia Tymoshenko's leading government and the new government will bring order to the country won't let you steal, engage in banditry, smuggling, including that fear, which forces you to block the rostrum and not give us a normal, peaceful vote in favour of the election of the head of government and the entire composition of a future democratic government. As for those who are being discussed today. I want to tell those speakers who spoke both from the faction of the regions and from the faction of the Communists that here comes the disgrace of the Supreme Council. Dear colleagues! I remind you, maybe the memory has faults, which, according to your initiative and requirement today, is being discussed in fact for the second hour. This was the demand of the faction of the Regions that they unlock the rostrum, and we went out to talk publicly about the problems that we have today in Parliament, including the “Council” system. Now it is very specific about the issues that have been discussed today and that have been addressed by respected experts. First question. Work of the "Work" system. I've got the protocol, I've shown it in the press, by the way. The protocol is signed both by representatives of the Institute of Mathematical Machine Problems, which is a developer of the Council system and by representatives of the Supreme Council apparatus, and by representatives of the BSS, which states that, according to the information provided by the developers of the PTC’s “Council” system, there is no reporting on the machine medium of the process of scanning the performance of the National Deputies’ remote controls. What does that say, this point? The fact that the “Council” system does not at all provide for an electronic memory of the intervention of the device itself that governs this system. And you can uncontrollablely join the Council system, you can block people's deputies' cards, and so on. Next question. In 2005, as head of the Ukrainian Security Service, I personally signed a letter to the Head of the Supreme Council requiring the immediate certification of the Council system. Because there's been a lot of malfunctions, because the system isn't protected because it is. It's possible to manipulate and, more than that, it's a requirement of the law. Unfortunately, the Security Service received a letter from Mr. Zeichuk, the head of the apparatus, saying that there are other problems, and we will return to that later. And today we have the consequences that nothing has been done in the last five to seven years to protect the system, starting with the screening of the servers and ending with the normal equipment of the "Council" system itself. And the main problem, your honorary colleagues, is to intervene. I also agree with the fact that there was no interference from space. But the head of the apparatus, who is responsible for the “Council” system, spoke here and he replied that eight of his subjects had key access to the system. I think he also has the key to access. Nine men can lock up a National MP's card at any moment, unlock that card at any moment, and you know how to do it. And it was during the vote that Fedorczuk's card was blocked, that Deputy Denjkevitch's card was blocked. And with regard to Sivolski's statement, I think he can explain for himself how he lied to a colleague from the faction of the Regions. The statement said that when Fedorchuk saw on the screen that he had not voted, and he personally pressed, and in the presence of his colleagues, on the button, he went to look into the technical workers, and Sivullski worked with his remote control in his absence and testified that the card was locked and the remote was not working. That's why, dear fellows, we have to say the following with you. Of course, in order to have authority and confidence in the outcome of the vote, we must have a certified “Council” system. And until the Council is certified, I believe that such responsible votes as for the prime minister, for the composition of the government, until there is no certification, should be carried out in a regime which provides for the Rules and which testifies to the will of every national deputy without interference and without manipulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u140	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, during the crucial questions about the agenda, I would like to remind you. First of all, there was a request, in fact a request, for three Ukrainian national deputies -- this is Omelchenko, Fedoruk and Denjkovic -- to take a brief statement on whether or not to vote. That would be correct if we gave a word to these people's deputies. The other one. During the presentation of the national MP Miroshnichenko, I had just checked the transcript, and there was a reference to three national deputies. This is the deputy of Sivulski, this is the deputy of Seminoga and the deputy of Kondratuk. In view of this, these deputies are entitled to a replica. And the Sivulian MP came to me for the right of reply. And paragraph three. Deputy Lazko himself insists on taking the floor. I don't think we're going to deny giving him one minute to get out of the place. If you deny that, then I ask for five minutes to speak. Five minutes on the floor of the MPs, using the random number generator. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich Omelchenko. One minute. It's either from the rostrum or from the scene. Please, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u141	Good afternoon, fellow MPs. I'm asking you to mind. I do not aim to evaluate the electronic system of Kiev-Rad. I don't aim to give an evaluation of technical characteristics, I've got a lot of respectable people. I haven't met the deputies from another block whose cards haven't been voted on. I know, and I believe, that Ambassador Alexander Omelchenka's card didn't go through the doorbell and not after the doorbell, but she voted at the right time, where I got my finger, and I voted my finger for a second and a half or two seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u142	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u143	I'm sorry, I didn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u144	Ten seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u145	I'm done. That's why I'm giving you a positive assessment of what happened. It's not thin without good. We've found that this is a political issue, not ethical, of those MPs who don't believe in each other's order, who blocked the rostrum, who didn't believe me as a national deputy, that I turned to them immediately, because I was instructed by a neighbor, one and the other, who saw that I had a card vote. And I want to ask you, dear colleagues and friends, if Timoshenko was from your block and what happened on the 11th.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u146	I ask you to finish, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u147	I'll finish. I invite you to share a productive work. And the head of government will be chosen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u148	I'm asking you to turn off the microphone for Deputy Omelchenko. Ladies and gentlemen, in order not to be blamed again in the Rules, I am putting to the vote the question of giving the floor to Deputy Fedorczuk and Denkovich. And I'm putting the vote to a vote, and I'm asking the question of giving an extra five minutes to record a statement from the Ukrainian National Deputies. [[minute]] I ask you to vote. [[12:52:08]] For 219 The decision is not taken. In view of this, I grant only the right to a replica, which is provided for by the Rules of the People’s Deputies of Sivull. You're not there. Let's see the stenogram. Please give the floor to the representative of Sivuli.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u149	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I am very sorry to hear about the achievement of certain political goals by using unworthy methods. Our request makes it clear that Fedorchuk was on the spot that he voted in favour. And we're going to testify as neighbors that he did it. The only thing that Sivulski checked - after Fedorchuk, who voted in favour, went to find out why his voice was not counted, I checked his remote control. And what has been established? Clicking on the menu button does not burn the screen means the card does not work in the system. Pulling out the card, inserting it into the nest, the system doesn't work. I'm throwing myself at the employees of the system for blocking Fedorczuk's ballot card. And only after Condratuk had five or six times repeated the procedure of drawing and inserting the card did it work. These are unworthy methods.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u150	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people, the right to reply to Deputy Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u151	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to address you again and again, and for our voters, our esteemed radio audiences, our television audiences, to say yes, indeed, and during the election the pianists were also now the pianists. Because first of all, let's say you put the lists in the C.V.C., and you had some problems with the lists. For two weeks, people were worried that, let's say, someone was pushing you into something, something, let's say, you were having problems. Then you organized a car accident and a broken “gigul”, so to speak, the armoured “mercedes” there seemed to have turned over. We've been through all this. That's enough, well, shame on those who are like this, let's say, using our people in Ukraine, ploughing like this, let's say, things. So I suggest, Arsenius Petrovich, first of all, don't violate the Rules. Because you just didn't have the right without permission from the Supreme Council to allow people to speak. You and I have made this decision on the Conciliation Council, from the faction. And the last. Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you put a dot today and get to the solution of the problems that are not necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u152	Right on the line, Deputy Fedorchuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u153	Dear colleagues, Mr. Miroshnick's speech said that I was out of place. Well, when you look at the speech or you listen to this deputy, of course, a solid person seems to speak on a solid basis, but when it comes to the truth, it's all wrong, just like it was in action. The point was that the three of us voted, as it should have been, I'm not going to call all mechanical action. And I saw Zajczuk Mr. and I quickly went out to Zajczuk to ask questions about not voting on Denkovich's card. That was the case. So, Comrade Miroshnichenko, please, when you make statements, be more solid.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u154	Right of reply to MP Miroshnichenko. Please take your seat, Deputy Miroshnichenko. That's not correct. I'd like a replica of the Rules. I beg you, MP Miroshnichenko, right of reply.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u155	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear voters, dear colleagues, this is a matter of principle, because we are looking for the truth, and I am pleased that this is how our discussion went. Here, please, I have this copy of the letter in my hands, and I'm ready to show it. And I quote, as it says, paragraphs once, two, three, fourth paragraph: “The deputy of Sivuli M.I., having determined by the results of the vote that Fedorchuk did not vote, turned around and saw that Fedorchuk J.P. not available.’ I was just quoting a letter. Signatures of the three deputies of Sivolski, Kondratjuk, Seminoga Dear colleagues, I'm not making anything up, and you'll never see me falsifying or manipulating information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u156	Deputat Lukyanov referred to Deputy Lazko. May I have the right to reply to Deputy Laszko?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u157	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear Arsenija Petrovich, thank you for giving me your word. That MP, I'm not going to call his name not to turn the Supreme Council into a circus, he called me a political extremist. Maybe that's true, I'm really a person who takes injustice pretty hard. But what I'm saying is that our opponents are not political extremists, they're elementary bandits. For example, one MP sitting right there in the lobby, 20 minutes in my face, sitting there, squawking, threatening to attack, physically dispossessing. These are the political opponents. At the Presidium, I'll make it clear, at the Presidium, which doesn't allow the Supreme Council to work for a few days. Please learn to respect the rights of deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u158	He didn't mention you. Calm down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u159	He didn't mention your last name. Don't scream, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u160	He meant me, don't worry. I'm sitting in the lobby. He meant me. Quiet! Dear National Deputies! So you and I have finished paragraph 1, and in view of that, could I make the next proposal? On the table in the National Deputies, in fact, everyone has a handout: this is an official letter from the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine and an official letter from the Ukrainian Security Service, which has two points. The first point is that there is no external interference data in the "Council" system in the work of the interdisciplinary committee. And the second point is that the system is not certified and thus there is no really clear answer to that question. I'd like it now. Wait a minute, colleagues! I'd like to propose the following. This is not so much about the past as it is about the future, but how the "Council" system should function in the future. The State Department of Chebotarenk, which is specialty and telecommunications, was not included in the interfaith commission. As you go along with it, honourable national deputies, so that we can make the next decision. It's number one. Create a working group from: first, the Ukrainian Security Service. These are the persons who were already involved in the test. The other one. U.S. Attorney General's Office. Third. State Department of Communications and Communications Four. A reckoning commission that we have today, which is responsible under the Rules for these things. Fifth. Representatives of factions. One from the factions. Six. Developer. And the seventh. The Supreme Council's apparatus. In order for the working group to test the system for us first; secondly, to distribute to the national MPs the Rules of Use of the "Council" system; and thirdly, to give us a clear answer as to whether the "Council" system is functional or not. We use it all the time. If it is functional, let them place all signatures under the corresponding protocol, if not, let them also place all signatures under the corresponding protocol. I'm asking this question for discussion. Wait a minute! Well, don't scream! Don't scream! I'm asking questions, what are you yelling at? Please, I'm asking you to sign up for your statement. Please. What are you yelling at? Please, Láško Oleg Valeriovich, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”. Turkey's Alexander Valentinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u161	Dear Arseny Petrovich! It seems to me that the questions that have been asked today do not have a decision or anything else under the Rules. We've made a proposal to create a commission of inquiry. This is in line with the Rules. The following commission can also involve security officials and anyone, including the Department of Communications, and so on. This is the procedural norm that our Rules provide with you. That's why I think we can make this decision. But I suggest we do this after we have chosen both the leadership of the Supreme Council and our other representatives, and above all the Cabinet of Ministers. Because the decision has to be reported, the decision has to be voted on separately. That's why, Arsenija Petrovich, there's a proposal: if this decision is not given to the deputies, then postpone it when it's given to vote on it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u162	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u163	Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u164	Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u165	Do we want a constructive job, or do we want to push a decision out of the voice? There was no agreement on the Conciliation Council to make a decision. That's the first one. The other one. If there is such a desire to take such a decision out of the voice, let us vote at the same time that we will set up a commission to verify the information system, such as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, and include the deputies of Ukraine. If someone really wants the "Council" system to be run from the outside, let's make the right decision. And let's let them do the testing. I am convinced that this matter should be entrusted, if entrusted, exclusively to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the participation of the developers involved. Everything else is from the wicked one. And let's not look at the naked storm site. And that's one thing if you're offered to make that decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u166	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u167	If it is proposed to take such a decision, let's stop the work of the Supreme Council until the system is protested, and then we will hold a vote, as the coalition has done, taking a decision along with the opposition to the laws in the Supreme Council of the previous call.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u168	Landik Vladimir Ivanovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u169	Thank you. Party of regions, Landik. I propose to all of us to vote in favour of the Prime Minister. You know, they're not there for half of them, and they're gonna come up with something else every day! Come on. You're asking me to vote? Let's vote. Let's vote for luck, but half of you are gone, and we're responsible for everything. When will this end?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u170	Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, "Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense" Block. Next Alexander Alla Alexandrovna, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u171	Yuri Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u172	We have to do it on the merits, Petr Nikolaevich. Alexandrovskaya. Please pass the word Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u173	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, we are faced with a new test: either the Supreme Council forgets the Rules at all, forgets that we do not have a decision in Parliament, and that the draft is always in writing, is being circulated to the people's deputies. We get to know each other, are discussed, are being amended, are being sent back to the committee of the committee of the committee, specifically, so to speak. . a committee of one kind or another. Furthermore, article 43 provides that it shall work primarily on matters that are relevant to the Accountant. First of all, the Commission of Auditors. And the last. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, I would like to protect you because the representative of BUTO called you a thug who sits in the Presidium. I think it's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u174	Thank you, Peter Mikolaiovich. Carmazine. Because Deputy Carmazin didn't have time to turn it on. Please, Deputy Carmazin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u175	Yuri Carmazin. Honorable National MPs. Now, during the last vote, five men were pressed from our faction -- Katerinczuk, Gricenko, Gerasimük, Karpuk, Long -- they couldn't vote, they said they didn't vote. But they're right now, you see, Catherinechuk called a specialist in the "Council" system. And it was, and before that, things like this happened. So that's what you have to look at. And if that's the case, you can make a decision right away and you can fix it right now, say to the chairman, that's perfectly normal. So now we have to do everything we can to have the electronic protocols run by each vote, first. And secondly, we must accept by vote what Arseny Petrovich has proposed. I think it's necessary. And the third. That's what.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u176	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we've run out of minutes. In view of the offer I made. Sadly, this offer was not supported. Although I had a very simple request. So that we can test the "Council" system. So let's see if it works or doesn't work. I want the people responsible to report it to us. If there is no such desire, please, then you are in the general order, there was the idea of creating a special commission of inquiry, on the Conciliation Board we will discuss this issue. If the proposal by the Head of the Supreme Council is not supported, it is not necessary to establish the truth, although in the future, as the “Council” system operates. Then on the Conciliation Council, honourable national deputies, I ask you to discuss this matter. I would like to move on to the final issue of the agenda of today's session – it is introduced and organized by all factions, I stress once again, all factions of the Supreme Council's ruling, and more specifically the Supreme Council's decree on amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Order on the Listing, Quantities and Objects of the Supreme Council Committees of the Sixth Call, Registration No.108. Do you insist on a report on this decision? Don't insist. Please put the question to the vote. Well, it came out of motive. [[13:08:52]] For - 395 Dear National Deputies! For 395. Decision taken. Please show by factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-13-m0.u177	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of our agreement with you, I ask you to consider the morning meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine closed. We are meeting at 4:00 p.m. for the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. And now I'm asking all the faction leaders to come up on the third floor to the Conciliation Council. There is no need to vote because we voted for it during the formation
