ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u1	Deputies, please prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[16:05:13]] Registered - 442 Ready to participate in the evening session of the 442 National Deputies, the evening session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, the first question we have is the report of an investigative commission on the study of the situation in connection with the holding on November 26 of the sixth year of the successive elections of the city’s city head and the violation of Ukraine’s electoral legislation. At the Conciliation Council this morning, we touched on this issue, and the head of the commission suggests that since the 9-10 numbers will still be court hearings on this subject, he requests that the information be transferred after the trial hearings by 12 numbers, i.e. on Friday, so that the risk can then be definitively raised. At the same time, we appeal to the Public Prosecutor's Office, the relevant local authorities, to intervene in the work today in the violations that were reported to the people's deputies at the morning session. I think that's going to be quite right, and I would like to agree with you to transfer this question to 12 numbers. Is there no objection? I'm betting on the vote: 12 numbers. There's a vote coming. [[16:07:03]] For 346 Decision taken. It is suggested that the question be considered: Ukraine Act on Change in the Ukrainian Land Code with proposals from the President. [[concerning the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land]] Actually, it's the President's veto. For this reason, the first Deputy Head of the Secretariat of President Yacenouk Arsenij Petrovich has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u2	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs! The President of Ukraine discussed a bill introducing a moratorium on the sale of agricultural land. And this bill is rejected by the President for the following reasons. First of all, I would like to mention the legal formulation of the legislation and the deadline for such a moratorium. This law introduces a moratorium on the purchase and sale of agricultural land for an indefinite period. The point is that there is a procrastination in this law, namely, the adoption of two laws on land assessment and the Land cadastre, and also the settlement of a series of issues on state and municipal property, under which the moratorium will be lifted. So it's about establishing a moratorium not until January 1, 2008, and it's about setting up a moratorium on an indefinite term. The second question, which in this law has an extremely serious social element. In fact, this law forbids natural persons from the property owners to carry out transactions for the purchase and sale of their property. Now, as far as I'm concerned, let me tell you a separate story about the moratorium. The point is that this is the third extension of the moratorium, and unfortunately, none of these extensions led to positive results and, in other words, did not prohibit the actual implementation of land. Property rights in Ukraine are inviolable. The introduction of a moratorium on land sales is the same as the legal concept of banning land sales. What does this mean for a peasant today? In fact, such a ban on buying land means the same thing as banning peasants from buying milk, crops, their own house and everything. What's relevant is the respectable national MPs, what's relevant to the reality and the effectiveness of the ban. According to the official data of the State Commission, more than 31,000 acts of land sales were carried out in Ukraine. Moreover, an information report has been posted on the official website of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on 20.11.2006, which notes that the continuation of the moratorium on land leads to only one — speculation on land and a reduction in the value of such land. This is the official position of the government, which is published on the Cabinet of Ministers' website. With regard to the legal consequences of the moratorium. Regrettably, the third - time moratorium has formed a significant shadow market for the earth. There are a lot of schemes by which land and pies are passed from the ownership of the farmer and from the ownership of the owner to the ownership of the buyer. First of all, it's about changing the target assignment and the subsequent sale-purchase agreement, kind of through bond contracts, kind of through credit contracts, as well as fixed-term contracts. Thus, it can be made clear that the legal mechanism for banning the sale of land today does not work in Ukraine. As for the argument that there is no legal regulation of the land market. I would like to point out that today there are more than 40 legislative acts in Ukraine that regulate the land market and 340 legal acts issued by the State Commission on this issue. For example, in Ukraine, the Ukraine Land Assessment Act, Ukraine Land Protection Act, was adopted in 2003. Ukraine has also adopted the Law on the Delimitation of Lands and Delimitation of Lands in Nature. So a whole series of legal acts are now functioning in the state. Another issue is the execution by government officials of these legal acts and the abuse of government officials in the functioning of the land market. As far as agro-industrial development is concerned. In view of the fact that the land pie is not a sale-for-sale market today, or more specifically, it will not be a moratorium, it is a significant limitation on the lending of the agri-industrial complex. So today, as much as a borrower can count on, it's a crop freeze. This tool is not adequate for modern market conditions. In view of the foregoing, the President of Ukraine has decided to reject the bill. However, the President expresses his position, which is that of the following. By removing a number of legal contradictions, namely, restoring the constitutional rights of citizens to purchase and sell property, clearly defined deadlines for the introduction of necessary legislation and not binding moratoriums on the sale of land to the adoption of the relevant legislation, such conditions would be the direct fulfilment of the requirements of the Universal, paragraph 21 to which all the signatories of the Universal were obliged by 1 January 2008 to create a market for land, not to continue the moratorium. Thus, subject to the adoption of an alternative bill by the President of Ukraine, the issue of its signing will be considered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u3	Wait a minute. Is there a question for the reporter? Please write down the questions for ten minutes. Wine, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u4	Viennese. I'd like to make it clear, Arsentiy Petrovich, you're an experienced economist, you don't understand, if we don't even beat the President's veto, there will be no market, but there will be pure speculation, and there will be "reversible forms". You're an experienced marketer, you don't understand that we don't have any market relations without legislative regulation of these agrarian processes. And you know very well how a person who's studied the experience of the action, that there's no country civilized, where the purchase and sale of agricultural land takes place without legal settlement of these processes, and we don't have that settlement. How can these things be permitted today without legal settlement?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u5	Dear Joseph Vicentiyovich, I would like to present the statistics again. There are 40 laws in place in Ukraine that regulate land-sales transactions, and the State Commission has adopted 340 legal acts on this issue. All land-sale operations are subject to notarization, there is a single register of rights in Ukraine, and all of these transactions are now registered in the register. The Earth cadastre is nothing more than a register of existing rights and really needs to be done. But I would like to remind you that in 2003, 195 million copies of the World Bank’s land cadastre were issued. United States dollars. Today, 2007 and today, these costs are being fought between the State and the Ministry of Justice, which will be involved in the land cadastre. So if it's about creating a suspension condition for a moratorium, it's not a fixed term. Once again, I would like to point out that the President of Ukraine supports the position on the additional legal and regulatory settlement of these issues. However, let us write out a law that does not bind the abolition of the moratorium to the adoption of laws or regulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u6	You didn't quite answer the MP's question. However, Tarasov asks questions. Please. To the side, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u7	Dear Arcentius Petrovich! I'd like to understand some logic in your statements. I'm not going to talk about what's broken the Universal of National Unity, you're treating it in your own way. But, please tell me, are you talking about the President indignant about the shadow market of the earth? Yeah? But for it to be gone, there are authorities. And today, actually, the entire executive vertical is still under the President. Who's the president to complain about? Whom does he reproach? The other one. You say that the struggle between the State and Minust comes at the expense of the funds allocated for the formation of the Earth’s cadastre. Who have these organs been under for a long time? Just about a few months ago, they're said to have left the President's orders.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u8	First. Let me quote the Universal: ".implementation no later than 1 January 2008 of the full market for land."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u9	Keep reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u10	The other one. “with the creation of a material and organizational framework for the necessary legal and regulatory framework.” But once again, I say that the key phrase is “. the introduction no later than January 1st." with the creation of a yes, but nowhere is the word that the introduction of a moratorium. The other one. It's about the executive vertical of power. Under the current Ukrainian Constitution, the Cabinet of Ministers is the highest executive body in Ukraine. Question three. That's 195 million dollars. Once again, I wanted to remind you that 195 million dollars were signed in 2003, not in 2005 or 2006.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u11	Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u12	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Sukh.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u13	Thank you. Jaroslav Dry Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Arsenius Petrovich, as I continue with my colleague Boko's opinion, I want to say that I have also tried desperately to understand the logic and reasoning of the President. Well, as always, it's either very difficult or impossible. You tell the President, his behavior, when he's openly or boasting about his veto right, today he's talking about the fact that it's not politics, it's not the President's behavior, it's the behavior of a businessman who's guilty of something, and now he's doing it, or it's just a person who wants to make something happen. Please state the basic means of production: earth. Isn't this the same kind of production as a factory or a factory, that's the basic product that's produced by nature. It is not clear that land privatization should have its own specificity. So I'm asking you to call the law one, at least to which the sale of land will not harm the national economic interests and the small Ukrainian country for which one man is crying.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u14	No one under a valid Ukrainian Constitution has the right to restrict property rights, including that of a peasant. There is no law against selling land, nor is there any law that would force a peasant to sell the land. Thus, the introduction or non-implementation of a moratorium does not mean that the land will be sold out. This is a personal matter of a peasant and does not need to be told how to live his life. He will determine for himself. He's set up by this situation, he rents it to this land or he sells it, or he sets up the land and gets the credit.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u15	Arsen Petrovich, it's not in the Constitution, but we won't have a discussion. Let's answer the questions. He asks questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u16	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, it is clear that the existence of the land market is impossible. But for the normal functioning of the market, there are draft laws that can be passed within two or three weeks and in that case, so today the land market can work civilly. I think the President meant this in order to initiate, let's talk, an accelerated path for the introduction of the land market. Is it something like that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u17	The earth’s market is not limited to the state. The earth’s market is also born by economic agents. And it's a synchronous process. Once again, I would like to point out that Ukraine has been implementing land reform for almost a decade. During this time, a number of legal and legislative acts were adopted. That part of the legislative acts that is set out for example in the law that the President is committed to are already adopted today. And the Land Assessment Act has been in place for three years. And the question lies solely in the scope of implementation of this law by government officials. The laws are good, the laws are bad. The Head of State stands for the following position that if we introduce a moratorium, then let us introduce a moratorium on a clear term and with the immediate adoption of the entire package of legislation, rather than the imposition of conditions under which it is not understood when this moratorium will end, since it is already going on for the seventh year in fact. In 2001, the Land Code banned land sales by 2005. Alexandre Alexandrovich, this is an article of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u18	But I have the Constitution in front of me, look. It's just that we may have different texts of the Constitution, but I have what's official, so please. I'll read it later, okay. The attendant asks a question. Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u19	“Julia Timoshenko Block”, Jan Ivan Ivanovich, Sumščina. I'm against selling land, robbing peasants. I give the word to Tomenka Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u20	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u21	Arsenius Petrovich, we've probably been here a week to analyze what the President means. And frankly, I'm concerned because the President had a unique opportunity to write in our address or to tell us what he meant. Because he made a general declaration that he was against it, but he didn't make any proposals. Now you're saying on his behalf that he meant something. Obviously, as the President's team, you have to write clearly what the President meant, because we meant what you said on behalf of the President: in the year until 1 January 2008 to make a civilised market, not a shadowy one where these drug dealers are already making terrible bribes on the countryside. So, of course, you had to report the President's proposals, not what he had.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u22	Dear Mikolo Vasilovich! The President of Ukraine made the following decision in the exercise of the veto: not to tell the Supreme Council in which form to adopt a law. The President rejected and allowed the Supreme Council to decide for itself on a different draft law that would not violate the constitutional rights of citizens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u23	Please, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u24	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Please tell the President's veto to ban the sale of agricultural land I appreciate as a veto for the Law on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption. But I thought the President was a deeply believing person, and I don't think he would be able to take that step in the pre-war, Christmas holidays. Maybe he's got the devil wrong, maybe someone else. I'd like you to tell me who put him up to this. And perhaps the French actor Depardier, to whom on New Year's Eve did the President promise 200 hectares of Ukrainian land? Isn't that right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u25	I don't know how to answer that. Do you want to answer separately? I'm sorry, but if you want, the head of state makes his own decision, he doesn't have any counselors. And what I would like to point out about the promise of this law is that if this law continues to work, some groups of new Ukrainian latifundists will continue to buy these land pies for half-priced peasants and trade them at very different prices after the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u26	Arsenius Petrovich, please sit down. Thank you. Michael Gladys, head of the committee of profile, has the floor. Please. And I'm asking: let's essentially think about the question, not get involved in the work of the French and others. I'm asking you, this is our internal question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u27	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! I hope you're better at this law than Mr. Yatsenuk did today. The more this law has been discussed in the session hall, so I will not stop at the lecture. Removing the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land without addressing the whole range of land market issues is premature. This was highlighted in the recommendations of Parliamentary hearings: “Contemporary status and prospects for land relations in Ukraine” – by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision in September 2006. Therefore, the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Land Code on the Prohibition of the Sale of Agricultural Lands until the adoption of the relevant legislation is well founded, giving time for the development of land-related laws on the State Land Market cadastre. This was the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Scientific and Experimental Authority, proposing to overcome the President's veto. The Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations at its meeting unanimously, I stress that all factions have decided to overcome the President's veto on this law. I strongly ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u28	Have a seat, please. Just a minute. Is there a question for Mikhail Vasilovich? Is it? Please sign in. Makienka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u29	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u30	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Thank you. Mikhail Vasilovich, of course, we have made a decision after difficult and lengthy discussions on the land issue, decided to vote in favour of the veto and the moratorium. But I would like to pay attention to what Yatzenuk Arsenius said to you. You tie the moratorium, the length of the moratorium, to the adoption of laws or other laws. Here you gave us literally an hour ago a draft law on the rejection of the draft law on the state land register. Where is the guarantee that by 1 January 2008, we'll have these registers, cadastras and everything else, and then in December 2007, you'll say, sorry, let's do it another year, let's do it another year. And so to infinity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u31	Dear colleague, the third time the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land continues, and not one law that has previously been enacted has provided for legislation to be adopted. I think it was a big mistake. On the contrary, we did the right thing by specifying the two strategic bills that we will necessarily adopt. Then, by January 1, 2008, from January 1, 2008, I mean, we will definitely enter a civilized, transparent earth market. If we don't make that call, we're back to January 1, 2008, and we're going to continue the moratorium.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u32	Chevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u33	Please pass the word to Victor Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u34	Victor Terrence, "Timoshenko's Yulia Block". Dear reporter, please comment on your view of such a situation, such as the possibility of such a situation. When there's no price on land, there's no cadastre, there's no bank to help people, there's no bank to help peasants, then it's very simple, actually, I'm talking even for those who listen to us, just for people. Boys come with loaded, you know, pockets, come to the Mercedes, buy land for nothing, absolutely. Let's say a hundred dollars buy a hectare of land, then they sell it for 15,000 or something. And then the peasant spends a month or two of this money, he has to leave the village to go into the city, there's no real work in the city, the Ukrainian village dies not only economically, but also like the Ukrainian parish, where Ukrainian language is preserved, Ukrainian customs. Because Ukraine is still in that village today. I mean, do you see another scenario when we don't beat the President's veto?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u35	Dear colleague! You gave yourself the answer to your question. Imagine, if we have not overcome the veto today, there is total chaos in the market for the earth. One. And the second. There's a shadow economy that loses a state that has no taxes, and most of all, we're taking land from land owners for nothing. So in the bill or already in law, we've outlined all the nuances and put an end to the actions that you've just been talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u36	Kulczynski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u37	Please pass on the word of Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u39	Lila Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Mr. Gladys, I am moving away from those words that have told you many deputies who have asked questions and you yourself. It may seem that we will take another year to adopt a moratorium so that a two - command system of power that is being established in Ukraine can play that ball in both fields. To what I am leading, I have in my hands a draft decree of the local self-government committee of December 25, 2006, rejecting the Ukraine Land Cadastre Act, which is the draft decree. And that's what we're doing in the walls of our Parliament. And one day we reject the Land Cadastre Act, not for work, but in the other hand, we vote for a moratorium. And so we go into even more "wild" legal nihilism than we did a year or two ago when we wrote "until this moratorium" and "in what term."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u40	Ms. Lila, this is exactly what we wrote down in this bill until January 1, 2008. And in that time, in a year, we have to adopt appropriate laws. With regard to the State’s cadastre, we discussed today on our committee of heads on issues of the Committee of Self - Government Authorities. And we've practically agreed on 99.9 percent, and I think in February the Law on State Land Cadastre will be with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u41	Thank you, sit down. In fact, even the discussion took place, although this is not provided for by the Rules. But the question-answers were essentially to determine the essence of the position and the President's Institute and the position of the deputy corps. I would like, without commenting on the speeches, the questions, the answers just to refer to the rules of the Constitution. The President's veto has a reference to the 14th article of the Constitution and the 41st. They're not exactly one subject, I'd say, because that refers to the rights of citizens -- 41 articles of the Constitution and clearly defined rights of jurisdiction under the law. But every article and 13th, which in this respect has a decisive place, because it applies to the ground, gives twice the reference to the law. And the 14th article sends a reference to the law, it has to be governed by it, because the land is not milk, Arsentiy Petrovich, has just talked about, he's an experienced economist, and he knows that these are completely different things. And as one of the deputies put it, to use the land as an object of collateral, when it has no price, it will be the same object as was state property during industrial, construction. Ask those people who had vouchers, and they'll say what 25 copies a voucher is worth, and what a mortgage might be, what kind of mortgage this property could be. Therefore, laws must be prepared, as defined in a document adopted by the Supreme Council. And as to the need for the adoption of this law, even the President made a statement on January 4 in Cologne during a press conference. I think in this case it's not about Victor Andryovich, it's about the President's Institute, how some of his assistants are preparing materials that, well, are somehow forced by the President himself to step out of the deadlock that he's been put into, let's say, helpers, conditionally. But in this case, the procedure provides for this order: the President's proposal to reject the law is voted first. So I'm making the President's proposal to reject this law. It is not stipulated in the Rules, read the Rules. I'm betting on the President's motion to reject the law. [[16:36:25]] For-64 This decision is not supported by the Supreme Council. Then I propose to the committee to overcome the President's veto. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:36:52]] For 367 Decision taken. Please, by the factions. Region Party -185, Block Timoshenko - 120, Our Ukraine -5, Socialists -31, Communists - 20, non-fractional - 6. I ask the Committee on Land Relations, Mikhailo Vasilovich, that there be no doubt that the adoption of this law, let's say, is blocking the development of industrial enterprises, construction complexes or that the issue of regulating changes and property relations in these objects. If this is necessary, consider the matter with the Cabinet of Ministers and bring it up for consideration by the Supreme Council. As far as the area is concerned, I would like to take this warning to the attention of Arsen Petrovich and those who are concerned. This law does not apply to dowry. Please note this. This is regulated by the Earth Code and other normative instruments. This law applies to agricultural land. And I think it's all of them. And manufacturing, by the way. So I would like you to pay attention to this situation. Let us also consider what I have said about the preparation of the necessary bills by Mikhail Vasilovich, the committee. Just a minute. With motive? Tuckenko and Kirilenko are motivated. Please, one minute at a time. Tuckenko Alexander Mikolaiovich, then Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u42	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners! We are grateful to all those deputies who voted in favour of the veto. Thank you very much. But I would like to make an offer. If the President is so eager to trade the Fatherland, the life space of Ukraine, and we don't know in history that the President is signing the State Land Sales Act, I think we're going to do a three-year land sale experiment on the basis of the Lviv Region. The land of the Lviv region along the cadastre of the eastern part gives way to three times the productivity. So let's do a model over three years and based on the Lviv region, which is the biggest market relationship that's worked, we're going to work the price mechanism, we're going to work the earth cadastre, and we're going to see that we're intruding. If we invade as industrially and for the destruction of the agro.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u43	Kirilenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u44	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, we have to say that we have not solved the problems today. The black illegal sale of rural land continues only now under the name “morator, which year after year”. The Supreme Council of Ukraine today has failed to limit the operation of this black sale. And since the President’s proposal to speed up the adoption of the State Cadastre Act, the market for land and other legislative acts has not been taken into account, the savvy parts that, using the judicial system and other institutions, take land into the peasants, continue to work and do their black work, and all the factions that have voted in favour of the veto today have failed to take that moment into account and thus contribute to these black areas. We think that this approach is unconstructive, and all the land laws, six at least, all of them are dead weights in the Supreme Council and no one will consider them, because this Anti-Crist Coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u45	I think we exchanged compliments, not out of motive, and we're done. Let's move on to the next question, please. And I'd like to be up to date with the adopted law or the veto, well, inform. I'm obviously going to ask the President today to sign this law immediately so that someone doesn't take advantage of it until from the first of January to today or until the time of the introduction of the law has begun to operate on the basis of a regulatory basis that was not regulated by the laws already adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now proposed to consider the State Economic and Social Development Programme of Ukraine for 2007. But we have a letter from the Cabinet of Ministers. And the Committee on Economic Policy agrees with the rationale of this letter that, after the veto was imposed on the State Budget Act and its work, there are today some 200 differences between the document, which is called the Economic and Social Development Programme, with the content of the budget. And in this context, it is necessary to bring the program into line, since these are documents that work at one time in one period: during the year. Therefore, it is suggested that the next plenary week, the first week of February, should be moved to the next plenary week. And I'd like your permission. Well, more faithfully, yes: to postpone consideration of the matter, and the government and the committee of profile will determine its consideration and the timing of the consideration. I would like you to support this proposal: to remove the issue today. Please support this proposal. [[16:43:31]] For 258. Decision taken. The issue is being considered again after the revision, the Basic Principles for the Development of Information Society in Ukraine in 2006-2015. Reported to the head of the Committee on Science and Education, Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Science and Education, commissioned by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 3 November this year, has been working on the Ukrainian Law on Basic Principles for the Development of Information Society for 2007-2015. So it was called earlier in 2006, then it was changed, 2007. The Committee and the Advisory Council on Informatics at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after considering the amended law, recommends that it be adopted for the following reasons. First of all, Ukraine is a member of many international organizations and this involves the active implementation of their decisions. Many documents were adopted by the international community: the Akinau Charter of the Global Information Society, the Geneva 2003 decision and the Tunisian 2005 global summits at the highest level of information society, dozens of new documents and dozens of important international decisions each year. Ukraine is still wondering if we should join these initiatives. By the way, a calming attitude toward this is characterized by the lack of official translations of these documents. It is time to move on to concrete action with the implementation of international recommendations and move along with the world. That is why the adoption of the law will enhance Ukraine’s international authority by demonstrating its desire to fulfil its international commitments to develop an information society and to try to take a decent place in the world. It's different. Internal problems today include the imperfections of national policy on the introduction of new information technology. Ten days later, the Ukrainian Law “On Priorities for Science and Technology” ended, which identified new computer tools and technologies for informing society as the fifth priority. If nine science and technology programmes were implemented in 1996, eight years later, 2001-2006 four years later, no budget funding for any of this priority programme is foreseen for the following year. In 2007, the Act on Priorities for Innovation was again postponed, and some amendments to the proposed law to your attention. Third. The urgent need is to shift the attention of the authorities to society from technical aspects of the introduction of information and communication technologies to social aspects. The most modern technology without man is usually dead iron. And the scheduled coup took place again in many countries of the world. Once again, I urge you to look at the priorities established by this law. Increasing population access to modern technologies, including the provision of new opportunities for people who need social protection and assistance to expand their capabilities. When it comes to developing Internet communication at home, and so forth. Developing electronic governance and democracy, stimulating, creating electronic resources in Ukraine's presence in the world's information space, preserving cultural heritage, supporting a domestic producer, etc. That is why the general principles of public information policy in the field of information have already been defined by the laws of Ukraine on the national information program and on the concept of a national information programme, in other words, do not match the level of modern world views. There are also divergent principles, information laws embodying technological aspects, and the information society law stresses social aspects. Another flaw in the information laws is that they are outdated. It is estimated that the deadline for updating information, communication technologies is three or five years, and these laws were developed in the first half of the 1990s and adopted in 1998. Finally, the law is the collective creativity of the country's leading scientists, manufacturers, information and communication experts. It was designed to implement the recommendations of parliamentary hearings on information society development in Ukraine, which was held in 2005. This law is to some extent costly. for further tasks, creating a competitive Ukraine. To sum up, we need to remind ourselves of the sad assessment of the state of the art given almost a year ago by the General Audit Authority. Today, information in Ukraine is a systemless, long-term process characterized by a lack of promising goals and tasks in the context of the socio-economic development of the state. That's why not, in order to provide the processor with a new information society, with a system, with Ukraine as a state of modern information and communication technology, calls on you to support the committee's proposals for the adoption of the amended law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u47	Deputies! The procedure for dealing with such a matter is provided for in the Rules, as discussed in the second reading. Here in the document given to you, there are 114 proposals made by national deputies. All of these proposals are taken into account. I'm asking the authors of these proposals, don't you have any comments about the committee's decision? Maybe you're giving up on them, your suggestions, maybe we've come up with some other way of thinking. There's no such thing. So I have every right to put this project to a vote as a whole as a document that takes into account all the proposals made by the deputies. I'll bet you a vote. [[16:50:43]] For 339 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Antarctic Activities is under consideration, too. Reports Mikhailo Vasilovich Zubec. Catherine Samuel, I'm sorry, the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, the Committee has considered the proposals made by the President of Ukraine to the Act on Antarctic Activities and proposes to adopt legislation in a new edition with partial consideration of the President's proposals. The President's proposal for international cooperation in Antarctic activities is taken into account. The definition of the representative of Ukraine shows that the activities of the representatives of Ukraine in the Antarctic organizations are not diplomatic. That was the president’s observation. We counted it. And the President's proposals for Appendix 6 to the Environmental Protection Protocol to the Antarctic Treaty, which was not ratified, so we didn't take it into account. But now this law includes an appropriate entry in the “Final Positions” regarding the term of its validity, i.e. after its ratification. These proposals needed to be amended in some other articles of the law. Other proposals by the President were carefully handled by the deputies, along with the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and were rejected. That was the conclusion reached by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The main question is that the rules and prohibitions established by this law are articles 2, 9, 10 made in accordance with the provisions of international law. I mean, by law, we have brought our national legislation into line with international standards. And those who were preparing the President's veto probably didn't count. This is also the specificity of the law, the specificity of this law that we are considering. It is also impossible to agree with the President's proposal to identify several central executive authorities for the management of Antarctic activities. This will cause the budget to be dispersed, complicate the management of this activity. Antarctic activities are mainly scientific activities. And that's why the Ministry of Education and Science is doing this. And it seems to us that we have agreed with the Scientific and Expert Authority that we should leave one central authority. Therefore, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education asks the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the Committee's proposal and to enact this law in a new edition, taking into account the President's proposals in part. I will note that last year Ukraine became a consultative party and became a full member of the Antarctic partnership, and it has the right to vote decisively. In addition, in June 2008, the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Council will be held in Ukraine, the highest body in the Antarctic administration. This is a show of respect and confidence in Ukraine as a full member of the Antarctic party. Thus, the adoption of this law is quite relevant and shows that Ukraine takes its international obligations seriously and pursues meaningful activities in Antarctica. The main thing is that we have brought our national legislation into line with the requirements of international legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u49	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The same procedure as the second reading. The President's amendments, which are rejected, we don't consider because they were rejected last time. I would like to remind you that when we consider the President's remarks, we have entrusted the PIC with the task of developing this document. It has been developed, and significant changes have been made, including the President's proposals, and several new proposals have emerged that fully comply with this normative instrument with international legal instruments. In this regard, we have the opportunity, taking into account the proposed amendments, to place the right column of the comparative table on the vote as the Antarctic Act. I ask you to determine by vote. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[16:56:22]] For 391 Decision taken. Thank you. The Ukrainian Personal Data Protection Act has also been developed and is being considered in the same order. He is reported by Zablotsky Vitaly Petrovich, deputy chairman of the Committee on Science and Education. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u50	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues are deputies, the Committee on Science and Education has been working on the Ukrainian Supreme Council's Personal Data Protection Act since 3 November this year. In addition to all the members of the committee, leading experts from the Secretariat, the United States Human Rights Council, the Ministry of Justice, the Academy of Legal Sciences, the Ukrainian Security Service, and so on have worked hard in the working group. All of these experts have drafted a radical bill that I reported to before November and the paper you have proposed is a practically radically revised bill that took into account virtually all the comments and suggestions made by the President of Ukraine in the appropriate response. In general, if you see about a hundred proposals were made by members, members of the Committee for Science and Education. And almost all of these proposals contain all the comments and suggestions made by the President before this bill. So I'd like to take that into account. Secondly, if you think about the content of the law that is being proposed, you want to point out that, some 25 years later, we are getting closer to the basic positions of European personal data protection legislation, which was launched in January 1981, when the resolution in Strasbourg was adopted on this very issue: the protection of personal data. And virtually every year, if I am not mistaken, and even more often, the Council of Europe and the relevant European structures have adopted new and new resolutions, declarations, appropriate acts that have created an appropriate environment for the protection of unalienable human rights, to which and to which the intangible rights, such as the right to personal data, apply. So the law that we are currently considering and proposing is a big and fairly significant step in the Europeanisation of Ukraine. Well, secondly, I want to say that it will take us a lot of serious work to ensure that the standards of this personal data protection law are implemented already in the form of relevant articles, which will be contained, say, in the Ukrainian Labour Code, in appropriate legislation, which will clearly govern who and on which principles will protect these rights. In particular, it is about creating, perhaps, a suitable data protection ombudsman for Ukraine and so forth. Appropriate moments and suggestions can be seen in the final positions of law. And once again, I want to say that we can't delay adopting such a basic personal data protection law, wasting the time that we can and should use to extend humanitarian policy to an extremely important area where personal data is concerned, their processing, their protection, which is actually the queen of human rights, the personification of human dignity. So I ask you to support the committee's proposal and vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u51	Thank you, Vitaly Petrovich. Also, the procedure for the second reading. Almost 100 amendments to the law have been made. In fact, the idea is preserved, and the content is legally more accurate than the first time. And that leads to some conclusions. First of all, we need to prepare a more serious document first, so that it doesn't call for this kind of work. And the second is that the Supreme Council did exactly the right thing by tasking the committee to rework this document in a way that, well, it met its purpose. When that is the case, and none of those who made proposals to the project, and they're all included, have any comments about the content proposed by the committee, so I have reason to put this project on second reading as a whole to a vote. Who. I'm asking, and the committee correctly suggests that they didn't design it, and this was inherited, and they were just working on this document. So it turns out that they did a good job, they did a good job, and that's why I'm putting this document to the vote. Voting, please. [[17:02:04]] For 329 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Economic Societies is under consideration. The co-worker will also report to Mr. Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich, please. Head of the Economic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u52	Bill 1129 was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 19 October. Unfortunately, it had been vetoed by the President of Ukraine and had been reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in November. On 16 December, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decree to refer the bill to the Committee on Economic Policy. In finalizing the Committee on Economic Policy, two proposals were received, one from the Chief Expert Office, the second from the People's Deputy Matvienkov. Both proposals relate to the same issue and are identical. They conclude in the following that it is proposed to amend the bill and leave the quorum for the first meeting both in shareholders and in limited societies of the same amount, i.e. 60 per cent. If the first meeting did not take place due to the lack of quorum, then the quorum should be reduced to 50 per cent. The Committee considered and adopted such a proposal on 20 December. Furthermore, the bill is submitted to you in a revised form and the Committee recommends that it be adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u53	Are you done? Thank you for the report. I want to refer to the deputies, you remember all the discussions about this bill. And in my opinion, we found a perfectly optimal formula for everyone. That is, we keep valid legislation regarding shareholders and companies with limited responsibility for resolving their issues by means of stockholder congregations. But if in some way, and you understand how this method is used today, if meetings or shareholders are blocked, then you can bring down the quorum to 50 percent of the participants in order to solve the issue in fact. I think it's a perfectly correct and correct formula, because one proposal was, the law is short, I'm putting the whole law to the vote. Please. There's a vote coming. [[17:05:18]] For 237 Decision taken. Motive? I know you're wondering why we're looking at this project like that. This is exactly what the Rules provide, when the issues are dealt with, then the second reading procedure, but there is no discussion, questions, answers, and other things. Please read the Rules. The Draft Decision on Information to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on the State of Housing and Other Guarantees for the Social Protection of Military Workers, Persons of the Primary and Private Composition of Internal Affairs and Some Other Persons is under consideration. [[pre-processed document]] Moisik Volodymyr Romanovich will report. Ah, Sinchenko will report, Sergey Grigorovitch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u54	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! On 12 December 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on information to the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of parliamentary hearing recommendations “On the state of housing and other guarantees of social protection for military personnel, persons in charge and the composition of internal affairs bodies and some others”. The Committee on Law Enforcement and National Security and Defence was tasked with developing it and bringing it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for adoption as a whole. During this time, the committees worked intensely with representatives of interested government agencies and NGOs. The working group was made up of deputy ministers of profile, heads of their financial and economic departments and construction units. The result was a revised draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been put forward for your consideration today and which I am asking for your support. It should be noted that the work was quite intense. The question is painful. Tens of thousands of officers, flagmen, officials, and others await his solution. Regrettably, Ukraine’s Cabinet of Ministers budgeted for the following year, and the Supreme Council approved the transfer of housing to Minbud. The idea, in principle, is strategically true. The Minister of Defense, for example, has repeatedly expressed himself in favour of depriving the Armed Forces of their inequitable functions. The same is true of other law enforcement agencies. But today, there are powerful departments of capital construction in the Ministry of Emergency Situations and other law enforcement agencies. They have a branched system of regional departments. There are people who understand the specifics of taking away land, resources, and other matters. Hundreds of construction sites have been expanded. At the same time, according to Minbud, to become a full - time contractor in the construction of housing for military personnel, to adopt an unfinished construction and to carry out the full range of work with all the rights and responsibilities required for the full functioning of the service, at least three thousand employees are additionally employed. Clearly, this is impossible. But to ensure State strict control over the construction, and especially at the price at which the Defence and other authorities pay for square meters of housing, and here are the problems that are essential, and this is the issue that is being addressed with some changes to the formulation of the decision. As I have been assured personally by Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Construction of the Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich, the government's efforts at this time have been resolved and so far, in the current order of financing the construction of housing for military personnel has been maintained even without change to the State Budget. A new decree of the Cabinet of Ministers is being prepared as part of the allocation of the funds. Taking into account the social resonance of the issue under consideration, and at the same time the low relevance of this issue to the implementation of the recommendations, we have written down the regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u55	Allow me to complete the thought and complete the information. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u56	We've been working on the bill, and we've foreseen our control function in October to listen to the Cabinet of Ministers on the execution of this decree. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u57	You remember that we discussed the matter in detail. The information was the Cabinet of Ministers, then the decision was made to finalize the document, it is now finalized and, in my opinion, takes into account all the needs that today relate to the State's obligations to people in pursuit. So you can put this document to the vote as a whole, right? I put to the vote the Supreme Council's ruling, which has just been reported by Sergey Grigorovich, number 2713. Please, there's a vote. [[17:10:49]] For 393 Decision taken. The same sequence discusses the draft regulation on parliamentary hearing recommendations on “The State of preparations for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization, problems and prospects”. It's also a work in progress. Vladimir Mihajlovich Zaplański will be on the rostrum, please, and will make a statement on this point, referring to the fact that the Supreme Council has already passed its part of the road in this regard. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u58	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! On Wednesday, November 1, 2006, a parliamentary hearing took place following the initiative of the Committee on Economic Policy in the Supreme Council of Ukraine: “A state of preparation for Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization, problems and prospects. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee prepared and submitted for your consideration a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the recommendation of parliamentary hearings on the subject: “The State of preparation of Ukraine for the World Trade Organization. Problems and prospects” adopted on 13 December 2006 in the first reading as a basis. In preparing the draft decree for the second reading, the comparative table was given to all the proposals that came from the legislators. Thus, with the aim of completing Ukraine's entry into the WTO and obtaining full membership to ensure effective participation in the formation of legal principles for the functioning of a multilateral trading system and for public information, the recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have been finalized. The decree provides for the setting of specific lines for information by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of recommendations. By January 9, 2007, and I propose that the deadline be changed to January 15, to take action to address the issues that hinder the conclusion of the negotiations on Ukraine’s entry into the WTO and the status of the final draft of the working group’s report on Ukraine’s application for entry into the WTO by February 1, this year, on the status of implementation of recommendations based on the conclusions of parliamentary hearings. At a committee meeting, it was decided to recommend that the Supreme Council approve the recommendations and monitor the implementation of the relevant decision on the Economic Policy Committee. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u59	Ladies and gentlemen, this project has also been carried out by the Supreme Council, and the content of this project consists mainly in certain tasks and preparation of information for the Supreme Council of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So there's no problem, too, because the comments here are all taken into account. That's why I'm putting this document to a vote, and that's what I'm doing. Please determine by voting. [[17:14:27]] For 311 Decision taken. Now I have a proposition for you. We are planning two draft parliamentary hearing recommendations today: on gender-based violence and the second on rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine. You remember the contents of these hearings and the contents of these documents. The Cabinet of Ministers is asking for further work on these documents, because they are currently entering into the area of relations that we do not yet have in these documents, as far as international law is concerned. And our Legal Office is also asking us to move it, to work on more. So I'd like to ask your support on the proposal to move these two issues back to the next session. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. [[17:15:40.]] For 243 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, several documents are proposed to be considered under reduced procedure. They're really small. It looks like it doesn't look like it, but I know that the prepared ones are actually qualified. And that's why there's really a way to look at them in a simplified way. It's about the Act of Amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, to one of the articles, to Article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code, well, etc. They're on your hands. I ask you to support the proposal of the Conciliation Board to consider these issues in a simplified manner. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:16:44]] For 319 This offer is accepted. So I'm looking at a draft law to amend article 81 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. The first deputy will report to Attorney General Sergey Markianovich. Please come to the rostrum. Two minutes to report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u60	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. The Ukrainian Public Prosecutor's Office, in carrying out its functions, is directing its activities towards the protection of human and civil rights and freedoms and public interests. However, the effective performance of the tasks before the prosecutor’s office is sometimes hindered by the legislative imbalance of individual issues. Once the new Civil Procedure Code has become effective, anyone who applies to the court for the protection of a violated right must pay the information and technical costs for the civil case, otherwise his application will not be accepted by the court. At the same time, part 4 of article 81 of the Civil Procedure Code provides for the release of applicants in 200 categories of cases from the above-mentioned costs. However, the procurator’s office does not recognize the number of persons exempt from payment, which gives rise to the court’s refusal to accept the application. At the same time, the Public Prosecutor's Office is an institution that is fully funded by the State Budget and is not included in the fees paid by the Public Prosecutor's Office. The provisions of article 81 of the Civil Procedure Code of Cases in which the costs of information and technology are not subject to payment refer to categories in which the Public Prosecutor's Office participates. First of all, reinstatement at work, wage collection, compensation for workers in the home, compensation for delaying their payments, compensation for disability, other health problems, or the death of a physical person, and so on. Thus, if article 81 of the Civil Procedure Code is left in force, the Public Prosecutor's Office will be obliged to pay the costs of information security when brought to court for the benefit of citizens who are exempt by law from payment of expenses. Public prosecutors represent only the interests of socially disadvantaged groups of the population, pensioners, minors, and disabled persons in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u61	Thank you, sit down. I'm answering some of the MPs' questions. Sergey Markianovich, not the subject of the legislative initiative, not the prosecutor’s office. But he's doing the President's job, because he's the subject of the legislative initiative, and in this case, he's the president, but he's given it. That's right, so please sit down, head of the profile committee. Justice Committee member Zabarsky Vladislav Valeriyovich, reports, reports the report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u62	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! The Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Justice discussed a bill submitted by the President of Ukraine amending article 81 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. The bill proposes to supplement article 81 of the Civil Procedure Code with part five of the content that does not pay the costs of information and technical security in the cases mentioned, the representation of the citizen or the state in the court is carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office. It should be noted that the representation of citizens' or state's interests before a court in cases defined by law is one of the main constitutional functions of the public prosecutor's offices and that the proposed changes are intended to be released at the legislative level of the public prosecutor's office from the payment of such expenses. It should also be noted that the Public Prosecutor's Office is an institution that is fully financed by the State Budget and is not budgeted. And making the changes will remove unnecessary obstacles to the prosecution's representation of the citizen's interests, or the state in court. Thus, the Committee on Justice at its meeting decided, on the basis of part two of article 109 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the prescribed draft law on the basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u63	Please have a seat. Thank you for the information. I hope all the deputies have read the contents of this law, the addition to the law. I'm once again for those who listen to us, maybe. “The costs of information and technical security are not subject to payment in cases in which the authorities of the Public Prosecutor’s Office in cases determined by law. All of it. Are they willing to say “yes” or “against”? Sign up. Two “for” are recorded first. More faithfully "for" and "against" will be 4 men. Yes, please. One Lazka. I think it's fair, please. He has the right to express his opinion, please. It's easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u64	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Actually, I don't think there's anything funny about this, because it's about protecting citizens' interests. But I will support and vote in favour of this bill. But it's a shame that the author of the bill hasn't gone any further, because here it's proposed to relieve the costs of information and technical support of the court only to the authorities of the prosecutor's office. My conviction is that such a fee for information and technology services should be cancelled. This is an obstacle to citizens’ access to justice. Citizens pay government taxes and they pay for information and technology services. Some private office seems to provide services, and you try to get a copy of the court's decision or approval of any one of them who paid for it. Maybe in business, it's worth leaving this fee, but in civil matters, in order for people to be able to get to court without being deprived of this opportunity because there's no money to pay for information technology, I think it's worth getting rid of. Because government duties go to the budget, the budget is kept by the court system, including the provision of costs for information and technical services to the court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u65	I think it's a good suggestion, and since there are amendments to the Code of Masters now, it's the President's proposal, and now he's heard your speech and he's going to bring it to the Civil Service, of course. But for now, let's vote on that. I'm putting to the vote a draft law that you have proposed for consideration. [[17:25:07]] For 392 As we passed the law, I remind you again. Draft Act amending article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Sergey Winokur, Deputy Attorney General, also reports. Please. Two minutes, please. This is also a project introduced by the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u66	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies, with Ukraine's independence and at the beginning of the formation of the legal base of our nation, there was a debate in society about the reform of the criminal investigation system, which was particularly intensified after the adoption of the new Constitution in 1996. Their views on this subject were repeatedly expressed by legal leaders, politicians, scientists, and other experts. Regrettably, these statements were mostly informative and generally did not embody themselves in practice. In view of this, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, by intensifying its participation in the legislative process, decided on the application of specific measures aimed at improving the system to the organs of pretrial investigation and prepared a draft Act amending article 112. This bill was sent to the President, who on September 25th brought Parliament into the process of legislative initiative. Given the short deadline for the report. What is the whole point of this bill? According to the Constitution, there is no investigation in the prosecutor's office, there should be no investigation. And we've been talking about this for 10 years. And in the Council of Europe, and we have warnings, we tell them about it, but the situation remains the way it is today. So this is the first step. Either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, the prosecution's investigation will leave in a month. We're talking about that the investigation is not going to be sectoral and it's where it's built up by operational capabilities. The murders and other crimes we're talking about are usually revealed by internal affairs officials who have opportunities, criminal investigations and so on. Therefore, the transfer of these investigative functions to the police, which investigates matters of the same category, will not harm or harm, but will only benefit. By the way, it's just one-and-a-half percent of the stuff that the police are investigating today at all. We have four thousand cases like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u67	Thank you. You have just as well reported that you broke out of the text and in your own words spoke about the essence of the law. Thank you. Have a seat. Portnov Andry Volodymyrovich reports, deputy head of the Justice Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u68	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice has considered the Act on Amendments to Article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, which aims to remove cases of certain crimes against life, health and the will, honour, dignity and sexual integrity of a person and to refer them to the criminal investigation of internal affairs. The Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine notes that the adoption of this law will contribute to improving the system of pretrial investigation in Ukraine, reforming the entire legal system, optimizing the investigation of crimes, and then improving the effectiveness of the fight against crime. For us, this optimism is quite controversial. At the same time, I'm going to report on the ideas that are in society and in scientific institutions. First of all, I would like to say that the Committee on Law Enforcement, unfortunately, did not support this bill. All other parliamentary committees supported the bill. It should also be noted that both the National Law Academy of Ukraine, Jaroslav Wise, the National University of Internal Affairs, and the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine generally support this bill and propose it for adoption. The Supreme Court of Ukraine also supports this bill as part of the reform of the system of pretrial investigation. In support of the current concept of the bill as a whole, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the inclusion of the bill in the agenda and the results of the first reading to accept it as a basis. In the absence of proposals and amendments to the legislative initiative in its consideration, the committee considers it possible to adopt the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u69	Are there speakers here? Sign up for who's up for what's up for who's up for who's up for what's up for who's up Please sit Sergey Volodymyrovich. Please, Widow. He passes the word Stretovich. Please, Stretovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u70	Vladimir Stretović, "Our Ukraine", Party of the Christian-Democratic Union. Of course, it is a fair effort by the Attorney-General to remove the inequitable functions of the previous investigation, as provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine, which is required by the Council of Europe. But our committee, in considering this issue, unanimously decided not to recommend it to the Supreme Council on the grounds that the compositions of crimes that are currently identified among those that are proposed for prior investigation to be entrusted to the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs are the most complex in the Criminal Code. Taking into account the fact that today, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs system, for example, there are no proper experts in the investigation of homicides, including contract killings organized by organized criminal groups, banditism, in fact, the transfer of such categories of cases to the Ministry of Internal Affairs will virtually stop the investigation and investigation process. In this regard, we do not accept the proposal to accept it as a whole. Let's take it as the Rules require, let's take a closer look, let's consult again, and then finally define what categories of cases provided for in the Criminal Code, we remove them from the prosecution's jurisdiction in the order of Article 112 of the Criminal Procedure Code and refer them to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u71	Shevchuk Sergey Volodymyrovich instead of Lašek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u72	Thank you. Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I personally have a lot of questions about whether there would be about 10 articles of the Criminal Code relating to the activities of medical institutions and medical professionals to give to the experts of the Ministry of Internal Affairs? It is the improper exercise of the duties of a medical worker, the violation of patients ’ rights, the use of violent donations, the illegal disclosure of medical secrets, and many other articles relating to the practical activities of thousands and thousands of health professionals. For example, I have great doubts that there are experts in this direction in the investigational organs of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I believe that such articles of the Criminal Code need a special approach. And those involved in the investigation should have a certain amount of knowledge. And I have doubts that such knowledge and expertise are in the Ministry of Internal Affairs today. I mean, without essentially rejecting this idea, I would still like to take down a whole series of articles of the Criminal Code, which the authors propose to pass on to the Ministry of Internal Affairs for investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u73	Thank you, Sergey Volodymyrovich. There are no more willing ones to express themselves. I would like to draw attention to some of the details that arose during the discussion. Vladimir Mikolaiovich is absolutely right about the need to finalize the document, taking into account the different circumstances, including the date of the introduction. It says, "The first of January." It is clear that this cannot be done. And when we consider it in the second reading, we can then clearly determine when it might be. Because there's no way that some of the experts from the prosecution's offices could be handed over to the police because it's about expanding functions, and maybe it won't be necessary, I don't know. Regarding what Sergey Volodymyrovich is proposing, it violates the principle that either we focus our judicial investigation on those organs, whether it's B.B., or whether it's the police that broke the case, or whether we leave them in the prosecutor's office. And there's obviously no narrow profile of professionals in the public prosecutor's office who will make decisions, and there's no conclusion as to the qualifications of health professionals in certain specific cases. Both the police and the D.A. will be involved in the legal profession, of course. That's why I think this thesis can be based on the drafters of the bill, especially the President. But in my opinion. The proposal for consideration in the first reading is correct. That's why I'm putting the motion to a vote: the adoption of this draft law in the first reading. Please. [[17:35:36.]] For 397 Decision taken. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the activities of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information. As reported by Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u74	Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. This draft law is aimed at solving the four problems that arise after the validity of the basic law on the State Service for Special Communications and Protection of Information. First of all, it's bringing other laws into terminological compliance with this law. Second, the social protection of those who will serve in the special liaison service. The third relates to the extension of the relevant laws that were previously distributed to the Security Service from which the service was to be removed. And fourthly, it is about making changes to certain laws in connection with the creation of a separate ministry. With regard to the first terminological direction, this is about the laws of Ukraine on the “National System of Confidential Communications”, “About the electronic digital signature”, “On the protection of information in the information and telecommunications systems”, “On the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense”, these are the laws that require changes in part of terminology. In order to determine the terms and conditions of the pension scheme for the members of the Military and Chief Staff of the State Special Liaison and Information Protection Service of Ukraine, it is also proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on the Pension Insurance of Persons Released from Military Service and Some Other Persons. In connection with the activities of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information, as defined by the Basic Law, other units that were previously in the Security Service are proposed to extend the operation of Ukrainian laws, such as the rental of state and municipal property to which it will be determined that the rental of movable and immovable property secured by the authorities, departments, institutions and institutions of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information will be governed by this Law, taking into account the specificities provided for in the Ukrainian Law on Economic Activities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u76	This is also true of several other laws in Ukraine. It is also meant that the adoption of a draft law amending certain legislative acts regarding the activity of the service, the special communication and the protection of information will allow for the order of many standards that are present in other laws. And in addition, we have to make changes to the General Security Service Act, taking into account the decline in the number of Ukraine's Security Service, due to the exclusion of a single service. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u77	Right. Have a seat, please. Trelyakov Alexander Yuriovich, head of the committee of profile, has the floor. Are you going to report? So the committee has decided, please, Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u78	People's MP Gnatenko. The Defence and Security Committee held a visiting meeting in the service. The Committee considered all matters relating to the activities of the service and matters relating to the organization of the service as a new organizational structure. The Committee therefore unanimously supported the decision to support the bill and invited it to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u79	Please sign up for this project. Okay. Please express your wish: Easy and Bondarczuk. Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u80	Your Honor, I'll take your permission to speak in the rostrum, because when I still have to stand among such beautiful trees. By the way, I encourage the citizens of Ukraine, who cut trees in New Year's Eve, to note that there is an artificial, that is, not cut down. I urge people not to cut the trees. And now essentially the bill. The reporter claims that he has a technical character. Yeah, on one side. On the other hand, the project proposes to extend the Act on State Protection of Court Workers and Law Enforcement Authorities to State Service staff for special communications and information protection. But the reasonableness and merit of such a decision raises doubts, since the state of service is not a law enforcement or judicial body. Under such circumstances, the only reason for extending the law to its employees is the participation of its employees in administrative offences. In addition, state authorities are designated among bodies whose officials have the right to file administrative records. But according to article 255 of the Code of Administrative Violations, there are 47 government authorities whose employees are granted such a right. However, the Act on the State Protection of Court Workers and Law Enforcement Authorities does not generally extend to the employees of these 47 bodies. Therefore, there is no reason to extend the Act of Protection to these workers, since it is an additional cost of the budget, such as benefits, pensions, additional benefits of municipal payments, and so on, public transportation. We've got these slugs, even though I've been scratching my pants, instead of paying people normal wages, we're giving them pennies to make up for some benefits that aren't funded in the budget. So I don't think this bill should be supported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u81	Okay. And Bondarczuk, what will he say, Ivan Mikolaiovich. I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u82	Dear colleagues, I think we should be guided by the conclusions, first of all, by the experts, so I propose to support Lviv Mikolaiovich, who, as the head of the subcommittee, has reported. And the committee unanimously decided to support this bill, because there's nothing here, there's no benefits here, there's no pensions, and so on. It is about providing certain, as it were, opportunities for special liaison workers to perform their functions and to be more secure. So there's no extra budget expenditure, and there's no other benefits, and there's no other benefits. So it is the first reading, and we need to support the conclusion of the Supreme Council Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u83	Thank you. I'm focusing on this particular feature, the profile committee is offering to support, and the government is also proposing to support the project, but on the first reading. To find out later all the nuances that today call into question the MPs. I'm betting on the vote on this first-reading project. [[17:44:33]] For 280 Decision taken. The question is being considered. The Amnesty Law. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u84	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, draft Amnesty Law, submitted to the Supreme Council by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, according to article 92 of the Constitution of Ukraine. And a step that testifies to an act of implementation of the principle of humanism by the State in relation to those who are being punished. The bill provides for amnesty to be announced and extended, especially in those categories of convicted persons who are most vulnerable in the social sphere: underage women and men who have young children, children with disabilities or parents who are disabled in the first group and who need foreign care, pregnant women, elderly persons, war veterans, disabled persons, etc. The basic criteria for applying amnesty under the bill are the slight social danger of actions committed by a person serving a sentence, the objective factors to which a serious illness can be attributed, the elderly, which significantly reduces the danger of persons offered to be released from punishment. A considerable period of time for the condemned. The punishment at the time of amnesty is supposed to be at least half of the prescribed term of primary punishment. In line with these criteria, the possibilities and applications of amnesty have been extended in comparison with the same laws of the past years. This is primarily the case with crimes of so - called economic orientation. In the event of the adoption of a project submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, amnesty has been applied, according to its position in places of deprivation and restriction of will, it is envisaged that 6,000 persons will be released and that five thousand convicted persons will be released. At that. The bill submitted in comparison with the laws promulgating amnesty in recent years is the duty of a comprehensive and objective review of the case by the court and the establishment of the criminal offence in the order provided for in the Criminal Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u85	Allow me to finish my opinion, and you may want to express your opinion more quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u86	In the court’s decision to apply or not to apply amnesty to a person whose criminal case or criminal material is involved in the commission of knowledge and judicial investigation. These are the major novels that this bill provides for. Please support him as an act of humanism on the part of the State.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u87	Thank you. Please have a seat. He'll report. The report is done by Andrew Schlell. Rather, he reports his bill in the same way. Andrew Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u88	Thank you. The school of Andrey, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. And actually, I'm going to report my bill, and I'd like to emphasize it. You know, everything always happens in a very similar way. The government, as always, was unable to draft an amnesty bill and made it clear exactly one month before my bill. All I have to remember is that I, as much as today’s minister of education, am a professional national deputy and I know how to do it. God is with him, I think, for those who are condemned, it doesn't matter who is the author of the bill. I agree, it is suggested, especially with such a prime minister, but this is already said on this side. But that's not what I'm saying. I would like to point out what was said here about the nouvelles - mandatory court hearing. This has always been considered and studied comprehensively and has been done with great care. But the main point here is that in order for this Amnesty Law to take effect, the Amnesty Law must be voted in the session room, and it has not yet been voted on. So all the novices here in this situation won't work because we don't have a new basic law that uses amnesty to apply. About my bill. I want to point out that it's where we say that there's a greater probability of amnesty, because when it comes to six thousand, there's no need to be afraid, there's going to be a release of about one and a half thousand people, that's practice, and that's enough. And what happens in this way? According to my bill, it's this number that's a little bit larger, and it's caused by the standardized articles of the Criminal Code with those who amnesty, because we don't have a serious crime anymore, the average gravity, it's all perfectly familiar with the minister of justice, he just did a brief report. That's why I'm here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u89	Please, the committee's report is done by Moses, I have it written like this, right? Moisik Volodymir Romanovich. And the committee head himself will report. Please, Stretovich Volodymir Mikolajovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u90	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The primary method of combating crime today remains the use of criminal punishment. But both the theory and the practice justifies the effectiveness of dissuasive methods of impact on this social phenomenon, and this applies primarily to an institution like amnesty. For more than a year now, the country has been living, as they say, without amnesty. As a result, we have overburdened criminal institutions, further involvement in the criminal world of persons who could be successfully rehabilitated today. At the moment, we have two bills on amnesty: the government and the people's deputies School and Kelestin. Both were discussed at a meeting of our committee, and despite conceptual identity, they came to different conclusions. The bill, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, distinguishes the definition of crimes to be committed under amnesty, by category. This is a very general approach, which is difficult to apply, considering the non-systemic nature of the articles of the Criminal Code as a basic legal act. Such a course will lead us to ignore fully the principles of individual responsibility and the justice of criminal law. According to an article in the first project, a person who has committed a serious reckless crime or a deliberate crime of moderate gravity may not actually be punished at all. Serious comments have led to the draft rule on the possibility of amnesty for persons at the stage of pretrial investigation, as provided for in article six of the above - mentioned draft. Moreover, the criteria behind amnesty are not defined, such as flawless conduct during punishment. There are other, by the way, quite numerous remarks. Another project, its registration -- 2377-1, submitted by the people's deputies -- is more perfect. First: The title of the bill is more relevant to its substance. The situation of the first draft article on the exemption from basic punishments and the absence of amnesty on parents deprived of their parental rights is correct. Article seven lists specific crimes for which the penalty is reduced to a third, and so on. I can't say that the bill submitted by the people's deputies is irreprehensible. Many of the comments made to the government, including the major ones, also refer to the project of the National Deputies of School and Calestin. So both projects need improvement. As far as necessity is concerned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u91	Finish your thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u92	If one of them is to be accepted as the basis for the function and task of the session itself, with further development, the committee is of the view that a bill of national deputies, registered 2377-1, and a better position of government, must be taken into account when working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u93	If you would like to share in the discussion, sign up for and against it. Andrew Volodymyrovich School, please. But you will insist, of course, on your project. Give someone a word to speak for you. Let's have a widow. Widow's asking for a competing faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u94	Out of the way, Alexander Alexander. Thank you, Andrew, for giving me your word, I'll thank you one day. Our faction supports the bill proposed by the people's deputies, School and Kelestin, and we agree with the position just expressed by the chairman of the committee of the relevant, professional committee. In particular, I would like to point out that, with respect for the company, the honourable colleagues, we have, unfortunately, inherited from the totalitarian system a completely inhumane approach to our present judicial branch of power. Today, in places that we call executive bodies and so forth, there are people who, on condition, are convicted of being colossal. Today we have to change our attitude, we have a person in the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Justice or the court, and we have to judge him, not justify him. That's what the problem is. The prisons are overcrowded, so today we need to work on the very concept of how to deal with, firstly, speeding up the reform of the judiciary. Moreover, we have highly qualified professionals from this system. It's different. We need to change our human punishment philosophy, and today we have kids chasing for a dozen he threatened there that I'd rip you off, that you wouldn't give me the bracelet, then the whole system put that kid in there to convict or punish somehow. So we need to think about this today, and the bill proposed by Schlem and Kelestin is included.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u95	Thank you. There was no longer a desire to discuss this matter with the MP, I'm not saying, but unfortunately, I'm saying it's a fact. Because there is a reference to both bills, and it should be borne in mind that today many and thousands of people are condemned under accidental circumstances waiting for the adoption of the amnesty law. And here's the discussion about that, this. The Amnesty Act of the sixth year, it's already late, it's like the seventh year or the law, in general, about the founding of amnesty and so on. But anyway, one of the bills could be taken as a basis to work on it, then work on it, and then in the next session, eventually accept it. So I'm putting the voting projects in turn, just like they're registered. Bill first 2377 without 1, then 2377-1. I'll put Project 2377 to the vote as the basis for the first reading, please. [[17:56:58]] For 218. It's not supported. Then 2377-1 on the basis of the vote, please. [[17:57:20]] For 184 There's not enough votes. So I put to the vote the proposal made by the Expert Directorate and in principle, when I talk about it, I'm going to put both of these projects together for further work and I'm going to put one project into the consideration of the Supreme Council. As commission of the committee, both bills should be finalized and the Supreme Council should be considered. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[5:58:02]] For 404 The point is that there will now be no discussion of who the author, the author of the Supreme Council will be, and the committee is the contractor of this proposal. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act in Ukraine. Reported by Dimczak Ivan Mikitovich, deputy minister of agrarian politics. Two minutes, please. I'm announcing that the session will continue for 15 minutes, the plenary meeting, and sooner or later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u96	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. The implementation of the declaration of grain on storage is one of the mechanisms of the state regulation of the grain market, provided for in article 10 of the Ukrainian grain and grain law. However, the inadequacy of existing legislation in part of the requirements for the recognition of conservation and grains is halting the declaration of the availability of grains and impeding effective government regulation of the grain market, resulting in a decline in the country’s food security. In order to improve the specific provisions of the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act, the Ministry of Agrarian Policy has developed and is introducing to the Supreme Council a bill amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act. The main purpose of this law is to obtain real information about the available quantities of grain and its storage location by means of the declaration process of the maximum number of grain market entities they keep. In connection with this bill of the Ukrainian grain and grain market amendments, the composition of grain storage entities is clarified by including agricultural enterprises, farm farms, in its list. [[Articles 7, 10, 19, 20 of Ukraine’s Grain and Market Act]] In this area of legal regulation, the Ukrainian Laws on Grain and Grain Market and the Cabinet of Ministers Act No. 1877 of 12 December 2002 are in force. It should be noted that the introduction of the bill does not require additional funding from the State Budget. The adoption of this law will make it possible to significantly improve the declaration process of grain by its subjects, to obtain complete and reliable information about the available quantities of grain in crop cuts stored in Ukraine with a expressed conservation mission and other information on Ukraine’s grain resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u97	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bondarenko Viktor Viktorovich, head of the subcommittee on agrarian politics, has the floor of the committee on this subject. Is Mikhail Vasilovich there? Who is the committee on this subject? Please, Sergey Mikolaiovich Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u98	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The grain and grain market law in Ukraine is one of the active, productive and even effective. It's working. And today we're only looking at the part where we're talking about declarations of grain volumes for storage. Why? This law needs to be brought into line with modern requirements and needs. Since the law has been in force and functioning, only those with the greatest quantities have been declared and up to 500 tons have been declared. But during this period, the number of retailers has increased, and the concentration of grain production is also happening. And there are large-scale manufacturers and small-scale retailers. But both those and others, and the averages, should declare their quantities of grain in order for the state to know how many grains it has in its sockets and must have formed pricing and managed the grain market process so that there is no price gap, pricing, and so on. Thus today, this law and the producers have calmed down and realized that the implementation of the declaration is not a removal of grain, it is not an intervention of the State into the grain market, it is just a civilised way for every reporting date, not once a year, to have a report in the state, how much of that grain is and how it can help the farmer and the producer to manage it in a modern way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u99	Thank you, sit down, please. Are they willing to comment on this? If desired, sign up. I realized that there were no wanters. Let's see. No one wants to, it's the owner or the statistics on data sorting. So I have the right to put this question to the vote in the first reading, as a basis. Please. [[18:03:47]] For 327 There is a whole offer to accept it. Is there no objection? If there is no objection, I put to the vote in general this to adopt the law as a final law. There's a vote coming. [[18:04:13]] For 340. Decision taken. Thank you. Act amending article 108 of the Customs Code. Report to the Head of the State Customs Service, Mr. Alexander Borisovich, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u100	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! With your permission, I'm very brief in essence. Ukraine has joined the International Convention for the Simplification of Customs Procedures. This law removes another bureaucratic procedure. We transfer the right to decide on the extension of the period of retention of humanitarian assistance directly to the customs office in which the customs warehouses are located. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u101	Please take your seats. Dmitry Volodymyrovich is the deputy head of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Please go, report to the committee, position of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u102	Dear colleagues, the bill has been considered in the Committee, the Committee has considered it and invites the bill to be adopted on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u103	In fact, it's about bringing the document into line with international legal instruments. It refers to literally two sentences, and I would then like to accept it finally as a document. I'm betting on voting this proposal so we can save time because the question is clear. There's a vote coming. [[18:06:10]] For 377 Decision taken. 377 votes. Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Masters. [[on the granting of prior consent by the Ukrainian State Property Fund to alienate state property]] Reports by Boki Ivan Sidorovich. Two minutes. Then there's Valentine's Day. It's 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u104	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The purpose of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Economic Code, which we have introduced with Anatoly Alexandrovich Bugajić, is to implement the State's right to state ownership in the public sector through the system of measures and powers and to organize processes of alienating and directing State property from the State as a owner of these processes of public privatization bodies. [[concerning the prior consent of the State Property Fund to the alienation of State property]] To achieve this goal, it is essential to establish a single approach to the adoption of decisions by the appropriate authorities and public authorities to grant consent to the alienation of assets. This will help to avoid the economic and financial losses of the state in the process of alienating state property. The bill, amendments and additions to articles 75, 77, and 141 make it mandatory to grant prior consent by the Fund of State Property, its regional offices to operators, institutions, institutions for the alienation of state property, which is part of the core funds, and the establishment by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the order for the alienation of the state property. The application of the draft law will ensure the order of the alienation processes, allowing the State to avoid economic and financial losses while alienating state property outside the privatization process. Considering that Bill 2417 of the proposed government takes into account all of our proposals with Anatoly Alexandrovich Bugajaj, we ask you, honourable colleagues, to support the government bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u105	Right. In fact, the subject of the legislative initiative from his project, taking into account its content, which is being invoked by the government, is refusing to benefit from the government’s project. Valentina Petrovna Seminouk, please, the position of the Fund and the government on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u106	Dear colleagues, your point is to amend the Code of Masters concerning the alienation of state property, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, 2417. And in processing this proposal, the Cabinet of Ministers has taken into account the proposals made by the Bulgarian and Boko deputies and has introduced our bill, which actually gives the State Property Fund today the right to consent to the alienation of property that is undergoing bankruptcy and privatization. Given that the State Property Fund has made a complete inventory today, we have a complete picture of a sector-territorial principle, and this will give us an opportunity to talk about the state-owned property fund here in Parliament about the state-of-the-art property situation that is in the country today. That legal colossion, which is now in the Code of the Master, that is, without the consent of the State Property Fund, is actually saying that the State Property Fund only sells property on competitive grounds for only 43 percent, which is why we don't get significant amounts of money in the budget. In a privatisation plan today, 10 billion says that all objects should be sold on competitive grounds, involving the State Property Fund. This bill is a compromise in order to avoid those bypass privatization processes through restructuring, through alienation, and allows today to actually fill the budget and carry out the budget for 2007 with the budget you approved for 2007. This actually gives the State Property Fund additional responsibility for those state property processes, and the responsibility not only to fix property, but, above all, to alienate and realize and to fill state property. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u107	Thank you. From the committee is the deputy head of the Chechtov Committee Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u108	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The committee considered two bills: both a government bill and a bill of MPs. It should be noted that these two bills are aimed at solving one issue. They should be considered together. In our view, a more successful bill is a government bill. And the committee is proposing to the session room to support the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u109	Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to make a statement, write down either “for” or “against”. According to me, no one wants to say anything. So, well, once again, please, I announced the recording, please, I see that Bondar raises his hand. I don't know how you pressed the button. Maybe it's the wrong button, maybe it's the wrong card.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u110	Whoever's "for" needs a green one, who's "against" red. That's not the button you were pressing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u111	Let's watch it again. There's something wrong with your system. Well, I've got you fixed up. Come on, talk to me. Alexander Mikolaiovich. Oh, there is. and Lukyanczuk, Klukkowski, and Bondar are gone. They're giving the word to Bondar, please. Both take the word of Bondar. Yes. But it's still two minutes. Please, Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u112	Thank you. The Ukrainian Republican Party of the “Our Ukraine” bloc. I support the government's bill, it's more successful because there's one addition to, compared to a bill of national MPs that will sell everything on competitive grounds. Because what is now being done in state enterprises, when they own their own property, reminds us of what happens in the process of moratoriums on land when everything goes uncontrollable without State participation. So this bill needs to be supported, really, by the fund has to be involved, and the main thing is that it's going to be done on competitive grounds, on competitive terms. So I'm asking you to support this bill, it's really relevant.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-09-m1.u113	Can we generally put it as a law or as an amendment? No objections to MPs? Then I put this project to the vote as a law. I'd like to vote on it. [[18:13:48]] For 337 Decision taken. Thank you. The questions raised are exhausted. The sitting shall be declared open. closed, I'm sorry. Tomorrow I ask you to be all of them.
