ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited and guests of the Supreme Council, members of the media! I'm sorry I'm late. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:06:39]] There are 249 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Today we have the birthday of the national deputy, Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich. Let's welcome him. [[Applause]] Yes, the list of issues that we have to consider with you today, you have, we go to their consideration. Yes, the first question we have is information from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine about the situation around the ABM systems. Who's from the committee? Please, Hiccup. Oh, my God, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, at a joint meeting with the Committee on Foreign Affairs yesterday, the Committee on Defence, National Security, heard about the deployment of anti-missiles by the Deputy Ministry of Defence of Polackov and the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Wesselovski. Anti-missile defence equipment in the Czech Republic and Poland. Before that, I would like to report that General Oberick was at our committee meeting and I have been trying to explain within an hour the position of the United States of America on the issue under consideration. [[United ……]] I can report to you that in general he has reported purely technical matters, fully certifying that there is no threat of possible rocket attacks on missiles that may be launched from Iran's territory for Ukraine. Yesterday at the meeting, we considered the information carefully, and today I wish to report to the two Committees that it is premature to consider this issue of information from the Deputy Minister of Defence of the Polish Comrade on the Supreme Council. Why? Because Mr. Polekov can only report to us today the position of the Minister. The Ministry of Defence is purely technical again. Given the appointment of a new Minister for Foreign Affairs, who will be a member of the National Security Council of the President, bearing in mind that the Concept has been adopted. The national security strategy is ours. The Committee decided unanimously at its meetings on the premature consideration of the matter today at this meeting of the Supreme Council. We believe that this issue needs to be worked out in detail on the National Security Council. In addition, we have decided to consider this already agreed issue in all bodies, including the National Security Council, on our committees and then only to bring the matter to the meeting for consideration by the Supreme Council. Thank you. Please support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u3	Thank you. Now. The thing is, I remind you, fellow MPs, is that this was a meeting of the Conciliation Council. At the meeting of the Conciliation Council, it was not a matter of informing us how Ukraine felt about it, whether ready or not, and so forth. If that were the case, the committees would be absolutely right to study the matter. At a meeting of the Conciliation Council, the head of the Communist faction Simonenko, speaking, said that the media had reported that one of the heads or coworkers of the United States Department of State had stated that Ukraine was actively involved in the deployment of American AO systems in Europe. And he listed there, this co-worker of the department, 15 countries. And in the 15 countries he called Ukraine again. And here's the idea to listen to information about why Americans say that Ukraine is involved in the AO system in Europe: in the Czech Republic and in Poland. Here's what we need to hear. And if we now agree with the committee that let's postpone, check and so on, nothing to check, let the representatives of the ministries tell us why the Americans are talking about how Ukrainians are involved in the PRO system. That's the whole question. I don't think we should move it. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, well, Mr. Polekov can report now. But I repeat: he will report the purely position of the Ministry of Defence, purely technical. If you insist, Adam Ivanovich, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u5	Okay. There will be questions to the reporter or. Okay. Then sit down. I'm asking you to sign up, exchange your thoughts on the subject. So once again, my dear colleagues, the idea was that Americans were talking about Ukraine's involvement in the deployment of AO systems in Europe. After considering the matter, the committee must have considered it more widely and suggested that it be moved. So let's exchange, write down, exchange thoughts, and figure out what to do with the information. Please sign up for factions. Yes, please, Matthew Simone. Simonenko, please, microphone. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u6	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I believe that the issue that is proposed by the Communist faction is proposed and included in the agenda and proposed to be considered is of paramount importance, as it is not only the foreign policy of Ukraine, but the new geopolitical space is formed with the participation of Ukraine, from the Baltic Sea to the Black Sea. This is a very serious consequence of United States statements that their new strategic initiatives should be allowed only by military means in Iran. Thus, the European part, especially Poland and the Czech Republic, today are the targets for the deployment of the ABM systems, which is then Ukraine, new realities and new threats are emerging. Once again, on behalf of the Communist faction, I propose to hear from the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs about the substance of the ongoing negotiations or consultations, the content of the position advocated by the representatives of the official authorities of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence and Foreign Affairs, so that the people of Ukraine know what further implications such initiatives have for the people of Ukraine. Will new Afghanistan be with the sons of the Ukrainian people? Will Iran, so to speak, be a subject of speculation or a subject for energy carriers and new sources of energy for oil and gas for the West, or in this case for the United States of America? Will the Baltic Sea Arc divide between Russia and Europe with the participation of Ukraine? Will the consequences be due to the fact that the ABM system is new environmental problems. I would like to remind my distinguished colleagues of the work of nationalists in the early 1990s on the need to remove Mukachevska RLS. Do you remember that story? You remember the political implications of removing the missile complex from Ukraine and thus denying Ukraine the right to be an equal and leading State and an equal participant in the Security Council of the United Nations Organization. All these consequences have hit our country's independence and economic sovereignty very painfully. That is why we say that information must be heard today. We have made an appropriate draft regulation on Ukraine's position on the placement of elements of the United States-American ABM system, and as far as the Czech Republic and Poland and Ukraine are concerned. We insist that this issue be heard as information today and that it be decided what we are doing next. If these are the regular political tricks of the United States of America and they are not relevant to Ukraine, we will conclude the discussion. If this is a betrayal of national interests by new officials, we must decide today on our position on the ABM system. This is the future of the people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u7	Thank you. Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u8	Please pass the word to Ekaterina Samoylik, my colleague on the coalition of most anti-crisis groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u9	Yes, please, Katerina Samolik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u10	Thank you very much. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The question isn't as easy as they want to show us right now. This is about the national security of our nation. It's about the sovereignty of Ukraine, it's about the future of our country. I think it's not just me, it's all the national deputies of Ukraine who are here, and that's who's here from the anti-crisis coalition, they're all concerned that somewhere out there, across the country, fate decides whether or not to be in Ukraine. For us, we are decided, for the Ukrainian people, for the politicians, for the country of Ukraine, to make decisions. That is why I believe that information must be provided, both by the Ministry of Defence and by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Especially considering that today we have a parliamentary-presidential republic, and above all the Parliament of Ukraine has the primary right to know the real objective information on this issue. I would like to highlight one more question. Dear colleagues, note that we do not see the intrusion of the people in the Czech Republic who take a firm stand against this. We are not shown the riots and the mass protests of Poland. To show that everything is so smooth, the world is just sneezing out of Bush, and everything needs to be resolved positively. That's not supposed to happen. The people of Ukraine need to know: the world and Europe today are against having both the Czech Republic and Poland, I think, and in Ukraine is the AO system. And I'm addressing the entire population of Ukraine. With you and me protecting this land, we have to live on it, we have to leave it to our children as a flourishing, normal state. And if anyone doesn't like it, let them go abroad, their masters have been waiting for them for a long time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u11	Please, Hiccup Vitaly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u12	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Socialist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to say that yesterday two committees sat down and discussed this issue in detail. There were many points that were taken into account. And at this committee meeting, all the political factions that exist today in our Parliament were represented. We heard in detail reports from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. And when we took everything into account, what we were told there, we concluded that both of us today at the Ministry are still in a state of study in detail. Because it's not as simple as it's supposed to be today, even with American statements, because there are other problems, namely, that the same Americans with the same Russians, as long as they have negotiations on who and how they're going to participate in this system, mean that they're going to be involved in creating this system. Because it's not just about Americans, it's about Russians, it's about the fact that they've been negotiating between them since the 1990s, and that there were these negotiations in 2002, and there were several round tables on how to build up Europe's defense systems today. So this problem is common today. And so, taking into account all the pros and cons, given that we have the National Security Fundamentals Act, which was adopted in 2003, taking into account that this message of the day does not indicate what else should be, that is, the report of our Space Agency, which owns some materials, instruments about, indeed, those processes that are going through, all of them unanimously concluded that yes, this question is relevant, it is urgent, today there is Ukraine's interests, if even, to look at the law that I have always mentioned. But if both departments are in the process of study today, because there is no final decision, there are still negotiations, there are subjects to it, then we simply have to wait for this topic to be drawn up, as the European states will state their point of view, because there is probably ambiguity and even in Germany itself about this problem, then we must move on to inform and decide which regime to conduct it in. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we exchanged thoughts, and even more than we exchanged, that is, we raised the issue. Most speakers insist on listening to this question, information, and listening. Let's just say that we're probably going to listen, if there's any ministry representatives here, let them inform us, give us answers to questions, and then we'll figure it out. And then we'll figure out how to move on. I invite you to the floor of the First Deputy Minister of Defense of Polack Leonid Igorovich. Please. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and citizens of Ukraine! From the above question, I think it is appropriate to point out the following. Today, there are two systems of missile defense in the world. One system of the former Soviet Union, which was followed by the Russian Federation, is a belt of missile defence around Moscow with elements that are located, including in Ukraine. And the United States system, where the missiles are located around the California Strategic Missile Base, and radio stations, including outside the United States. Following the United States of America’s exit from the A.A. Treaty in 2001, elements of missile defence were further restricted to Alaska. And now we're talking about the next extra expansion in Central Europe. On this point, I would like to point out from the outset that the Ministry of Defense did not conduct, conduct, or plan to negotiate with the United States any possible deployment of missile defence elements. It wasn't there, and it's not there. With regard to the question itself and its relevance, I would also like to point out a few factors. First of all, it's a factor in the distribution of rocket technology in the world. A common danger factor for the region and for the entire planet. It is that today, more than 20 nations of the world possess ballistic missiles and purposefully conduct research to increase their range. In 2006, the number of launches was about a hundred. These ballistic missiles are capable of carrying nuclear, biological, and chemical weapons. According to the United States of America, recently represented here by Lieutenant General Oberyn, individual countries in Asia view ballistic missiles as an element of the threat to the United States and Europe, as well as to Japan and Australia. These countries can distribute missile technology to both other states and non-state structures. Thus, the U.S. leadership considers cooperation in the field of missile defence to be an important part of its national security and, in addition to its expanded elements in California and Alaska, considers the possibility of a limited expansion in the territory of Poland and the Czech Republic. On this point, I would also like to point out that during the 2000s and 2001s, representatives of the Russian Federation's leadership offered to the United States of America and NATO their capabilities in the missile defence project in the European region. To date, stations in Ukraine have been deployed to warn of a missile attack in Zakarpatta and the Crimean Peninsula. In 2005, these stations were transferred from the Ministry of Defense to the National Space Agency of Ukraine, which, in missile defence matters today, is the nation’s leading force. The Russian side confirmed interest in the further functioning of Ukrainian nodes in a single missile attack system. With regard to possible consequences in connection with the placement of U.S. and Czech elements in the territory of Poland and the United States. First, according to the Ministry of Defense, it is not possible for Ukraine or the Russian Federation to be deployed today. Secondly, this location also does not promise us today protection from possible launches if these triggers are a building.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u16	American experts believe that if this system is activated, the probability of falling into Ukrainian territory is minimal. But we think we need more information, we need to further study this issue with not only the Ministry of Defense, but also the National Space Agency. I therefore propose leaving the issue of determining the final position of Ukraine for consideration by the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine and the leadership of the State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u17	Yes, have you finished? Please sign in if you have any questions. Yeah, 10 minutes. Please, Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u18	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I have a question for you. You're talking about that according to the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, there is no threat of placing appropriate facilities in the Czech Republic and Poland. But the Russian Federation has another point of view. Thus, economic relations between Ukraine and Russia may not be conducive to any deterioration or improvement, depending on Ukraine’s position. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u19	Thank you for asking. I would like to point out that I said in my speech that there is no immediate threat today. I didn't say there was no threat. From a technical point of view, we really don't think there's a direct threat, but from a political point of view, if there's an escalation of the tension between the Russian Federation and the United States of America, whether it's a missile issue or another military issue, it's not going to be positive for Ukraine, it's going to be a problem, it's going to be a threat. But it's not a matter of the Ministry of Defense, it's a matter of the Security Council, that's what I was going to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u20	Please, Samofal Gennadi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u21	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Party of Regions. Dear Mr. Polakov, I've listened to you for the second time, and I'm honestly surprised. Are you a professional military or not? Here I have heard the words today, I would say so, a representative of another State, the United States of America, who presents to us, so to speak, the benefits of ABM accommodation and so on. I'd like to hear from you, and I think that's what all the MPs and Ukrainian citizens would like to hear, is a clear answer: in my opinion, what are those missiles, what are those means of tracking and detecting? What do they give to the Armed Forces? Is there a need or not, you know? Because when I speak to the American generals, and you repeat that the minimum losses will be from the remnants falling to the ground, well, if you'll excuse me, if that's five tons, it'll fall to the ground, you know, not somewhere in the air. That's why I'd like you to speak purely, professionally, in the military when you go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u22	Thank you for asking. Regarding the level of professionalism, I would like to point out that I am a reserve colonel, in Afghanistan, I have been in command of the mouth for two years, I have been working in the scientific field, I have an appropriate education of tactical, tactical and strategic level, which has been acquired in Kiev, Moscow and the United States. So I really think I have enough knowledge of both the military policy of the Russian Federation and the United States to comment on this issue. Secondly, once again, I said that the American side believes the consequences are minimal. According to the Ministry of Defence, this issue requires study, additional study, including additional material. And as for kinetics or dynamics, or trajectory, physics, other questions, that's a question, well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u23	Knyazevich Jaroslav. Leonid Igorovich, you have a minute to answer the question, then the microphone goes off. Check it out. There's no Knazevitch? I can see that. And I asked. Yes, he's handing the Mandus over, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u24	Mayday, faction of the Socialist Party. Leonide Igorevich, the Ukrainian media, made a widely public statement by Javier Solana, commenting, in a mild sense, on the ambiguity of the European community’s attitude to the idea of deploying a missile defence system in Poland and the Czech Republic. Later there was a comment by Ms. Merkel, chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who also testified to this ambiguity. The President of Ukraine declared yesterday. This question is not timely and should not be answered today. At the same time, the Ministry of Defense is a very active promoter of this idea. So this is a paradoxical situation. Before you take a decision by the political authorities of the State, you are a propagandist of a rather questionable idea, more precisely one to which no attitude is defined. Should we do so? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u25	Thank you for asking. Ambiguity in European approaches is natural. If there are nations in Europe that possess nuclear weapons, they are the potential targets of other cranes. And they certainly have the same attitude. Those nations that do not possess nuclear weapons are not potential targets and have a different attitude. I think everyone understands that. Regarding the fact that the Ministry of Defense is speaking as a promoter, I think that, well, that doesn't correspond to reality, it doesn't match the position of the Ministry of Defence. I would like to emphasize once again that the Ministry of Defence is in favour of further study of all aspects of this program, because the Ukrainian side and, in particular, not only the Ministry of Defence, but also the National Space Agency has received more information from both the US and the Russian Federation, which are currently negotiating directly on this issue. And that's why I would only like to support the President's appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u26	Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u27	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Your Honor, if there's an increase in tension, we'll do something. So what is it? We are looking forward to such an increase in tension, and especially between the United States and the Russian Federation, and at the very same time today, Ukraine is not even present, taking any part. Tell me, please, as a person who has received military education in the United States, however, what your position as Ukrainian citizens and senior citizens, I am sure, is more than certain, to think, first of all, of the interests of our people, of our state, and not of another, particularly, united United States of America, when you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u28	Thank you for asking. Both the Secretary of Defense and I are certainly thinking about the interests of all Ukrainian citizens, regardless of their party affiliation. I'm unpartisan myself, so I'm equally fond of all our citizens. At the same time, I point out that the security of the country is achieved by various means. And military mechanisms only occupy their individual niche in these means, including political, intelligence, diplomatic ones. Today, we believe that the most important means to be applied are political and diplomatic, while the other means are only after politicians and diplomats.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u29	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u30	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Leonid Igorić, please tell me from your response that the Ministry of Defence is not conducting any specific negotiations and no specific work today. Please tell me what you could comment on at that time, or explain what the American side said about Ukraine being one of the 16 States that are part of this structure? That's question number one. And question number two: are you not negotiating, are you currently undertaking theoretical developments, calculations, analysis of this situation and analysis of the mechanisms that might arise as a result of this situation? At the same time, I would like to know very much what you are basing on: the world’s folly? Are you laying the foundation for the security or assurance of some particular bloc or the foundation of our State? Please tell me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich, let me answer, one minute is clearly not enough, a very big question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u32	Well, I'll give you an answer, then we'll see. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u33	So once again, the Ministry of Defense has failed, is not leading, or is planning to engage in any negotiations on the United States system's deployment. Another thing is that Ukraine has powerful missile capabilities and technologies. And in the framework of the well-known S.L.A. project, together with the Russian Federation, the United States of America and Norway, launches missiles. Together with the Russian Federation, it serves the grouping of Russian strategic missiles and launches space launches. Of course, countries that have rocket technology also have missile technology. But it's not the Ministry of Defense. As far as the Ministry of Defense is concerned. Of course, we conduct theoretical calculations. That's why I said that at this point, in order to put all the dots above the "and" we're telling the Americans, and we're going to tell you that we need more data from that briefing that was made, that's not enough. As far as safety is concerned. This is, of course, primarily the security of the state of Ukraine, which we are looking at, including in the regional and global contexts, because this is the reality of the present. Ukraine cannot isolate itself. Even the airspace protected by the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defense has limits. And what's happening right beyond these borders and beyond these limits is no longer the territory of Ukraine, but it's regional security, world security, and we have to take that into account. I hope that's understandable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u34	Thank you, sit down, please. The word is given to Undersecretary of Foreign Affairs Andrew Ivanovich Wesselowski. Please. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u35	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Considering that you have just heard the specific and thorough answers of the first Deputy Secretary of Defense. I would like to focus mainly on the political aspects of the situation that surrounds the expansion of the AO system in Europe. First of all, Ukraine as an active participant in the international community, a country that is interested in stability and security, also supports all the actions that are in a position to respond effectively to these security challenges. Ukraine is actively engaged in international efforts to combat all forms of terrorism. Recognizing the danger of the potential use by international terrorists of rocket complexes of different classes, Ukraine advocates the creation of an effective potential for international cooperation to counter such a threat. The technical aspects of how safe or dangerous the components of the U.S. AO system for Ukraine are not within our jurisdiction. Our task is to give an external political assessment of this issue. He would suggest that the following factors be taken into consideration in the session room. First of all, we know that the U.S. has made an official offer to the Czech Republic and Poland to place elements of the A.R. system in their territories, respectively, a radiostation station and 10 interceptor missiles. If the agreement of these countries, which has not yet been given, is discussed, the United States will start this work in 2010-2011. Secondly, an important element is that the United States has been engaged in a negotiating process on missile defence with both the Russian Federation and European countries since the early 2000s. In particular, during the last year alone, three high - level delegations of the United States held talks in Moscow. Third, as a result. It's also an important element, as a result of the negotiations that took place here in Kiev, we got from the American side information that they're willing to involve Ukrainian specialists and political and technical level in the process of development, expansion and then monitoring the operation of the new AO system. In this situation, Ukraine is actively negotiating with the main participants in this problem, the United States, the Russian Federation, Poland and the Czech Republic. We have also come into contact with the European Union and appropriate consultations with NATO will take place as soon as possible. What is the purpose of these measures? The goal is to obtain as much information as possible from the question that Ukraine is not a major player, but at the same time it has life’s national interests. This is all the more important because the Ukrainian military and industrial complex and the science and technology complex have great opportunities to participate in the implementation of the ABM system if this is the case in Europe. It's not about Ukraine being able to agree or disagree at this stage, but it's about Ukraine having to study the situation as much as possible, and the main thing is to study the situation inside itself in order to understand how we can preserve our interests, both in terms of technology and in terms of national security in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u36	Any questions? You're recording while the recording is coming, Andrew Ivanovich, did the representatives of the United States State Department have reason to claim that Ukraine, along with the other 14 states, because only 15 are listed, is participating in the deployment of the ABM systems? On what basis did this statement come about?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u37	First of all, the word “location”. There is no A.O. system, there is no study of its location. The other one. It's about the technical side of the question. In Ukraine, there is the National Space Agency of Ukraine, which is a producer of both rocket technology and missile tracking technology, which is also a co-conspirator, a technical communicator of those American companies or organizations that are engaged in, I repeat, in technical terms, the development of means of resisting unauthorized rocket launches, obviously that's what American experts meant. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not negotiated and has no intention of conducting them – with regard to the placement or placement plans of the AO with the American side.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u38	Then back it up. Or after such information, the Ministry asked the State Department to explain what they had in mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u39	That's exactly what we did on our visit to the American delegation, and they promised to give us all the information we needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u40	Thank you. Cowchenko, please. Ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u41	Cowchenko. I ask that you pass the word to Simonenko Petra Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u42	Simonek's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u43	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished rapporteur! I would still like to hear from you whether the official note of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has indeed been as formal as possible on such allegations that Ukraine is participating in the negotiations on the development of the ABM system. You didn't answer me either, and it's obvious to me that this is another page of disgrace, a national disgrace for Ukraine. Because representatives of the Ministry of Defence, especially when it practically states that it has received appropriate training in the United States of America, like the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, confirms this. But I have a question of this nature. The Permanent Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that Ukraine's participation in the military campaign in Iraq was good for Ukraine. Please give us a specific name of what good was expressed, except for the deaths of our officers there? What was done? Oil development? Of course, do you have any defined benefits? What did we do as a result of your adventure?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u44	First of all, I didn't understand the question: is it an MMS note or is it an adventure in Iraq? Secondly, what you call the adventure of Iraq was the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. That's why I wouldn't be commenting more deeply right now. And thirdly, the question sounded, but it's very complicated, and if it can be in some way detailed, then the ministry will usually give an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u45	Well, as I understand it, I did. Please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u46	Dear Andrew Ivanovich, I have a question for you. I realize that Ukraine's opinion is not really what they want to hear about it, but whoever's knocking is finally going to get it. Don't you think it's appropriate for all branches of government not only from your ministry, from the President, from the Government, from the Supreme Council on the grounds that the development of the APR system in Europe, Eurasia on the Eurasian continent would be much more appropriate, not based solely on the authority and proposals of the United States or NATO, but on the basis of, say, “Partnerships for Peace”, including Ukraine and Russia. This would provide a completely effective mechanism that would completely deter unstable countries that could use nuclear weapons in the future and actually render the use of these technologies and further development useless to them and stop this system. I think it would be a very good initiative, which would sound good in the world.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u47	Thank you. First of all, I would like to say that this is my deep belief that Ukraine has sufficient authority and power to influence this situation. We say that Ukraine is secondary. It's not like that. I would also like to point out that in a situation where we have conflicts of interest, Ukraine can and should play a stabilizing role. First of all, it has to do with the scientific and technical potential that we have. And secondly, it's about what's going on in a very large country on a European scale, which is also geographically important between potential terrorist countries or regimes and between Europe and the United States. So our role is, and our role will be in this situation. And it's important that the basic Ukrainian authorities that are doing this right now, namely the NCAU, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u48	Bubba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u49	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. The deployment in Poland of ten U.S. missile launchers at a distance of more than 3,000 kilometres poses a threat to the Russian strategic nuclear forces. At the same time, Americans claim that the destruction of ballistic missiles by these missiles in the middle of the flight trajectory. Thus, it is these fragments that can completely cover the territory of Ukraine. Even if they say they're targeting Iranian missiles. According to official sources, the secretary-in-chief of the United States Department of State said that such negotiations were under way with other countries of Europe on the deployment and development of this missile defence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u50	First of all, yesterday there was a rather deep discussion on this subject with all technical aspects at the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Security and Defence, where the number of missiles and distances and so on were tested. I wouldn't want to go back to this right now, it's a very long conversation, but I can give you concrete answers. Let me just point out that the Russian Federation has about three thousand rockets, if we're talking. And they're targeting the United States, on condition. And in Poland, there's going to be 10 rockets. So there's no reason to talk about one destroying the other's potential. We're talking about something else right now: we're talking about the role of Ukraine first. And the role of Ukraine should be to mobilize and propose proposals that neither the Russian Federation nor the United States nor our European interlocutors can refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u51	Please, Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u52	Dear Mr. Deputy Minister, yesterday I went for water on my buffet and heard a pregnant woman talking to a young mother. One says, "What difference does it make to you?" And the one with the wheelbarrow says, "How do you not know that it will fall on our heads?" Do the Ministry of Foreign Affairs understand that Ukraine, as a result of such a decision by the United States, is actually becoming a battlefield between the United States and Syria, and Iran, the United States and the Russian Federation, in any case, we are becoming a battlefield. Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs understand what ordinary citizens understand, that the task of your Ministry is to remove this threat from our country?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u53	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs understands that the task of Ukraine in this situation is to play so that we are participants, if it is, and that it will not harm Ukraine if it is without us. And that's what we're doing, that's what I've dedicated my speech to. It would be foolish to base Ukraine’s policies on what two young women might discuss. At least it would be wiser to gather at the level of experts, as I repeat, yesterday was the meeting of two committees, and to discuss in depth the concrete steps of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u54	Peter Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear reporter, I am deeply convinced that discussions on the need for further study of the situation will end as soon as Ukraine is faced with the fact that the decision is made, you sit down and don't scratch. Correct my opinion. And the second question. Please tell me how you, as a representative of foreign policy, feel that at a press conference recently held in Ukraine by an American general, along with the American Ambassador of Pronatian. There was a cynical beating of Ukrainian citizens who opposed the involvement of Ukraine in NATO. Is this a video report to the Washington Human Resources Department? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u56	Thank you. Regarding the cynical beating, I think that if it was small, those who had been beaten should go to court. And that would be the right thing to do. And the court would determine whether or not there was a cynical beating and so forth. And accordingly, those who have been cynically beaten should be punished. Probably. That's one thing. As for what's going to be a decision, and we're going to swallow it as you say, no, it can't be. For that simple reason, it's a complex of countries and a set of issues. It's not about the national territory of the United States, it's about the territory of Europe. And in this Europe there are also institutions such as the European Union, such as NATO, where there are serious states such as Germany, such as France, which have a point of view. They have already begun to participate in this dialogue, just as Ukraine has, which is also taking part in this dialogue. And if we were to formulate our position, not in a demagogic one, but in a c.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u57	Yes. Well, given that there are now 366 members of the people and a representative of the opposition insisting on questions, please, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u58	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Sergey Shevchuk, Yulia Block Timoshenko Dear Andrew Ivanovich, please tell us that we are now discussing this issue in the context of what, God forbid, tomorrow may be some military action and Ukraine may be able to cover something up. We understand this as the move of one state to financially, economically burn out another state, our neighbour, the Russian Federation, as it has done with the Soviet Union. But I have a very different question. So what is your forecast: after 2008, after the elections in the United States, is it obvious that the new political power has a better chance of coming to power, or will the same pushovers of the AO system be, or maybe this position will change into a more tolerant one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u59	The missile defense system isn't created because the president wants it, because there's a real threat to unsanctioned rocket launches in the world. In recent years the number of ballistic missiles in the world has been increasing from year to year. Gradually, missile technology will come into the hands of nongovernmental, non-state agencies, institutions, or groups. Recent developments in the Middle East give clear reasons for considering the need for a global missile defense. Maybe what's going on right now, and that's what needs to be studied, and it's kind of a dramatic and stressful beginning to create this global missile defense system. Ukraine is interested in such a system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u60	Thank you, Andre Ivanovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss matters? Yes. If so, the Supreme Council should be determined in accordance with article 235 of the Rules. Who, in order to discuss the issue and give the opportunity to speak to the factions, please vote. Vote. [[11:02:52]] For 217 The factions, please. Region Party - 181, Block Timoshenko - 4, Our Ukraine - 0, Socialists - 7, Communists - 20, non-fractional - 5. Who wants to go back to voting on this issue? Please vote. [[11:03:33]] For 214 Even less, so there will be no discussion. We've got, uh, respectable colleagues, draft decrees, draft decrees, it's small, so I think that's an interesting question for our voters, and I'm going to read it. After hearing information from the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine expresses concern about plans to deploy elements of the U.S. missile defence system in the territory of neighbouring countries: the Czech Republic and Poland. [[OBJECTIVE]] The implementation of these plans threatens Ukraine’s national security, the lives of millions of its citizens, since experts have concluded that, in the event of the use of missiles and their means of destruction, it is not excluded that the task of damage with the severe consequences of the population, an important national plant, including nuclear power plants in the territory of our country. The Supreme Council of Ukraine also notes that the decision to deploy elements of the U.S. A. system was triggered by massive protests by the Czech and Polish population, other European states, a decisive negative reaction by the government, neighbouring Ukraine, the Russian Federation, against which, according to the Russian side, the elements of the system in the Czech Republic and Poland are actually unfolding. In this context, any claim that Ukraine could join the American plans for the AA system does not suit its national interests. Second, the Supreme Council of Ukraine is based on the fact that the national interests of Ukraine and all the countries of the European continent would be most fully in line with the creation of a common European system of collective security, which would include all without exception the State of Europe, to exclude the emergence of new distribution lines on our continent, and in which a pan-European missile defence system could also be created. Third. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is tasking the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to bring this position to the UN Security Council, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the governments of other interested states. Four. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. I put to the vote a decree number 3292 on information from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine on the situation around the ABM system. And in an editorial like I read. Please vote. Based on the base. [[11:06:27]] For 243 Copy that. Yes, please write down what you have to offer. We'll give each faction an opportunity. Yes, Baranowski. S.O.P.U.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u61	Adam Ivanovich, thank you. I'd like a word with Shibka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u62	Quick, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u63	Thank you. Fast, socialist faction. Adam Ivanovich, there are very good things written there. I'm going to say that you're in line for the fact that we have the National Security Fundamentals Act. But there are things that don't have to be done in the room. So I suggest, let's still assign our committee or committee of defense to work on tomorrow and put it to a final vote at tomorrow's meeting, and tomorrow to vote in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u64	Please, Knyazevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u65	Dear colleagues, I'm very sorry that the draft ruling is actually quite relatable to the information we just heard from the Deputy Secretary of Defense, from the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. After all, everyone heard what they wanted to hear. As far as I'm concerned, Ukraine's threat is not from the likely AO system that is unknown, but from the fact that there are two RLS in Ukraine that are now, in fact, in knowledge, in the lease of the Russian Federation, but we know that the Russian Federation is, in fact, in a state of war as in the middle of the state, in relation to the Muslim republic, and, accordingly, the Muslim countries are openly or secretly supporting this war. Whether we will be threatened by individual countries in connection with the presence in our territory of these rls. As a result, it is proposed that the government be instructed to negotiate with the Russian Federation the immediate termination of the RLS lease agreement in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u66	Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u67	Herman, Party of Regions. We propose to support the proposal of representatives of the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u68	Please, yes. A communist motorist.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u69	Should we? Samuel Catherine Seminovna, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine I don't think we should put these things off. I don't think we are. That some of us are already here, if you'll excuse me, are pleased to be in the United States of America. I think it'll be absolutely right, stately. None. We heard the information, it was like, we didn't need it at all, we knew this position anyway. We have an offer to accept this decision today and today. And if you want to play two fronts, that's what you have to say. But I think the position should be proven by the state, and the position should correspond to the sovereignty of Ukraine, the state interests of Ukraine. And you don't have to play today and pretend that you want to invent something smarter than you are in this determination. We have to vote in favour, we have to put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u70	School, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u71	Dear Chief, distinguished fellow national MPs! I would like to emphasise that this is, of course, an important issue that we are discussing, but we cannot decide to vote like this from the outset. I think that's a difficult question. We accepted from a base, let's assign a committee of profile and committee in foreign affairs, and a committee that's now headless, on security issues, to be able to study and process. It is not worth jumping to conclusions, for emotions and the desire to change circumstances are always overwhelming and burdensome. Let's deal with the cold, cold-blooded circumstances that have arisen. So I insist that we not now vote on the draft decree as a whole. This is the position of our faction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u72	Thank you. Yes, the honourable fellows, the sayings were. Well, the only thing I'd like to say is that it's not out of voice, it's a given draft decree two weeks ago. In my voice, I was the only one who said that the names of ministers who didn't report here today were written down. And that's why I replaced the ministers' names with information from the Ministry of the One and the Ministry of the Two. It was, again, not out of voice, except that the names were taken. But if you think about it, although here, once again, I'm stressing, honourable colleagues, you and I have discussed a very complex issue and an extremely topical question, this is what the whole of Europe is talking about, look at the media, look at the European media. Europe has literally gone deep in connection with the efforts of the United States to place the APR system. Europe, I repeat, unites the whole of Europe in the leadership of the Federal Republic of Germany, which I now preside over in the European Union, other states, other leading states, factions and the population of Poland and the Czech Republic, against exactly such adventure plans. And I think, given that, once again, I'm underlining that Americans are constantly either provoking us, or they have reason to believe that we're involved in this system. It would be absolutely right for the higher legislature to give its answer, or to give its assessment of this position in the United States, because this is the case with the European continent with you. And here, as it were, is this estimate. But if there's any attempt on the profile committees, the profile committees, I think, let's put this in charge of the committee, the committee, probably one committee. Because if there's two, they're both going to be on top of each other, and as a result, we're not going to see this decision. I mean, I'm putting this motion to a vote: to assign the Foreign Affairs Committee for the next plenary week, for the next plenary week, to make this decision, as a whole, to make it a decision. Please vote in favour of such an assignment. [[11:13:37]] For 245 Decision taken. Once again, let me remind you of the responsibility of the question that you and I have discussed. It's a question of proportion. I hope we've given the basic estimates here, in the decision we've taken as a basis. Let's take another look at the committee and finally take it in the next plenary week. Let us now consider the question of the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. Head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! According to part two of article 131 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Higher Council of Justice consists of twenty members, three of whom are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. According to part two of article 8 of the Ukrainian Law on the Higher Council of Justice, all the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposed the following candidates for appointment: Bondika Valerija Anatoliyovich, Zavalník Vladimir Vasilovich, Kolisnichenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Labunski Angelika Viktorovna. On the withdrawal of the nominations of Ms. Seljenova Anatolia Alexandrovich, Onichuka Mikli Vasilovich, was announced at the plenary meeting on 15 March 2007, but there were no written applications to the committee. At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee on Justice considered the proposed candidates and concluded that they all met the requirements of the Ukrainian Law “On the Higher Council of Justice” and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be determined by a secret vote on the appointment of three members of the High Council of Justice by way of the submission of ballot papers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u74	Yes, Sergey Vasilovich, name again the names for which we have to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u75	Bondica Valerija Anatoliyovich, Zavalnjak Vladimir Vasilovich, Koleszenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Labunski Angelika Viktorovna
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u76	Yes, will there be any questions? Have a seat, please. I'm just going to inform you, dear colleagues, that today, on behalf of the Supreme Council, a statement came from Onechuk. “This claims that he has been removed from office as a member of the High Council for the Justification of his candidacy.” I mean, there's a statement. So this is how we're going to look at Bondy's, the Colossal, and the Labunsky candidatures. I propose, my fellow Members, that you and I consider these nominations last Thursday and discuss them. Is there a need to listen to their information, questions, and discussions again? It is not possible or only to re-vote. Okay. Then the word is given to the head of the Counting Commission, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u77	Dear colleagues, let me announce a meeting of the members of the Counting Commission in the third floor of Room 5 where we are always going. According to the Rules, I recall briefly the composition of the Counting Commission, with your permission without your name, your father's, elected on 25 May 2006 and 16 November, elected after the tragic death of the Ukrainian National Deputy Yuri Orbots: Abdulin, Biruk, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, Vyezivsky, Gnatenko, Žebrovski, Kirilczuk, Kozub, Komar, Korsakov, Final, Pecklusenko, Riamaruk, Stasov, Stoyan, Sulkovsky, Suhi, Cibenko, Tarasiv, Filindash, Chubarov and Shago. Named colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies are requested to meet in the room where we are sitting in five minutes. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I ask you to put it to the vote now and confirm the form of the ballot because we approved it last time. A white rectangle with surnames to be written in alphabetical order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u78	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we essentially have two decisions under the Rules. First, how to vote, because there are four candidates, and then there are three. And how to place them, that is, in alphabetical order, as we did last time. And confirm the form of the ballot that it will take the form of white as it did last time. Is there no objection? I'm putting these proposals two to a vote so we can alphabetically put them on the ballot and approve the form of the ballot to speed up the work of the Counting Commission so that we can have a secret vote at 12 o'clock. Please vote [[11:19:26]] For 238. A decision has been made. Please proceed to work with the commission. Operationally, Jaroslav Mikhailovich, do this work. And we are discussing the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on the Election of Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretaries, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of Heads, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Privatization. Registration number 3352. Efraemov reports Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! At its meeting on March 19, this year, the Committee considered a statement by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Biláš Boris Fedorović, a member of the Party of the Regions, on his election as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Considering that the accounting quota for the Party of the Regions' Deputies in the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations has not been fully used, the Committee decided to support the application of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Bilash, and to submit an appropriate draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3352]] Please support the draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u80	Will there be questions for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. As we can see, the compliance with the requirements of the Rules here has been reported to us by the committee. I therefore put to the vote Order No. 3352 “On the election of Bilaš Boris Fedorovich, the National Deputy of Ukraine from the Party of the Regions, a member of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations”. Please vote. [[11:21:51]] For 240 Decision taken. The factions? Please use fractions: Region Party – 181, "Block Timoshenko" – 6, "Our Ukraine" – 0, socialists – 28, communists – 20, non-fractional – 5. Questions about the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyyovich. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u81	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! To carry out the mandate of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Mr. Moroz of 15 March 2007, the Committee considered, at its meeting on 19 March 2007, a draft regulation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the Heads, First Deputys, Deputy Heads, Secretarys, Members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, First Deputy, Deputy Heads, Secretary and Members of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Privatization" on the election of Mr. Tedeev as Head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Mr. Komar Mikola Stepanović, registered number 3329, dated 15 March 2007. In 2007 The committee decided, among others, to raise the mentioned issue for discussion at the Conciliation Council of Heads of Deputies and to make a concerted proposal for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let us ask the Supreme Council to decide on this issue, as this is outside the competence of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u82	Yeah, and there's another one. I don't know if she got to you yesterday. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u83	Project 3329-1, introduced by National Deputy Bondar to the Committee. We haven't got it yet, and we haven't been able to look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u84	But I'll remind you, there's such a draft regulation. Helen Bodnar proposes the election of Andriy Vasilovich as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u85	To this day, I answer the question, to this day, there is no question on this committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u86	Okay. I wasn't looking at the committee. I see. Will there be questions? Well, that doesn't matter. Any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, let's take six minutes. Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u87	Thank you. I'm asking you to pass on the word Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u88	Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u89	Thank you very much. I now have two minutes, Adam Ivanovich. Please pay attention to that. For me, the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Physical Culture, Fairer, Sport and Tourism is a great committee, because I have given almost ten years of my life to this committee. And what I want to say is that basically we created a legal base there, and a lot of that, you know, bone, bone-like bone. I'd like to ask you a question and a wish, Your Honor, Alexander Sergiyovich. I want to support Elbrus Thadeyev's candidacy, and I know this man as a very decent man, as a really sportsman, who by his own power, by his own power, and by his political power, and by his physical strength chose for our Ukraine honor, glory and gold. And I think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u90	You don't have two minutes, because one minute. I don't know. Please answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u91	Thank you for asking. In the Rules of Procedure, you know, we are considering compliance with the Rules of Procedure. This question relates in the context in which it was considered, to the competence of the Conciliation Council. That's why we were addressing this issue to the Supreme Council -- to be identified in the session room today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u92	Klukkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u93	Thank you. Please give the floor to the National Deputy, Olga Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u94	Turn on Ollie Bodnar's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u95	Thank you. I can't understand why our own decree, 3329-1, was not included yesterday. According to article 77, part two, we didn't have any breach of regulations. I think that if this question is being considered in a democratic way, not in a way where one person needs to be stretched out, and the other person is not being considered in any way, then you can continue to do so. But if you think that the issue should be dealt with in a complex without violating the Rules, I think I should be heard as the author who orders the Rules without any violation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u96	If I understand, thank you for asking. If I understand your question is also included today, and we haven't considered it on the committee, because it's not physically on the committee. There are your representatives, they can confirm it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u97	Well, that's more of a question for me. I'm going to inform you that it won't happen again, as the opposition always likes it to say that everyone is in violation. I must admit, indeed, that I am in violation of the Rules by putting this issue under consideration today. Because Bodnar’s decree on the appointment of the School was already being considered in this session. If the question has been considered once, we have no right to put the second session under consideration. But knowing that this is a desire for opposition and for it to calm down, I set it up by breaking the Rules. And today that question stands, and you will get the word. This is about what I asked: Has the committee been able to consider? Because you only filed that order last night. The committee was unable to consider what the committee head had said. But contrary to the Rules, we will also consider this decree. Calm down. Sas, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. With regard to the nomination of the School, there are no restrictions in the Rules on the nomination of any candidate. And now the question to Alexander Sergiyovich. Alexander Sergiyyovich, the committee took the following decision: To adopt the conclusion, the second paragraph, to propose to the head of the Supreme Council of Moroz, in accordance with the provisions of part two of article 89 of the Supreme Council Rules, that the draft decision of the subject of the legislative initiative should be returned for further consideration at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council. And third, not to address the Supreme Council, but to address the head of the Supreme Council of the Frost with a proposal to raise the mentioned issue for discussion at the Conciliation Council of the Heads of Deputies. I don't think we're going to deny that this decision was taken by consensus, despite the fact that most coalition representatives are on the committee. Would you mind if I told you the truth about the committee's decision? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u99	Sergey Vladimirovich, you told the truth. I cut out everything that you said, the main thing that we discussed on the committee, that this matter is within the purview of the true Conciliation Council, and we all came to it. In any event, the issue must be addressed in the sessional room. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u100	Shevchuk Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u101	Sergey Shevchuk, BUT faction. The question itself is quite different. It's not about a staff assignment, it's about breaking quota agreements. This position is the quota for the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” and therefore the discussion should go in a completely different direction. That the parliamentary majority, through the very solution of this issue, wants to violate all previous agreements and clearly realizes that the reaction of the opposition will be adequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u102	Thank you. That's probably more of a fact than a question. Although I can answer that the majority representatives who were at the meeting of the Committee had appealed that the quota that the Party of the Regions belonged to in the secretariat had been voluntarily allocated to the BIT on its part. Therefore, it was only natural that the redeployment, including many deputies, had become extra-fractional that they had claimed that quota. This is true, and this has been confirmed on the committee, and this is no secret.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u103	Not in the secretariat, in the leadership of the Supreme Council. Please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u104	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I believe that in this situation it is necessary to proceed with the vote and the vote to determine who will chair this committee. The importance of this committee is enormous. That is what we stress, by defining the Committee's leadership and commissioning a specific candidature, we once again declare that we are ready to work constructively, ready to work in all directions today. These are problems that are really very serious for our young people, those are problems that are related to the family, that are today problems in training Ukraine in various sporting activities, that is, what we need today – both coalitions and people. And I believe that we should vote by entrusting this candidature with the task of chairing the committee and organizing the work. I call, Adam Ivanovich, for the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u105	Please. Well, that's a wish, I get it. Thank you, Alexander Sergiyovich, sit down, please. So I invite the author of the bill, Helen Bodnar, Bill 3329-1. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u106	Thank you. Olga Bodnar, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! As a result of my release. Admission to the post of chairman of the Supreme Council Committee. Tomenko Volodymyrovich, deputy head of the Supreme Council, was released from office by the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism. In accordance with article 76 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, quotas for the distribution of committee heads are determined in proportion to the number of MP factions. To the actual number of national deputies. This regulatory norm that you and I have to carry out regardless of the political passions that arise in the session room. The headship of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sport, and Tourism refers to the quota of the Yulia Timoshenko faction, and the election of a representative of another political force is, in fact, a violation of the rules of the Rules, namely the article. Article 76, paragraph 4, on quota, is part 5 of article 77, that the head of the committee, the first deputy and the secretary cannot be members of a single MP faction. The essence of my bill is that, in principle, in this case, we're not talking about who will lead this position, and we're not talking about whether it's important or not for us. It's more than that, it's about "screw" that destroys any democratic principles. If the Rules are repealed, laws are broken, why should we be surprised that we are not helping you? Our political power clearly and consistently declares our position; we are only willing to work within the legal field in the interests of Ukraine. The decision I propose to support you is that you choose the School of Andriy Vasilovich as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Family, Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism, releasing him from the duties of deputy head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in foreign affairs. When I finish my speech, I want to ask again, not to engage in politics, but to mention those promises that you are going to work with us for the benefit of the Ukrainian people and the state at all, and not to violate the Rules, and not to violate those quota conditions, which is the quota behind which our political power stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u107	Will there be questions? Is it? None. Have a seat, please. Is there a desire to share in the discussion? Yes. Sign up. From the faction, please. Yes, 12 minutes please, Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u108	Dear colleagues! Dear radio listeners, the problem is that today we need to identify ours, decide on the decision and election of the head of one of the committees that is dealing with the problems of young people, sports and families. With regard to the first problem that our opponents are facing today regarding the consideration of another candidate. First. Yes, indeed, this has to do with the regulation being placed in the distribution between the committees among the factions. And in this case, there was an agreement that those factions that didn't join the coalition were allocated a certain number of committees, and that was the result of the review during our first session. Regarding the fact that one of the national deputies from the opposition became a substitute for the head, there is an opportunity to consider this position of head of the committee from the problems they have mentioned, it will refer to the coalition. That's the first one. Secondly, I propose in this case to support Thadeyeva's candidacy, based on what a person deserves respect for himself, and on what he's doing, he's got a lot of achievements in sports, so let's say, he understands the problems that the committee is dealing with today. And I think that these are the people who already have achievements in the big one, and this is professional sports today, and they will not only be known to representatives of other parliaments, but also known in the world, especially the problems that we care about today. And thirdly, I would like to draw very seriously attention to the candidate offered by the opposition. In Parliament. First of all, I have reason to talk about it openly. He's an engaged man, he's an open nationalist. And based on what's going on in our country, it's only going to be a threat. Because first of all, it's going to contribute to a non-agreed position, not to a consolidated position of parliament, but rather to create some problems that, unfortunately, today and so much in our country. The Communist faction therefore proposes to support Taddeeva's candidacy, to vote. Vote. And I ask the coalition to support this very candidate, to vote on this and to put a dot in place for the organization of our work. We have something to do. I'm asking you to support the run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u109	Thank you, Sergey Sas, Radziewski is next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u110	Thank you. Sergey Sas, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. First Deputy Head of the Committee on Rules of Procedure. And I'm going to start out with the rules of procedure. I wanted to speak first of all to the Chairman of the session, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk. What I have before me is the agenda, where the question is highlighted, and it is addressed by Efraem's Alexander Sergiyovich. Please. However, I would like to point out that the subject of the legislative initiative's right under the ruling under consideration regarding the election of Tedeiev Elbrus as chairman of the committee was introduced by national deputy Komar Mikola Stepanovich. He did not report on this. What is involved in this matter? The question was discussed as I had already said, and this was said by Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the committee at the meeting of our committee at the commission of the Chairman of the Supreme Council of Moroz Aleksandra Alexandrovich. As a result of the professional discussion at the committee meeting, a decision was taken unanimously, which has already been made. In particular, the Committee concluded that, according to the requirements of section 7 of article 7 of the Ukrainian Law on the Committee, part 7 of article 78 of the Rules of the Supreme Council in the event that the head of the committee is dismissed from office is entitled to be appointed as a member of the Deputy faction of which he has been elected to office, that is, in this case under the quota of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. With regard to the committee’s decision, which was adopted unanimously, the second paragraph suggests that the Head of the Supreme Council should be sent a bill to the subject of the legislative initiative, since there are, among other things, other violations of the rules of procedure. In accordance with article 86, part 1, of the Rules of the Supreme Council, there is no proposal for an interview. There is no Explanatory Note to be added to the draft regulation and so on. Therefore, and thirdly, to contact the Head of the Supreme Council to consider this issue at the Conciliation Council meeting in connection with the fact that a number of questions arose during the discussion at the Committee’s meeting. I think that this decision is compromising and, frankly, in the course of many years of work in the Supreme Council, I do not recall in practical terms when the decision of the Regulatory Committee was ignored in such a cynical manner, especially when the majority of members of this committee are members of the coalition, when the decision on this committee was taken by consensus. So in this case, this question is rhetorical to the Head of the Supreme Council. I think it's worth mentioning what the third president of the United States of America, Jefferson, once said, is the main piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u111	Radziewsky Alexei From the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u112	In unquestionably supporting the candidature, Elbrusta Tedeev, I give the floor to Ravil Safiullin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u113	Ravil Safiullin, please, from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. I want to say that Elbrus Tedeev has earned this position as head of this committee. He proved his love for our homeland, not being a national MP, at the same time as he ascended to the highest level of the count of the Olympic Games, and thus the flag of our country was raised to certain heights. I would like to say that the share of sport in the work of the Committee as a whole is the lion's share. Yeah, it might be about family and young people today, somewhere he hasn't reached what he needs, but this guy's got it all going. Therefore, on behalf of the “Region” faction, I propose to support this candidature and fully join the representatives of the previous speakers in support of Elbrus Tedeev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u115	Thank you. Prince Ruslan. From where? Please, there's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u116	Dear colleagues, it's a shame that today's discussion of this issue is trying to flatten our unwillingness to support Elbrus Tedeev's candidacy, and even at some point they're trying to explain who he is. We know Elbrus Tedeev very well. This is, indeed, a man who gained the glory of Ukraine on the world’s battle mats by winning the Olympic medal. We follow his career very closely, and we are proud to have him as a colleague. But it's different. The fact is that today the coalition is brutally trying to break not only the agreements that were in place. achievements after the Party of the Regions had actually blocked the rostrum for two weeks, requiring compliance with the Committee Act and the Rules in this section on Proportional Representation in Committee Leadership. But here it is surprising that indeed, just as the deputy colleague Sas has just said, the rule of law has been violated openly, brutally, and that decision of the committee that was adopted is absolutely clear. There is article 89 of the Rules, which states that if a professional committee detects such a violation, such an application may be either by a decision of a committee to the head of the Supreme Council or by a conciliatory council. You don't have to do that, and it would have been a decision, and all it took was the committee's decision. Again, this is the reason why the Chief of the Supreme Council should return the prescribed draft decree to the subject of the legislative initiative without discussion at the Supreme Council’s session. On the other hand, our faction will support the decision that the author is Ola Bondar, because we have done it for the first time and now in principle and consistently stand up for the quotas of factions in a committee. I hear there's a discussion in the hall right now that it's kind of a reason not to vote for the school's candidacy that Andrew Schlell kind of refused to run again as chairman of the committee. I don't think that's true. In this regard, our faction again insists and calls on the anti-crisis coalition to be consistent and would like to draw the Committee’s heads from the Rules, its attention, it is trying to be principled and consistent in this regard, and that today it has reported the first question that has been answered within the limits of quotas, and we remember how many deputies, including from opposition, could not move to other committees because the Regulatory Committee was too principled in this matter, to be principled to the end. That is why we will support the decision offered by Olga Bodnar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u117	Thank you. In view of the fact that in the course of the discussion there was a remark to the Chief, that he did not give the opportunity to speak to the author of the bill, but given that Mikola Stepanovich said that he would not report, if not necessary, as far as the effort was concerned, Mikola Stepanovich in the hall, please let me give him the opportunity to speak. Don't worry! Don't worry! It's not said that. Do you want to hear the author? The author refused. But you want to hear -- I'm giving you that opportunity. Please, Mikola Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u118	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The point is that the arrangements that were made in the election of the committee heads when the Supreme Council was created in the first session were one to another. Now the situation has changed. At the time, we had no such notion as non-fractional deputies. I'll be with you in a minute. For today, there are seven of them. We have others. For example, look at the presidency of the Supreme Council. A representative of Communists, Socialists, and BUTT sits in the Presidium. The largest faction in Parliament has no representative at all, but the deputy's seat was, according to quotas, beyond the Party of Regions, so we can't talk about those quotas anymore. I'm not the first time I've met a regular committee, it's when I went to the Cabinet of the Ministers of the Azarov Committees and others, and I suggested that we look at these quotas anyway. The quotas applied to the creation of the Rules cannot be applied for all five years. If the situation hasn't changed, yes, but the situation is changing, so we need to look at and review the quotas. And it was true that those who spoke about what really needed to be taken into account in the election of committee members, too, that the composition of the Supreme Council had changed. In view of all these reasons, I made such a determination. That's my right. Your right to vote, to approve or not to approve. Well, well, well, well. about the candidature itself. You know, according to Tedeeva's candidacy, there can be no doubt or argument at all. I didn't hear a word here discussing that he didn't fit this position. Thank you. The question is, if there is, I'm ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u119	Thank you. All of it. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Question completed. We're going to make a decision now. However, on the chairman’s right, as a result of the committee’s decision, I postpone consideration of decree 3329. I'm taking the ruling number 3329 on Tadeyev. And I put to the vote the decree number 3329-1: choose the School of Andriy Vasilovich as head of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on family, youth policy, sport and tourism. I'd like to make up my mind. [[B in m in s a l in]] It's not moving. That's why! That's why! I put it to a vote, please. [[11:50:18]] For-138 The factions. Party of regions – 0, Block Timoshenko – 90, “Our Ukraine” – 48, Socialists, Communists, non-fractional – zeros. Dear colleagues, I also address factions. We are discussing this at the Conciliation Council. And we will certainly put a dot in the next plenary Thursday when we consider the issue at the Conciliation Council and the decision taken unanimously by the Committee on Rules of Procedure. Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u120	Dear colleagues, I'd like to show you a sample of the ballot paper that you and I have approved by decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Four candidates are included in the ballot for secret ballots on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. The chosen ones will be those for whom we will give 226 votes. You know we have to select three members of the High Council of Justice. Two signatures are the form of protection for this ballot: the commission’s heads, the commission’s secretary, and the vote on the registration tables. One more. I remind everyone that the reason for receiving the ballot is the personal identification of the Ukrainian National Deputy. In the voting zone, there can only be people who, national deputies, vote. The Ukrainian National MP may enter the voting zone only once – this is a requirement of the Rules. I would like to announce to everyone that in nine minutes — at 12.00 p.m., the election of the members of the High Council of Justice will begin at the registration desks. The election will take one hour according to the requirements of the Rules. At 12 o’clock in the voting zone, the vote will begin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u121	Thank you. Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Dear colleagues, he doesn't have twelve o'clock yet, we're still working. A draft regulation on the creation of a joint parliamentary-government commission from Ukraine's integration into the European Union is under consideration, registration number 2878. Please report to the Vice-President of the Committee on European Integration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u122	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished guests, TV viewers, TV broadcasters, the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the establishment of a joint Parliamentary-Governmental Commission from Ukraine's integration into the European Union, a project initiated by the Ukrainian People's Deputies, representatives of all five factions represented in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and is a further project that takes account of all the observations made by the legal and scientific authorities and the proposals made by the national MPs. The project is supported by the Committee on Economic Policy, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on European Integration. The project is supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine and the Ministry of Economy of Ukraine. The creation of a joint parliamentary-government commission from Ukraine's integration into the European Union is extremely relevant and meets all the requirements and realities of the relationship between Ukraine and the European Union. I would like to point out that Ukraine's integration into the European Union is one of the priorities of government policy in Ukraine. This means a comprehensive reconstruction of the economy of the country of implementation of European standards in all spheres of social life and practical steps on this path are the implementation of joint projects and programmes that cannot be implemented without the active involvement of Parliament as a legislative body and the close interaction and cooperation of Parliament with the government, the public and the intellectual potential of the country. The benefits of membership in the European Union are political, economic, and social. It is integration that is called upon to stimulate political reform, to guarantee external and internal security and to create the right conditions for the development of the state. Therefore, the members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine should study and analyse perfectly the possible advantages, consequences and problems of integration of Ukraine into the European Union. In this context, the creation of a joint parliamentary-government commission from Ukraine's integration into the European Union is a necessary and important step to ensure the continued development of our state and the successful future integration into European structures. The Joint Parliamentary-Governmental Commission should become a political instrument to consolidate the efforts of the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the government, other executive bodies, local self-government, the public, the intellectual elite on the path of building a European model for Ukraine's development. The main tasks of the Joint Parliamentary Commission are to make recommendations on the basis of Ukraine's economic development strategy in the context of Ukraine's integration into the European Union, to promote Ukraine's integration process in the European Union of objectives and systems, to prepare recommendations for concerted legislative and executive action in the form of a stable and transparent legal field for the implementation of internal and external policies in the context of Ukraine's integration into the European Union. During his visit to Denmark, the President of Ukraine invited the European Union to actively participate in the establishment and consolidation of all branches of government of Ukraine on the path of cooperation towards Ukraine’s accession to the European Union. This is the goal of the joint government and the Supreme Council of Ukraine to ensure the creation of a commission. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u123	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen. I can't see Ephraim. Has the Rules Committee considered this provision? Well, there's no application, I guess. As a result, respectable colleagues rightly reported to Vladimir Mikolaiovich on the need to create such a commission. I don't think there's any objection here. But once again, there is one "but": there is no composition of our commission. So I suggest, let's now vote this regulation on the basis, ask the author of the legislative initiative to prepare a composition, and if he's ready today, we vote today in the afternoon, and we vote, the composition of this commission itself. And we'll take the ruling as a basis. In preparing the commission here, one of the thirty national deputies, I am asking and paying attention to both the faction leaders and those who are preparing, the honourable colleagues, similar decisions to include you in one or another commission only those national deputies who have official representation of the faction -- once, or there is official agreement of the national MP himself. Because it is quite common that Ivanov wants to create a commission, sorry that I called the name “Yvanov”, and he writes there those who he think might be there, not agreeing with the factions or the MPs themselves. So please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, now, if we vote as a basis, please ask the faction to get them to you quickly, you figure out how much someone needs to serve, we pass, and in the afternoon we'll confirm the warehouse itself. Is that what we agree with? Then I am voting on the adoption of the Order No. 2878 establishing a joint parliamentary-government commission with Ukraine's integration into the European Union as a basis. Please be supportive. [[12:00:03]] For 306 As a basis, it's been accepted. Vladimir Mikolaiovich, work with the factions, if there's a list, at 2 p.m. we'll take it as a whole. A one - hour recess is announced for the secret ballot of the members of the High Council of Justice. Continuation of the sitting at 1:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u124	We're continuing the meeting. In line with our traditions and arrangements on Thursday, we consider the question of the election and release of judges immediately after the first recess. Please, Head of the Justice Committee, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u125	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies and present! The Supreme Council Committee on Justice considered at its meeting on 21 March 2007 the appointment of the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the heads of the higher specialized courts on the selection of judges on an open-ended basis, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine decision 3367 of 21 March this year. Dear National Deputies! The procedure reads the judge’s name, raises the judge, and if there is a warning to him, the national MPs report it from the scene. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling and returned to it after voting on another. Judges are in a guest bed. The Committee of the Supreme Council recommends that judges be appointed on an uninterrupted basis: the Court of Appeal of Kyiv Bachurin, Alexander Volodymyrovich; the local Dobropelian Regional Court of the Donetsk Region of Lavrusina Alexandro Mikolaiovich; the local Kyiv District Court of Donetska Brežev Aleksandra Albertovich;
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u126	Is there a note in Brezhněv? Okay. Then. We're removing Brezhnev. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u127	The local Ruzhinski District Court of the Žitomir district of Rudenko Zha Borisovna; the local Energodar City Court of Zaporozhye district of Pahomenko Oleg Hennadyovich; the local Priasovsky District Court of Zaporozhye District of Diobu Grigori Alexandrovich; the local Alexandri City Court of Kirovograd, Kovalovo Olga Bogdanovna; the local Rowenkow City Court of Luhansk district of Ibadov Natalia Pavlovna; the local Starobyl district court of the Luhansk district of Pelich Alexander Alexandrovich; the local Yellow District Court of Luhansk Stotsk Natalija Mikolaynowna;
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u128	That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u129	Uncle, I'm sorry. The local factory district court of Mikolayeva Ageyev Larissa Ivanovna; the local Lenin district court of Mikolayeva, Bogatyrčuk Galin Antonovna; the local Central District Court of Mikolyeva Dirk Ivan Ivanovich; of the local Malinov district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u130	Mlinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u131	Malinov district.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u132	Mlinowski. It's not raspberries, it's the mills.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u133	Ma-Li-Ni district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u134	I repeat, Sergio Vasilovich, not Malinov, but Mlinov, Mlinov district court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u135	Kovalenka Volodymira Mihajlovich; the local Bilopil district court of the district of Tereshchenko Olga Ivanovna; the local Zarah District Court of Suma Burdu Bogdan Viacheslavovich; the local Yellow District Court of Harkova Truhanovich Victoria Valerievna; the local Lenin District Court of Kharkiv Leonid Grigorovitch; the local Grand Alexander District Court of the Herson district of Hamik Irina Ivanovna; the local Novochakov City Court of the Hersonian district of Matthew Natala Vasilovna; the local Suvorov District Court of Herson Sluzarenko Olga Valentinovna; the local Volocic District Court of the Hmelnicke District of Black Sergei Bronislavovich; The local Hmelnick M.E. Court of Hmielnicka District of Mazurok Oksana Volodymyrna; the local Umani District Court of the Cherkas region of Nerusek Larissa Victorovna; the local Gorodnian District Court of the Chernigiv district of Sokolova Alexander Alexiyovich; the local Žitomir District Administrative Court of Evpak Valentina Vasilovna; the local Ravenna District Administrative Court of Bohemia, Sergey Vasilovich, Jurchuk Mikhail Ivanovich; The local Czernigow District Administrative Court, Kashpur Olga Valerievna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u136	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Thus, with the exception of the candidate for office of the local Kyiv District Court of Donetská Breženeva Alexander Albertovich, I am voting on the whole of the Order 3367 on the election of judges on an indefinite basis. Please be supportive. [[13:06:30.]] For 237 Decision taken. Please, Simonnka's microphone, comments on Brežev Alexander Albertovich's candidature.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u137	Simonenko, the Communist faction. After it became known that Brezhov's candidacy was being sent to the Supreme Council for approval by a permanent judge, many of those who knew that I had just lived in the area of Donetsk, asking to postpone this nomination for at least a week or two today, they promised that they would contact our committee in writing with observations against this candidature in order to, in fact, justify but objectively consider all the issues that arise in our electorates. So I asked today, not to say that I am against this candidature, but I would also like to take note of those who come to us verbally, that is, to me. And in a week or two, when there will be a next meeting, and on the committee, we will consider the specific appeals of our voters who are facing the judge in question. Thank you. And please don't look at it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u138	What is the opinion of the committee, Sergey Vasilovich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u139	We agreed. Let's come back in a week, two at that time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u140	Then, dear fellows, let's just say that we're going to ask the committee to consider the statements that are going to be, and in the next plenary week, it's going to be about a week or so, well, when the committee gets there, when the committee gets there, we'll be back. Kenzer, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u141	Jaroslav Kenzior, National Movement of Ukraine, faction of our Ukraine. Adam Ivanovich, I'd like us to have a similar approach to deciding the fate of the judge. Last Thursday, I asked very specific questions about the judge of the Lviv Economic Court of Tetjana Kostów. I gave specific examples of the judge’s specific court decision, but most Communists, including those who waved their hand and supported the anti-crisis coalition of this judge, who had helped plots 32 acres [32 ha] of forest in the first category of the Lviv recreational zone to provide a cooperative for repairs. And it was just Petra Mikolaiovich who called there, and he doesn't have any concrete facts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u142	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. We treat everyone the same way, and that's what the Supreme Council decides, and we're going to put this question to the vote right now. As the Supreme Council will determine, so will it. For the case you're talking about, the Supreme Council made a decision. She made a decision that she thought was possible. So here we all feel the same way and always make decisions in the session room. Who, in order to assign a profile committee to return to the position of the local Kyiv District Court of Donetsk Brežev, Alexander Albertovich, please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u143	For. [[13:10:10]] For 243
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u144	243, the decision is made, even though it may be that we agree. But at the request of Deputy Kendzior, we received confirmation from the Supreme Council. The factions? Please, by the factions. Region Party – 185, Block Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 0, Socialists – 28, Communists – 20, non-fractional – 5. Let us welcome the judges whom we have appointed on short notice today. [[Applause]] Yes, thank you. You're free to go. Please, come on. We don't have an assignment anymore, Sergey Vasilovich? Just getting fired? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u145	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Justice at its meeting on March 21, 2007, reviewed the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges of local courts in connection with the application for resignation. In their statements, the judges indicated that they had written them voluntarily. The Justice Committee supported the above - mentioned application of the High Council of Justice and introduced a corresponding draft of Decree 3367-1 of March 21, this year. Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council requests that the following judges be released: the local Markov district court of the Luhansk district of Kysil Viktor Petrovich; the local court of the Ivano-Frankiv district of Jurczak Volodymyr Antonović. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u146	Yes, I am putting to the vote the order of number 3367-1 on the release of judges, namely: to dismiss from the office of judges Kicsil Viktor Petrovich of the local Markovsk Rijsud Luhanščina and the local court of agriculture of the region of Jurczak Volodymyr Antonović in connection with their resignation. Please vote. [[13:12:41]] For 243 It's been decided. We are considering a draft decision to hear a report from the Attorney General of Ukraine, Medvedzk, on the state of criminal investigation into the death of Hero of Ukraine, W. Chornoval and his assistant, Pavlov, registration number 2722. Kuibyda Vasil Stepanovich reports. Please. You've got time. Well, let's do five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u147	Thank you. Basil Kuibida, Party of the People's Movement of Ukraine. Dear fellow countrymen, dear fellow countrymen! It is well - known that the Ukrainian national deputy, Czarnoville, and his assistant, Paulov, died tragically on March 25, 1999. A criminal case was committed on March 26, 1999, according to the fact that the accident was committed and this year it was stopped by an Amnesty Home Office investigator. In 2001, the investigation was again closed after amnesty. In April 2005, following another appeal by the National Movement of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine, Piscoon, dismissed the case and resumed the investigation for the third time. I'll point out that in the first two investigations, there was only one version of this: an accidental road accident. And it was only during the third investigation that the version of the planned killing of Chernobyl on a road accident began to be tested. From April 2005 to March 2006, the investigation accumulated a number of facts that justify claiming that the event on March 25, 1999 was not an accidental road accident, but a pre-planned and carefully executed murder. These facts confirmed the version worked by the Party Investigation Commission of the National Movement of Ukraine and its materials. Accordingly, the first two investigations can be considered to be at least unqualified, if not called to bury the truth. And the course of the third investigation over the last year cannot be called effective. Moreover, there is reason to claim that there is a deliberate braking of objective investigation, which, both in the past and now, is influenced by interested people who would like to face a manoeuvring investigation. Let me give you a few facts that support this. On May 28, 1999, the expert concluded that the failure of the safety pillows could have been caused by a lack of vehicle slowing down at the moment of the collision, and the estimated sensors as a result of the earlier speeding, the end of the quote. In 2006, three experts came to a different conclusion, first, the security sensors, the whole system was never studied at all. Second, pillows are worked at a speed of 20 miles [30 km] an hour, and collisions occur at speeds of 60 miles an hour. Third. The probability of a security system unlocking on a DTP is zero. That means, more simply, that someone turned off the safety pillows. Four. If the pillows were working, they could have survived. Thus, the investigation still did not determine why no one in 1999-2001 examined the security system and the car itself was reduced in 1999 immediately? Clearly, then, by cutting a thread to investigate the murder. The other one. In 2001, the 9th, 1st years, they were lying, saying they didn't have any material related to the death of Chernobyl. At the time, they had a statement from former Russian FSB officer Babak about the preparation of the Chernobyl assassination. The investigation has yet to determine whose team was to hide and then reduce the material on the Babak’s message? But Babenko, after he made the report, was detained by the falcon workers, spent a few days, cut his veins and so on. Third. An expert in 2001 claimed that a witness named Sholom, who was in “Kamaza, ” had blocked the car in which Cranwall was driving, had died of heart disease. The 2005 expert’s exhumation, by the way, lasted for seven months, showed that there were substances in Sholom’s body: molybdenum, lead, and sulfur that are incompatible with life. Simply put, he was poisoned. In addition, there is evidence that he was visited by strangers and was welcomed to see that the car that these people came to had numbers belonging to a total CPI that were unknown to him back in 1992. Clearly, someone tried to beat him. Another thing about, so-called, Marchuk's film is known to everyone, but no one's looking for a colonel who's been testifying to the organization of this murder or this film. There are at least three national deputies in this room who know and see this film. It is interesting to follow up on the fate of the investigators who investigated the case. One who worked only the random version of the accident grew up in the service, and the one who did the deliberate killing was released. Before 1994, the Secretary of the People’s Movement of Ukraine, Boychisin, disappeared. The electoral days before 1999, Chernobyl was killed. In 2004, Yushchenk was poisoned. There's a whole series of unsolved killings by other parties' politicians. We are obliged to break this chain so that we do not complain about our indecisiveness in the next presidential election. In view of the reasoning, representatives from various factions of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u148	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u149	Both the majority and the opposition have passed a draft decree proposing to hear a report by Attorney General Medvedzk on the state of criminal investigation into the death of Hero of Ukraine and his assistant Paulov. I want to thank the Committee for Law Enforcement for its professional consideration of the draft regulation and its support and to say that it was not only the members of the BUTU, the Party of the Regions, our Ukraine, the SPI, that voted for it, but also the Communists. This honors them because, despite the fact that Chernobyl was their ideal opponent, they advocate for truth and justice. I believe that the recognition of the value of human life, the desire to know the truth and to tell the truth to the Ukrainian people and not to commit similar crimes in the future will form a common position for all the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, regardless of their ideologies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u150	Thank you, Vasil Stepanovich, sit down. Dear colleagues, here's a letter from the Attorney General referring to the Constitutional Court's decision and so on and so forth. The arguments, I think, are right not to interfere. But given the political resonance, Taras, given the resonance, I think you and I will now make a wise decision. The only thing I would ask is that in March we can't hear anymore, let's put it on April 20th. I am voting on the decision to hear the report of the Attorney General of Ukraine on the status of the criminal investigation into the death of Hero of Ukraine and his assistant, Palogo, registration number 2722. Listen to the report. Sorry, April 20th. Please vote. [[13:20:36]] For 351 It's been decided. So on April 20, we'll listen to information from the Attorney General's Office. A draft decree on the establishment of the interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of the situation of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Yushchenk Viktor Andriyovich, and on the reasons and identification of the persons responsible for the delay in the investigation of the criminal case and the transfer of the material to court, registration number 3287, is under consideration. Please, Yuri Baldirev. Prepare Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u151	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u152	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u153	Well, all the theoretical justification for the need for this step you can read it like that, and I just want to say it. Recently, I watched TV, and on television, a very well - known journalist asked a very well - known lawyer: Was there a time when he was afraid? And this lawyer said, "Yes, when I was an investigator in a particularly important case of the Attorney General's Office, I was ordered by the bandits I was hunting, and I was very afraid for my life, for the lives of my loved ones." “And what,” asked the journalist, “the State could not protect you?” “No, I did not believe that the State would protect me.” “What?” “Well, the situation has been resolved. Some bandits killed others as a result of the gang’s squabbles, and it seems that I and my family are still alive.” This investigator, according to the word “important”, has, fortunately, remained alive. Then he became Attorney General in our country, today he is our colleague of the faction of the Party of the Regions. But this event, this television story, it's got me thinking about what's going on with us, what country we're living in, what kind of society we're building. And I realized that the first step that we need in order to at least fix the situation, to start correcting it, we need to deal with the issue of poisoning a candidate to the Presidents, who eventually became an active President, today is the first person in our Power. Because if a State is unable to protect its President, within two years he is in office, and within two years the investigation has not finally come to trial, what a simple citizen can expect, what he can expect, that he will not be killed and his relatives will not know where he is. We see posters in the streets, saying, "We are looking for the children of the missing," tens of thousands of people are missing. What can their relatives expect if the State is unable to protect the President, what are we building?Oh, my God! This is what made me bring this project forward, and I call upon all the factions, all the factions of our Parliament to vote in favour of this project, to create a commission and finally to bring this national disgrace to a dead end. The only amendment is the amendment to the project you've been given, and the fraction of the BUIT has proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u154	Yes, please give us the opportunity to say changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u155	The BUT faction changed about what was written here: Wydrin and Volínec remain, instead of Vorotnuk – Shevchuk, and the fourth is Omelchenko. I hope that in this composition we will still be able to move the problem from a dead point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u156	Thank you. Please sit down. Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the committee
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u157	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! At its meeting on March 19, the committee considered a draft regulation by the national deputy of Ukraine, Boldiryev, to comply with the requirements of the regulations. As a result of the consideration of the above - mentioned draft, the committee adopted the conclusion in which the following observations were made. That is, the requirements of part one of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and Part five of article 80 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules have been violated and it has been determined that the Ukrainian National Deputy may be elected at the same time as a member of a Committee of the Supreme Council and a member of the Provisional Investigation Commission or a temporary special commission. previously proposed before this commission by the national deputies Biruk and Bondarenko are members of other temporary commissions of inquiry. In addition, in paragraph seven of the draft decree, it is proposed that a commission of representatives from the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Ministry of Health of Ukraine be involved, which cannot be done without their prior agreement. It should be noted that on March 19, a draft decision was introduced in exchange for the same registration number that took into account the above comments made by the committee. Therefore, there is no point to this day. Please, the Supreme Council, to decide on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u158	Thank you. Please sit down. Dear colleagues, once again we are faced with the problem that I have already discussed and once again I would like to emphasize it. Moreover, there is a letter from the faction and the deputy faction of “Our Ukraine”, according to which, according to which they say, the National Deputies of Ukraine were included in the commission from the faction of Bogeshev, Humenuk and Karpuk without the consent of the faction. So again and again, I am addressing those who are taking the initiative to create one or more temporary commissions of inquiry, and I am addressing Alexander Sergiyovich, head of the committee, please consider complying with the Rules, taking into account whether these draft decrees have been made or the National Deputies themselves, better start with the agreement and proposals of factions; if there is no agreement and proposals of factions, see if there is agreement of any national MP. Because, unfortunately, the authors sometimes put their own name there, which they do not want to participate in one or another commission. So given what the faction is calling off, and more specifically saying that it was not making its proposals, given what Alexander Sergiyovich was talking about, I propose that we postpone the consideration of this issue until the decision is settled as we discussed it. If a faction does not want to participate in the commission, then if there is no submission, then it is clear that it refuses and we can create commissions without factions. But to be free from speculation again, as it were, the question is quite resonant and related to the first official of the State, and I am taking the matter to heart after solving the problems that we have discussed here. Let us go to the section “Other Readings”. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the recall of members of the local councils]] Registration number 0911, Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich. Please. Kuzmenko, give the newspaper to your neighbor, then he'll tell you what you haven't read. You're looking at the last page.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u159	Adam Ivanovich, I was so inspired to listen to you that I missed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u160	That makes me happy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u161	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee considered draft Law No. 0911, introduced by the People's Deputies and adopted by the Supreme Council on 5 October 2004 as a basis. At that point, I remind you, in Ukraine, there was a totally top-level election system for local authorities. Therefore, the draft Law calling off a local council member was in line with the electoral system in force. At this point in time, there is no such reconciliation, because most of the deputies, I mean the city, the district councils are chosen by another principle -- party lists. Thus, this law for second reading makes no sense because it does not comply with the electoral legislation in force, and thus does not create a mechanism to call off the national MP. Therefore, after considering the problem, the committee proposes, and the draft decree is given to you, to withdraw from consideration the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the recall of members of the local councils]] Registration number 0911.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u162	Thank you, Sergey Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, the situation is understood, it is a transitional law, that is, we have received it as a descendant of the fourth calling, the situation has changed. Without a doubt, we have no reason to consider things that no longer exist in practice. I put to the vote Order No. 0911 on withdrawing from the draft Ukrainian Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on the recall of members of the local councils]] Please vote. [[13:31:50]] For 238. Thank you. Decision taken. Draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[on the prevention of unauthorized phone-interviewing]] Registration number 2288. But, my fellow Members, we have received quite a good point before this bill, and many comments from the Legal Authority. And on the Supreme Council's review, there's a bill on the same subject under number 2702. So I would like to postpone the consideration of this issue and ask the committee of profile, the Committee on Law Enforcement, to look at 2702 more, to look at the comments of the legal administration that will come to the committee, and then to make agreed proposals for second reading. There will be no committee of objections, am I addressing Gusarov Sergio Mikolaiovich? None. Then I am putting to the vote to postpone the consideration of the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the prevention of unsanctioned telephone conversations. Please vote on the transfer. [[13:33:27]] For 240 Thank you. Decision taken. The draft law is being heard to amend the article of the Third Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. [[on the establishment of contracts]] Registration number 1237, reports Cmir Yuri Pavlovich, a member of the Committee on Finance, Banking. Please, Yuri Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u163	Dear Head, my fellow Members, your opinion is proposed for consideration in the second reading of the draft Ukrainian law amending the article of the Third Order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs. The bill proposes to settle the question of the determination of the rate of government duty in the notary certificate of establishment contracts made by natural persons in the creation of farm societies and legal persons of other organizational forms, namely that for the certification of the notaries of the establishment, the founding contracts of the other establishment documents of the legal person, the State's duty should be managed at the rate of one non-taxable minimum of citizens' income. Thus, two amendments were made to the bill, which were taken into account by our committee. The first amendment of the National Deputy of Seminoga Anatolia Ivanovich, namely: the addition to the paragraph “is” of article 3, paragraph 3, of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, “Prostional Customs”, should be made in the following wording: “institutions, founding contracts, other documents of the legal person”. At the same time, according to article 87 of the Civil Code of Ukraine, the statute or founding treaty between the parties is the statute or the founding treaty between the parties, if the other is not established by law, and the institutions are established on the basis of the founding act. The second amendment is a proposal by national deputy Teryohin Sergey Anatoliyovich to increase the rate of government duties under article 3, paragraph 3, of the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs from the five hundred untaxed minimum of citizens' income to one untaxed minimum of citizens' income. On the basis of the above, the committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted in a second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u164	Thank you, Yuri Pavlovich. What is the reaction of the committee to the observations of the Legal Authority?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u165	The reaction of the Legal Authority was in the form of an expert decision reflecting a coalition. But these remarks were taken into account, and the amendment bill was adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u166	I see. Not all of them are included, especially the law taking effect from the day it was published. As it relates to the State Budget, according to the Budget Code, we can introduce it not earlier than on January 1, 2008. So I would like to propose a vote on the adoption of this law as a whole, so that it will be introduced on January 1, 2008. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u167	Roger that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u168	Vote. Once again, the introduction is from January 1st. [[13:37:23]] For the 220. Either you relax or you listen. Who's in charge of coming back? It's enough, we just didn't get it right. [[13:37:49]] For 235 We're back. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the article of the Third Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs, registration number 1237, with its entry into force on January 1, 2008. Please vote. [[13:38:21]] For 245 Copy that. Thank you. Have a seat. There is a bill of the Law on the Principles for the Elimination of Lands of Private Property Rights, registration number 2141. A member of the Committee, Vasil Silchenko, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u169	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. You will see a table of amendments to the draft Law on Fundamental Rights and Land Disposal, Lands of Private Property Rights, registration number 2741. In today’s market-based land relations, ownership of land cannot be absolute and must also perform social functions, as is done in other countries with a developed land market, that is to say, ensuring the realization of the social interests of citizens, the state, and the territorial communities. It is to solve these problems that we are now considering in the second reading and adoption of which is envisaged, I stress, the Ukrainian Code of Land. The bill was adopted at the first reading on January 11, this year. During this time, 84 comments were received from 13 national deputies, most of whom were included. These include 45 comments, partially -4, edited -12, rejected -23. Most of their comments were made. The comments concerned the title of the bill, the basic terms, the basis and terms of the ransom, the powers of the executive authorities and local self-government, the order and financing of the ransom, etc., and clarified the draft law adopted in the first reading. According to the results of the review, it is proposed to change the name of the Law to the Ukrainian Law on the Elimination of Lands of Private Property Rights by bringing it into line with the Earth Code. In addition, article 146 of the Land Code is proposed to be reprinted, taking into account the comments of the General Legal Authority. In view of the above, the committee proposes that the bill be adopted in a second reading, generally and as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u170	Thank you. Yes, dear fellows, let's go to the repairs. The absolute majority of them are accounted for. 8th, Staszewski is rejected, does not insist. The 10th is the same thing. Who among the national deputies whose amendment is not counted insists on her reasoning? There aren't any? Do any of the deputies have any comments about the amendments that are taken into account, but he has a different opinion and would like to stand up for them? Nor is it. Then let us vote on the change in the title of the law: “Removal, ” right? [[ransom]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u171	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u172	“On the removal of land of private property rights”. [[ransom]] Please vote change of name. [[13:42:11]] For-23 Yes, Chechetov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u173	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. This is a very complex bill, and some of the fundamentals are not clarified. It is a request to move it to a third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u174	Right. We can't take him to the third because we didn't take him to the second. Who's in favour of sending the bill for re-reading, please vote. Please vote for the second. [[13:43:03]] For the 220. Dear colleagues, I'm explaining the situation. If we don't vote now, there will be no law. For we don't vote in the second reading, you see voices, 23 only, and we don't send for the second again, so he's going to be rejected. Who in favour of returning to the vote on the matter of sending him for second reading again, please vote. [[13:43:45]] For 223 The law is rejected. No, just so that the experiment is clean, I'm sorry who's in favour of adopting the law in the second reading. In general, it's the law. [[13:44:14]] For-26 The law is rejected. The factions? Please, by the factions. The Party of Regions - 1, Block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine - 0, Socialists - 24, Communists - 0, non-fractional - 1. Let us turn to the chapter “To review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. The question is: the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, with the President's proposals of December 28, last year. Registration number 1248. President Zvaric's representative, Roman Mikhailovich, reports. Prepare Kuzmenko Sergey.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u175	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! The law, which is the subject of your consideration, was passed on December 14th last year, and cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine on such grounds as the law proposes to amend article 46 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. [[on the arrangements for the first session of the local council]] In particular, it is envisaged that if, at the time of the first session of the newly elected City Council, the Council elects a temporary presidency of three to five deputies, whose members alternately preside over the plenary sessions of the Council before the election of the Council Secretariat. According to the President of Ukraine, this position is not in line with the provisions of article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 42 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, under which the head of the relevant council presides over the board and the mandate of the head of the country begins at the time of the declaration by the appropriate village, the local election committee at the plenary for the decision on his election and ends at the time of the appointment of the other person elected in accordance with the law. [[of the village]] [[village]] In view of the above, the President of Ukraine proposes paragraph 2 of the first article of the second law, which has been signed, to read: “The first session of the newly elected village council shall be convened in accordance with the territorial electoral commission no later than two weeks after the registration of the newly elected council members in numbers which shall ensure the validity of the composition of the council in accordance with Article 45 of this Act. [[rural]] The first plenary session of the first session will be opened by the head of the designated territorial electoral commission, who will inform the board of the constituencies of the election of the deputies, as well as the summary of the elections of the respective rural, rural, urban head from the moment of the recognition of the credentials of the deputies for the new vocation and of the newly elected village, village, city head in accordance with article 42 of this law, shall preside over the plenary sessions of the first session of the newly elected head. Ladies and gentlemen, this formulation will allow us to get out of this legal coalition, which is now contained in this law, although also, let me draw attention to the much more important gaps that are contained in this law, I will not list them all. But if you read this law carefully, you will see for yourself that the law requires substantial work. In past elections, these coalitions have led to ambiguous situations in many local councils. So an offer to support the President of Ukraine. And for my part, I would also like to encourage the national MPs to work on this law to make it look more perfect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u176	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, let's take a closer look at this. I think I'm going to, I'm just going to ask questions-- and I think she's also bringing a tantrum. Look, we suggest that the first session is opened by the head of the territorial commission, and the first session is opened by the head. Opened it. Since the recognition of the credentials of the deputies for the new calling and the newly elected city head, the new head has presided over the plenary sessions of the first session of the newly elected head. But the newly elected head may not be after the first session, which the head discovered to the terrarian. What's next, who's in charge? Again it is said that he is opening, and that only one chosen by his head is to preside. And the head, according to practice, can't choose a year or two. How can you get out of such a colossal state? The answer is not correct, nor is this article proposed by the President. Please, what do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u177	Exactly, Adam Ivanovich, I pointed out that the answer is also not in the law that came to the President's signature, because he's causing more conflict than he's solving. Moreover, it is not in line with the corresponding distribution contained in article 141 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So I may have gone a little beyond my authority and attracted attention, I thought I was just obliged to do so, to the Ukrainian national deputies on these and other commissions contained in this basic law. And they really need to be solved. So neither one nor the other is allowing us to get out of these colossals. But the President of Ukraine can only make proposals to the wording contained in the law that came to his signature. He is not in a position to resolve the veto issues that are not contained in the law that came to his signature.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u178	I mean, you and I are the only ones who think, I get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u179	Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u180	Okay, thanks. Have a seat. Please, Sergey Kuzmenko, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u181	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee has considered both the President's proposals for this law and the contradictions that have arisen under bill 2250 and proposes to the Supreme Council to take fully into account the President's proposals and in the final edition to reproduce paragraph 2 of the first article of the second law entirely in the President's edition. At the same time, describing what to do if, well, there is no one to take the lead. That is, to resolve the situation that Adam Ivanovich now described. Thus, the President's proposal, the text given by the President, will be fully taken into account and we propose to vote on the bill, taking into account the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u182	Thank you. Thus, I am voting on the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, registration number 1248, taking into account the President's proposal. Please vote. Vote. [[13:52:27]] For 246 Thank you. The law was passed taking into account the President's proposals. The word is given to the head of the Military Commission, Jaroslav Suchy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, protocol number 2 of the meeting of the Counting Commission on March 22, 2007, had heard about the summary of the secret ballot for the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice. The ballot for the secret ballot on the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice included the nominations: Bondica Valerija Anatoliyovich, Zavalnjak Volodymira Vasilovich, Koleschenka Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Labunska Angelika Viktorovna. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Counting Commission established. Number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized as 450. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who received secret ballots is 231. The number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote is 231. The number of invalid ballots is 1. Last name, first name and first name of candidate number of votes: Bondik Valeriy Anatoliyovich is 229. [[Applause]] Volodymyr Vasilovic is 230. [[Applause]] Koleschenko Volodymyr Mikolajovic – 228. [[Applause]] Lobbon Angelica Victorian is 6. According to the second part of article 113 of the Constitution of Ukraine, article 8 of the Law on the Higher Council of Justice and Chapter 7 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee decided: to consider the members of the Supreme Council of Justice Bondik Valerija Anatoliyovich, Zavalnjak Vladimir Vasilovich, Koleshnenko Vladimir Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u184	Thank you. We accept the information. Let's welcome the members of the High Council of Justice. We welcome you and, Sergey Vasilovich, you no longer conspire with them, please, but allow them to work without your influence. I understand you're like the former head of the High Council. Okay. Welcome. Work for the benefit of the Ukrainian State. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on the Importation and around of Horse Alcohol, Wines and the Congregation for the Development of Vineyards, Gardening and Shrimpage is being considered, with the proposals of the President of Ukraine on 11 January of this year. Registration number 2101. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please. Michael Melniczuk, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u185	Honourable Ukrainian National Deputies, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on December 22, which is the subject of your consideration, cannot be signed by the President of Ukraine, on the basis of the following. I'm not going to read the President's proposals themselves, I think they're understandable. The law will have a clear impact on the income portion of the national budget on local budgets. In view of this situation, and also taking into account in particular that part three of article 27 of the Ukrainian Budget Code requires Parliament to adopt laws that affect the income portion of the budget to be officially published by 15 August of the year preceding the planned one. Otherwise, the rules of such laws should apply not earlier than the beginning of the budget period following the scheduled year. So that's why the President of Ukraine is making a proposal for your consideration, honourable national deputies, in a veto order that is meant to determine that this law takes effect as of January 1, 2008. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u186	Have a seat, please. There's no questions, is there? Melniczuk Jaroslav. Oh, I'm sorry. Mikhail Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u187	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. On 22 December 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the Act "On Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on the Importation and around of Cognac Spirit, Wines and the Congregation for the Development of Vineyards, Gardening, Shrines". On January 12, 2007, the President of Ukraine, using the veto, returned the law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I remind you that this law was designed to address the wine industry’s problem of reducing the raw materials base and the need to import wine from other countries. In the absence of the necessary quantities of raw material for the production of wine and cognac and for the purpose of ensuring their steady release, it was suggested that the conditions for the importation of imported wine products should be set. The essence of the President's proposal is to postpone the deadline for the introduction of the law, namely, not 10 days from the date of publication, but from 1 January 2008, because he believes that there has been a breach of the budget rules and the Ukrainian Tax System Act. At a meeting of the Committee on Finance, banking on February 21, it was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the law in general, taking into account the President’s proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u188	Thank you. Thus, fellow believers, it is clear here as it is in God's day. You and I have slightly exceeded our authority when we passed the law and wrote that it goes into effect 10 days after signing it, and we failed to consider that similar laws should be introduced from the new financial year. That's why the president's comments are correct and the position of the profile committee is heard. I am voting on the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on imports and circulation of horse alcohol, wineries and the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening and hops, taking into account the President's proposals, i.e. with its entry into force on January 1, 2008. [[Registration number 2101]] Please vote. [[13:59:38]] For-31 There's obviously not enough voices. The law is rejected. There is a question about the Ukrainian Law on amending some Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of transparent mechanisms for the sale of land, the acquisition of land leases, with proposals by the President dated 30 January of this year. Registration number 2520. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric will report, please. Bevanka Valeria to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u189	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u190	I'm sorry. I'm going on. Roman Mikhailovich, I'm sorry. I can't see how many hours, but I'm going to continue for 15 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u191	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Let me first of all state that the President of Ukraine fully and in principle supports the need to regulate property rights issues. the rights of ownership and the right to use land of public and municipal value. property, more loyally, on competitive grounds, guaranteeing ownership rights to land. However, the President of Ukraine returned the law adopted by the Supreme Council on 12 January this year, which is the subject of consideration, coming out, in particular, of the fact that he cannot agree with the mechanism for resolving the issues mentioned, as proposed by the law that came to the signature. In particular, the law under consideration provides that the rental of land not for the rural purpose of state and municipal property for the construction of buildings at the expense of state or local budgets for the construction of social objects in the execution of international agreements is carried out in accordance with articles 118 and 123 of the Ukrainian Code of Land. Thus, according to the requirements of the articles in question, leases will be made solely on the basis of the drafts, as provided for in these articles. Rather, the law does not correspond to article 124 of the Ukrainian Land Code, which provides for the transfer of land to citizens and legal persons under projects of withdrawal only if they change their destination and land of supply. Moreover, the above-mentioned provision is also contrary to article 16 of the Land Rental Act, according to which the transfer of land to which the land is defined in nature, i.e. in the area, into a lease without changing its purpose, is carried out without the design of its removal. Secondly, the law that came to the signature is proposed to prohibit the entry into force until the date of entry into force of the Land Market Act, the change in the target destination of agricultural land and the introduction of land within the boundaries of the population, except for land on which the general plans of the population are approved, as well as to extend the grounds for the sale of land of state or municipal property for sale to business entities on competitive grounds. The provisions proposed by law do not, according to the President of Ukraine, comply with articles 14 and 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which guarantee ownership of land, establishes the right of everyone to dispose of his property, as well as with the third section of article 22 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, which, when adopting new laws or amending existing laws, does not allow for a narrowing of the content and scope of existing rights and freedoms. And thirdly, the law under consideration introduces the acquisition of the right to rent freely from the construction of the land of non-agricultural or municipal property by citizens and legal persons solely on competitive principles through the conduct of land trades in the form of auctions. This law does not define, inter alia, the arrangements for conducting land trades, their contractors, the possibility of auctioning for only one application, and so on. So that's basically what's left of the balance sheet. Finally, the law uses the term “market valuation of land”. However, its definition is not determined by the law that came upon the signature. There are other differences and inaccuracies. In summary of the above, the President of Ukraine is proposing a law that has been signed and that is the subject of your consideration, honourable colleagues, to reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u192	Yes, thank you. Have a seat, please. Valérie Bevezenko, head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u193	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. On 13 March 2007, the Committee at its meeting considered the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and considered that the comments on land leases, solely on the project of their removal, the determination of the starting price of land lease rights, and the proposals to prohibit the change in the target destination of agricultural land and the introduction of land within the population areas in the absence of approved general plans of the population, merited attention. Taking into account the above, as well as the findings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, pursuant to article 130 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the Committee proposes that the designated Ukrainian Law, registration number 2520, be sent to the Main Committee, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of agar policy and land relations. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u194	Thank you. Please sit down, Valery Fedorovich. Let's be clear. I just want to remind you of the story. You and I have passed this law on the insistent demands of the BUT faction. True, when the President vetoed, they did not yet have a united opposition. Perhaps he would have done otherwise by now. But what I'm surprised is that the BUT faction is missing and doesn't want to stand up for what it fought for quite hard and hard to fight when we passed that law. That's right, for history. I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the law number 2520 “On amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the introduction of transparent mechanisms for the sale of land, the acquisition of land leases”. The President's proposal for a rejection is being voted out, and I'm asking you to identify yourself. [[14:07:09]] For the Only three national deputies support this idea. No decision taken. I'm betting on the committee's proposal to put this bill to work on the committee. Please vote. Please vote. The minister tells us how to raise wages. [[14:07:39]] For 208 Who's to come back? To the vote. [[14:08:01]] For 216 This confirmation of the justice of what I have said, that involuntary work leads to the fact that the ideas for which they have fought so much have been put to so much force, the "wheat" has come out, sorry for the non-parliamentary expression. It's off the books, it's off the books. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Higher Education Act with proposals by the President of Ukraine since 17 March 2006 is under consideration. The year has passed. Registration number 0809. Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u195	Dear Adam Ivanovich. First of all, allow me to make a small replica of your comment on the signature by the President of Ukraine of the previous law before the formation of a united opposition. I assure you that the President of Ukraine is not guided by any other motive other than those outlined in the proposals that he is sending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in order of the veto.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u196	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u197	So I'd ask you to stay away from these ideas.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u198	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. That's what I wanted to hear. That makes me happy. Please, by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u199	To keep you from thinking about the position of the President of Ukraine. He's going to put them solely in the proposals he's directing in the veto. Now, with regard to the law that came upon your signature, which is the subject of your consideration, the honourable Ukrainian national deputies. The proposals made by the President of Ukraine are based on a number of specific points. First. The amendments proposed by this law to article 34 of the law, which came to be signed, are intended, inter alia, to refer to the competence of a scholar for a higher educational institution to approve his residence permit. This, according to the President of Ukraine, is not in line with the second part of article 32, paragraph 2, of the law that came upon the signature or, more faithfully, the basic law according to which the approval of the state registration of a higher educational institution falls under the authority of the head of this institution. In this regard, the President of Ukraine proposes that this rule be ruled out. Second, paragraph 29 of the Act amends article 49 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act. In particular, it is proposed to reduce the maximum educational effort of higher education staff. According to the Ukrainian Ministry of Finance, the introduction of this standard will require more than 490 million dollars a year. In view of this, and also taking into account the same arguments that I have made with regard to one of the previous laws that you have considered, coming out of the disposal of article 27 of the Code of Budget, the President of Ukraine proposes that this paragraph be deleted. Thirdly, the amendments to articles 50 and 51 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act provide for the extension to scientific workers of the rights and obligations established by this law for teachers and educators. However, article 46 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act does not apply to participants in the educational process. It should also be noted that the rights and duties of scientific workers are defined by article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Scientific and Technological Activities. In connection with the President of Ukraine, he proposes that chapters 30 and 31 of the first law be deleted. Four. Article 56 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, paragraph 36 of the Act, is supplemented by new parts, according to which, if necessary, a graduate of a higher education institution may be assigned to work by his consent. It also guarantees an appropriate salary and so forth. According to previous estimates by the Ministry of Finance, Ukraine will have a budget of 2.7 billion dollars a year. So, again, based on the same reasoning as previously quoted, the President of Ukraine proposes paragraph 36 of the first law of Ukraine, which came to the conclusion of the exclusion. Fifthly, paragraph 38 of article 63 of the Higher Education Act states that a higher education institution of state and municipal property is self-managed with incomes and other incomes derived from the provision of paid services by law. This includes the right to open current and deposit accounts in banks in accordance with banking law, to retain funds in bank deposits, the right to acquire and use assets on the basis of contracts, etc. Instead, this rule is not in line with part one of article 48 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, which stipulates that Ukraine uses the treasury form of the Ukrainian State Budget, which provides for the State Treasury to carry out operations with the state budget. In view of this, the President of Ukraine proposes in paragraph 38 of the second paragraph of the law the words “the right to open current and deposit accounts in banks according to banking legislation, to keep funds in bank deposits” should be excluded. Six. Paragraph 39 of the Act amends article 64 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, in particular paragraph 2 of the First Sub-paragraph, proposing that the central authorities of the executive branch be empowered to establish their own standards of material, financial and other provision of higher education institutions. The implementation of the proposed norm will result in uncontrolled use of the country’s public budget for this purpose. Considering that, under article 18 of the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, the definition of such standards is referred to the powers of a special central authority in the field of education and science, the President of Ukraine proposes to exclude this rule of law. In addition, paragraph 6 of paragraph 3 of the third paragraph of the Act suggests that teaching and teaching staff of higher education institutions be promoted to the scientific level of a candidate or a doctor of science by 15 per cent and 25 per cent, respectively, if the availability of a scientific degree is not subject to the qualifications required for the position of an employee. It should be noted that, according to part two of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Paying for Work, the conditions of pay for employees, institutions and organizations financed from the budget are determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this regard, and bearing in mind that the conditions for payment of salaries and scientific staff of state scientific institutions are also determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine proposes paragraph 6 of paragraph 3 of chapter thirty-ninth of the first law, which came upon the signature, to be drafted as follows: “Pedagogical and science-pedagogical staff of higher education institutions are paid for the degree of scientific and academic qualifications as determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” Please support the proposal made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u200	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Please sit down. Vitaly Semenovich, head of the committee for science and education.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u201	Dear National Deputies! On December 19, 2006, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Science and Education, in a joint meeting with the Ministry of Education, with the College and the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences, with the Council of Rectors of Ukraine, reviewed the bill once again and in general agreed with the President's remarks. I'm only going to mention the moment that this law was first voted on February 3, 2004. This law, already imposed on it by the second veto, is cooled down in principle in all that was possible. There's nothing left but general positions. Therefore, at least it has been accepted in the form it is said to have remained, and there are some “horns and cleavages” left. I will note that the committee, together with the Ministry of Education and Science, together with the Academy and the Board of Rectors, has carefully considered the President’s proposals for the first, second, third, fourth and sixth, and has proposed that the proposal be rejected. To reject the offer of a fifth because it is the norm of the basic law. We are now amending the basic law on higher education. So the fifth proposal proposed by the President is the norm of the basic law. We can’t just throw it out of the law that works. And I wanted to say, dear colleagues. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that since this law has been considered over a long period of time, paragraph 43, paragraph 2, has lost its relevance. Article 64 “Financing of higher education institutions” provides for funding at the expense of the state budget of professionals with higher education in the amount needed to provide for every 10,000 people. Not less than 100 students at first and second levels of accreditation and 180 students at third and fourth levels of accreditation. To date, at the third, fourth levels of accreditation, the Ministry has already issued these figures. As far as technology and colleges are concerned, it's just not real for 2007-2008. The Committee therefore proposes that paragraph 43, sub-paragraph 2, be edited as follows: the position of the fourth part of article 64 in the part concerning the third level, the fourth level of accreditation shall take effect from 1 January 2008, and the part concerning the first and second levels of accreditation shall take effect from 1 January 2010. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u202	Thank you. Please come to the rostrum. Let me get this straight. If you're saying that the fifth point of the President's remarks was wrong, sorry, it got here because it's in the basic law, it's logical to accept the President's proposal and not write that fifth point because it is. And then we wouldn't have any gloom with you, we agree with all the President's proposals, because the fifth point, by rejecting it, remains in the basic law. But then the President won't be able to veto again, because we'll agree with everything. You yourself say that the fifth point is taken from here because it is in another law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u203	Dear colleagues, I don't care if it was or not. Give me an answer. Is that the norm in some law? Please, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u204	Catherine Semenovna speaks correctly. The fact is that the current Higher Education Act provides for the right of higher education institutions to open accounts on their own, including deposit accounts. Just by accident, I think it's technically wrong. We haven't changed that norm, but it, Roman Mikhailovich, Roman Mikhailovich, is suddenly subject to the veto of the already established standard. I mean, this one. No, Roman Mikhailovich, well, that's wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u205	Roman Mikhailovich, what do you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u206	And as for 180 students per 10,000 population, Adam Ivanovich, I don't think this standard can be touched. We only went out to 160 students, and we haven't gotten to her yet.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u207	176 gave us the Ministry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u208	163.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u209	Please turn on the microphone in the bed. It's probably working. You tell me, I'll hear. It's working.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u210	It's working. Dear colleagues, indeed, this rule is contained in the basic law. And I can see that there are some technical problems here. But in any case, the norm that is now being adopted, that is, if it remains in the basic law, it is not in line with the Budget Code. I mean, where am I going with this? In any case, you will be violating the Budget Code, which prohibits other forms of service than through the State Treasury.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u211	Right. Dear colleagues, I'll explain it to you again, I'll explain it to all of us again, and now I'm going to call the minister again. The committee suggests that we accept all the comments except the fifth. If we accept it now, the committee, I'm sorry, has absolutely all the legitimate grounds to veto again, because we accept it in a different way than he suggests. If you're saying that these remarks are groundless, because the rule of law is working, you have to accept the President's proposal and take this sub-item out of here, because you're saying that he's in the law that works. [[B in m in s a l in]] That's how it works. You don't need a new editor like that! Leave it in this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u212	Okay. I'm going to put the committee's decision to a vote, and you know how this ends. Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, do you understand the situation? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u213	What do I mean? As we move towards a change in our legislation, by standardizing it with the norms of international law and European integration, we have made a perfectly normal law that would give autonomy to our universities today. Well, we can't go to a university where 150 doctors of science don't just approve a state-of-the-art census, we trust that college, I'm sorry, and we don't trust the university. Mother’s deposit accounts. What is it? So I think Adam Ivanovich is basically right, well we're going to be three more years of these changes, and in these changes we have student self-government, and licensing, and accreditation. We need this law! Today, the pseudosciences of Ukraine will be swept away by a wave. So I want to be honest, let's take these presidential proposals into account so that he doesn't have a veto, Vitaly Seminovich, and then we start working on a new tour, because that law isn't there or here. Catherine of Simeon! Well, we didn't make that mistake with you, it was done there. And as a result, we're going to bury him again, and there's not going to be an over-the-counter education index, and nothing will happen. Let's vote and then we will.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u214	No, I'm telling him he'll get the word. Don't argue! You're okay. Either you want the law, or you want what you want. Please, Vitaly Semenovich, tell me, and I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u215	Adam Ivanovich, I would like to point out to the representative of the President that this rule has nothing to do with the execution of the treasury. As it was, it's going to stay. The opening of deposit accounts existed in the past year, and this had no effect on treasury services. This is wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-22-m0.u216	Thank you. Have a seat. The committee remained in its position, although the minister had to be supported. But I'm putting to the vote what the committee is proposing without the proposals that sounded extra from the committee. I'm just making those proposals to the committee that are in the president's comments. No extras. I am voting on the Committee's opinion on the agreement of the first, second, third, fourth, sixth proposals by the President and not to accept the fifth proposal. Bill number 0809. [[14:25:59]] For 240 Over to 240, copy. Yes, thank you. There's a break until 4:00. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed.
