ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, those who listen to us are watching. It's September 20th. In accordance with the Supreme Council ruling adopted by the fourth number, we are holding a Parliament meeting today, which is essentially dedicated to presenting the State Budget, the State Budget Project for the following year. Before I go to the questions and to use the time for sharing the information provided by the Rules. Please prepare for the registration of deputies. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:24]] 260 national deputies are present. The morning session is open. Today the noun is sick, but let's still welcome Vladimir Seminovich Boyka, who is one of the most authoritative I think no one will be offended by such a statement by the deputies of the Supreme Council, the Hero of Ukraine. Let us send him warm greetings, at least in the form of our applause. [[Applause]] In line with the decision of the Conciliation Council that we have held today, we have time for statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages and speeches by the national MPs. Please log in from factions. Five minutes. Now from the deputies, please. I mean, in individual order. From factions we have a sequence that turns out to be socialists, a party of regions, communists, and then in individual order. Please, Vladimir, from the faction of the Socialists, include Sergey of Redfoot. Please, his microphone's out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u2	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, respected Ukrainian veterans! You, my colleagues, well remember that the question of restoring the central authority to the social protection of war veterans, military service, and work has been raised repeatedly in this room. Disposed by today's President several days before the 60th anniversary of the Great Victory of the State Committee in Veterans, owing to the national pressure and the hard decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he was in February of this year, still renewed by the government's decree. And the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on September 11 gave him the opportunity to start his work. Yet, Victor Yushchenko again puts the veterans in line, on September 17, signing a decree to stop the government’s action. His motive and reasoning are designed, drawn to the ears. Even claims have been made that the Committee of Veterans can significantly undermine the security of the state. We war veterans realize that in Ukrainian politics now almost everyone has become a part of the fighting and claim special credits to the Fatherland. But there must be something sacred. And we appeal not only to the mind, but also to the heart, by the way, to the president's, too. In the end, someone in this country has to systematically, not for another pierar, deal with veterans, war invalids, officers, freed or retired, children of war, at last. Because what we have is no longer political technology or domestic intrigue -- it is already close to the genocide of the most vulnerable part of society. The entire nation has long been appreciating its chief advocate of Grizzen as a great misunderstanding, because, above all, he raised the noise and the first one on the Cabinet of Ministers and tells us everywhere that this committee is not needed by a state that replaces it with a department of the Ministry of Defence. It is not clear that the Ministry of Defence has not decided or will not address the issue of social protection for those who have finished leaving the military service. Not just me, a man of the military, must be convinced that the defence ministry should not deal with issues that distract us from the decisions of the basic functions. Thus, the state’s housing program for liberated military personnel, their employment, stopped. Please listen to the numbers. We have a series of over 17,000 homeless officers, and these people, 80 percent of them, are in line for more than ten years. And this year, when we compare it to 2005, we get 1,700 flats, this year up to 12 units. It's like our army doesn't know what to do or what to sell. It's not even political anymore, it's pathological mercantile. And the constitutional guarantor may have forgotten that there are still veterans of other military formations, internal forces, and foreign service on the street. By the way, it's the same service that Mr. Helletay runs, including. This is how the prestige of the military profession is finally lost in our country. In general, in view of the tightening of the situation surrounding a similar area in the country, veteran organizations are more organized in their actions. I have been instructed by the leaders of the major community associations of veterans to prove the start of the campaign: “Let's get up, veterans!” under the secretariat of the President of Ukraine. Veteran protests have pure social coloring, but before the elections themselves, they are politicized. Therefore, we invite all the healthy political forces to join us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u3	Thank you. From the Party of the Regions, Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov says, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u4	Respectable compatriots! There are days left before the election, and in the last days before the vote, we have received information that is already being prepared for mass provocations during the elections by the orange political forces, and they will do their utmost to falsify them in constituencies where the Party of Regions has considerable support for the electorate. Similar information comes to us from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Zaporozhye, Lugansk, and Donetsk. Our political opponents have developed a special scenario to break elections in the districts of the South East and the Centre. The oranges instruct their representatives in election committees not to take part in the work of the committees on September 30th, nor did they sign voting protocols that would lead to the invalidity of the elections in these regions. And, of course, in the future, it will lead to long - term lawsuits. And notice, all of this prepares the people of Ukraine for the so-called “Democrat Command”. Therefore, if such information came from only one source, it could not be taken so seriously, but similar statements come from most eastern and southern areas, which once again confirms that a mass political action against the Party of the Regions is being prepared. We're sure that these actions aren't made up in local headquarters, and the plan of action comes from Kiev, because sociology shows that our political opponents are too far behind the coalition forces. Therefore, the pro-presidential team has launched a scenario that recognizes the results of the early elections as invalid, realizing that in the new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, most oranges will not have any. This is also confirmed by the President of Ukraine's appeal to the Constitutional Court to the unconstitutionality of a number of provisions of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Elections of People's Deputies. The President's position is not consistent at all, because he signed a law that was adopted by the Supreme Council on June 1, 2007 and did not veto it, and now calls on the Constitutional Court to consider the constitutionality of a series of articles that determine that those Ukrainian citizens who are abroad and who have returned to Ukraine less than three days before the vote have no right to vote. All of this is done in order for us all to understand with you that, in order to vote on the passports of those Ukrainians who are at work in Europe. We do not rule out that if the Constitutional Court postpones the consideration of this Presidential appeal and the decision, the unconstitutionality of these provisions will be made after the election, this could lead to a reversal of the results of the presidential election. The script's pretty simple. If the Constitutional Court decides to refer Yashchenk after September 30, then many citizens will go to court. And these courts will accept that these citizens were unable to fully exercise their electoral rights during the vote, since they returned to Ukraine less than three years before the vote. Taking into account the bias of the judges of the administrative courts who have been appointed, you know, the President of Ukraine, we do not exclude that a decision will be taken that obliges them to abolish the results of elections in individual offices or districts, or throughout the country. When the results of the election do not give rise to opposition and the President who leads the opposition. Therefore, the faction “Regions” requires the Constitutional Court to consider and rule no later than 30 September. Secondly, in view of the alarming reports from the polling stations, as a result of instructions from the election board members not to sign the general electoral ballots, we request the law enforcement authorities and the prosecutor's office to review this information and carry out appropriate preventive work. The faction of the Party of the Regions also invites all the political forces that will participate in the elections to sign the treaty in order to prevent the work of the electoral commissions from being stabilized. If we don't sign such a document, by some political power, we will consider it, and it will mean that they are consciously preparing to break the election in individual districts and throughout the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u5	Thank you. Valentin Grigorovich Matviev is speaking from the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, today in Ukraine there is a very disturbing situation, and with every day there is an increasing rise in the fire of opposition, aggression, I would say, political cynicism. Here's to ensure that this tragedy is not caused by our political opponents, political opponents, condemning Yushchenk's anti-constitutional decrees to hold consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Communists have found it appropriate to take part in these electoral races. We hope that in spite of the destructive intentions of the oranges, they, I mean these elections, will serve to bring together all the patriotic and progressive democratic forces to counter the threat of nationalism, chaos and anarchy, the preservation of Ukraine as a single and truly independent state. By usurping the power of nationalist chauvinists and oligarchs led by President Yushchenk, I would say purposefully, and consistently do everything in order to definitively destroy the constitutional principles of democracy, and in this we see with you virtually every day when we observe, in particular, those fervent speeches by President Yushchenk in support of one political power in these electoral races. Under the constant control of the United States administration, its overlords are being hit by a coup against the Basic Law of the State, Parliamentarianism is being destroyed, the judicial and law - enforcement systems are being destroyed. The political and socio-economic course imposed by the nation's nationalists is certainly not going to do any good, it's going to lead to a breakthrough. With President Yushchenk and his orange "loved friends" these illegal, anti-constitutional, extra-constitutional elections will cost taxpayers, as we already know, from the budget, 365 million dollars will be allocated for this. But as you and I can see, it's just that visible one that I would say, a very small, very small part of this electoral iceberg. Billions of dollars are going today, our honourable voters, as you will excuse me, for political advertising, for the pre-election advertising of those in the electoral process that will today fight for seats in parliament. We see how much money is spent on printed media, on boards, voter bribes: these are packets, journals, different rolls, which are, in particular, distributed to our voters today in Kiev and, in particular, in the Podil district of the city. To that end, we have many examples with which the citizens of Kiev turn. I want to draw the attention of our respected citizens to yet another problem. It's to take a question like a demonstration of political roles on television. I'll just give you one digit, one second, I'm sorry, this kind of commercial on the Inter Channel costs a thousand two hundred dollars from 20 to 22 hours. If you take a forty-second roller coaster, it's 40-48 thousand per single, and it's only spent on one video, 48,000 dollars. So I want our voters to ask these politicians where the money came from? Give an answer to the people. Thus, the Communists turn to the widest range of our citizens, not to allow themselves to be reinvigorated by antinational orange forces. We are sure of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u7	Please, MPs, you wanted the faction, didn't you? Vladimir Mikolaiovich Olijnik of the faction of Block Timoshenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences and those watching today’s meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! The question under consideration is important today. And a little bit of politics is misleading our voters, claiming that the session itself is illegal. And there is no need to consider the issue until a new composition of the Supreme Council is formed, but simple voters need to know the truth. The President of Ukraine, who is enshrined in the Constitution as a guarantor of the Constitution, must guarantee the rights, freedoms of citizens and guarantee the full functioning of all constitutional bodies in the State. Including, if the President of Ukraine were to follow the Constitution clearly, he would certainly know well that Parliament is operating continuously until Ukraine's new parliament is formed. Why is this matter important? Because the adoption of the budget is not just a political and legal issue, it is an important question to answer many of the questions of ordinary citizens: and what will be the pensions, which will be the salaries, which will be financed by social programs, what rules will Ukraine's economy develop and the budget be filled? And the budget, this is a serious document that can't be accepted later, quickly. This document, which is prescribed in the law, has its own procedure. And today we have a budget presentation. And, of course, the budget itself is not a simple document, it usually never brings satisfaction to everyone. It's a search for optimal compromise. But if we start this procedure on time today, we can get out of the budget from January 1st and it will work. On this basis, the budgets of district, district, city, rural councils will be established and will allow the country to work fully under the rules. And that growth in the economy that is, and it's budgeted, it's going to be earmarked for pensions, wages, three times the increase. Controversies can go as far as possible with regard to the level of promotion, but they will be implemented. And if we just follow the path that Victor Andriyovich Yushchenko and those who are not in the hall, the political forces that ignore the Supreme Council's activities, we should let the voters know, from January 1st what they promise will not happen. Because the President, if he doesn't go ahead and sign the decision, and more specifically, the State Budget Act, it's impossible to implement it. And that's why we're going to give you all these promises, they could be converted somewhere in the middle of next year. For all of us know that not only did the campaign start, but the outcome of the election, it is certain that they will be disgruntled and politically challenged. And we know what spikeriads are. So in this respect, we do what is right in the law. They must defend the interests of the simple electorate, approve the budget as to how they should operate in a civilized country when changing power or early elections. This Parliament does its job, another comes to correct, make changes, raise, some social priorities change, but it is not possible to act criminally, by promising people improvements, to do nothing in this respect in Parliament, because only through law, only through the budget can this be implemented. Now they're doing what they're doing and they're doing what they're doing. I'll tell you, in Cherkishka, they're so busy that, practically, the governor, the head of the district government and all the heads of the district government administration are headed by the headquarters. He came as a national deputy to the Kanow region, and there was no one to talk to. Head of the District Administration, Chief of Staff, Head of Staff of Our Ukraine, First Deputy Head of the BUT Headquarters. There's no authority in the area. Everybody's running. Everyone is convinced instead of convincing them that they will be better at managing matters if they are again entrusted with authority. It's not just an administrative resource, it's a dangerous step towards forging elections. Because when you put a problem in front of the official, or you give a result, that's your problem in the way you do, or you're going to file an application for release, they're definitely going to drive any official into a dead end. And sometimes he goes to such things as criminal matters, which should be condemned on loving political schedules. I think we should show by our work today that we respect the Constitution. And we have to answer those who ignore today, let them explain it to people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u9	Thank you, Volodymyr Mikolaiovich. The word is Miroshnichenko, followed by Kuzmenko and Matviev, and Cibenko, and then we are done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u10	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues. Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I am now moved by the alarming trend that has been caused by another attempt, in my view, to involve the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in political processes. You all know that the Constitutional Court has accepted and is considering three, more specifically, two submissions concerning the Ukrainian Law on Elections of National Deputies. The first two submissions were considered in the open regime – the submission of the President of Ukraine, the submission of Ukrainian national deputies. What is the great danger that the Constitutional Court has accepted and considered these matters? What happens when he makes a decision after the day of the vote, my colleague, Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov, has already said. There may be attempts to reverse the results of the elections, and the country will, in effect, continue to be in a state of great political crisis. But there is another trend that relates to the fact that the Constitutional Court directly addresses these issues because the Constitution of Ukraine determines that only laws can regulate the implementation of electoral rights of citizens. The electoral process is on its way. The law defined the procedures by which these rights should be implemented. But at the same time, if the individual provisions of the Ukrainian Law “On Elections of People’s Deputies” are not recognised, this order will change and the Constitution will be violated accordingly. That is why, in a similar question in 2002, when a constitutional submission was made by the subject to the Constitution, it was also submitted that the individual provisions of the Electoral Law should be declared unconstitutional, then the Constitutional Court was suspended because it said: “Whatever the Constitutional Court decides, this will affect the conduct of the electoral process.” Accordingly, the Constitutional Court will be subject to a political relationship that is not permitted, nor to the Constitution of Ukraine, nor to the Act of Ukraine on the Constitutional Court. Trouble over the cessation of these matters has been expressed. Unfortunately, it has not yet been considered, and no decision has been made. I stress once again that individual politicians, political forces are trying to push the Constitutional Court, get a decision, and thus influence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u11	Thank you. Sergey Kuzmanko. After him, Zibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u12	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Sergey Kuzmenko, Soccer faction, Zaporozhye. I would like to begin by pointing out how extremely positive is the panic that exists in the orange series and the passenger movements that they produce under the influence of various factors. This only says that they are as well as we know that the outcome of the elections is determined: if the elections are fair, democratic and transparent, the coalition will remain in the same room, increasing its size, and it is pleased that even our opponents indirectly acknowledge this fact. At the same time, I would like to say about such a pretense or complacency of our political not even, I would say, political opponents from the orange state, I am talking about the Yulia Timoshenko Block. Justice slogans, Ukrainian breakthrough slogans. I don't know what part of the clothes she breaks into her house and is going to break through with Ukrainian citizens, it's a matter of talking to porters, but I think these slogans just once show the depth of the moral decline of the members of the bloc. We're not going far. I'm a motorist who worked at this factory for over 30 years. There is a Minister of Industrial Policy in the Hall in the 96th year, Comrade Gureev, and he can confirm what I say: the independent Western assessors in the 96th year estimated 150 million people to be in the car factory. When a joint venture was established, the Korean firm cashed this 150 million dollars in cash. For the establishment of a joint venture, $50 by 50. In 2002, the company’s profits were estimated to be as high as 10 million U.S. dollars. And they sold it to today's owner. The owner did not have the money available, and he received a seven per cent loan in Eximbank in a difficult way. Tell me, entrepreneurs, which one of you can get that credit to buy this factory? The budget was thus damaged by at least 140 million people. dollars! And when Ukrainian citizens give you T-shirts, T-shirts and all the other gifts from B-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T. Therefore, evaluate correctly the actions that make orange.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u13	Thank you. Peter Stepanovich Zibenko is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u14	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear voters, the country before the elections, and then they promise everyone and promise so much that no budget will be drawn. And most speculations are around the problem of social protection for veterans. As a politician, I have my own features of the election period. When politicians of all levels begin to love veterans more than themselves, when veterans have more advocates than veterans themselves, this at the same time clearly speaks of elections. I'm particularly worried about that. Just one example. Yesterday, I was in the city of Kirovograd, meeting with the voters. There I was shown cards from the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, that it would protect a category of veterans like the children of war. What kind of cheese did you have to borrow your eyes to lie so openly? I just want to remind my colleagues and voters of one thing that's really hot. And it is that when the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006, the Budget Act introduced 25 per cent housing and utility benefits. At the same time, the then government, headed by Julia Volodymyrny Timoshenko, was commissioned from the second half of the same year to apply for the basic pension for the status of a child of war. So this government led by Mrs. Timoshenko has failed, I would say criminally failed to carry out this commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and today this policy, this transition promises people that it will protect them. By the way, the 2008 National Budget project of Ukraine provides for the introduction of payments, symbolically speaking, but nevertheless, to all children of war, starting on January 1, 2008. Here is the price of those promises that some politicians make zealous choices before the elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u15	Thank you. We've finished, that is, we've used the time spent announcing applications, reasoning for a reason. A brief summary of the suggestions to be made. Well, first of all, there was a question about the need to review the draft budget for the following year. I want to say that obviously no one in society has any doubts, and that is to say that there are MPs present today at a meeting that, as a result of the elections, if any, the current coalition will strengthen its positions, and so today it is logical to consider the draft budget for the following year. This corresponds to the Budget Code, the procedure provided for in the relevant legislation, in the Constitution in particular. And so it's logical that we're looking at this document today. All the talks are about an alarming situation that resulted from the political campaign, preparations for the elections. But this concern is expressed in preparation for the falsification of elections. I could fully join all those thoughts. I can tell you that there are not as many choices being prepared today as there are forging them, as there is no real possibility of non-recognition. And that's why our e session solves another problem: we disarm the provocateurs with the possibility of referring to 90 articles of the Constitution on Parliament's inefficiencies. It is fully effective and can make all decisions provided for in the Constitution. So we have to, well, in this respect, I mean, protect the provocateurs, calm them down, I'd say. The provocations will not pass, but they are not innocent, I emphasize, not innocent. And it's a shame to say that, unfortunately, the President today poses a great threat to statehood, to the structures of power. And from that we have to go to the electorate and appreciate what is being done today and the individual decrees, actions and, even, the media today, a plan of action to ensure the President's demands for the holding of the parliamentary elections for the term. I know very well that the President's Secretariat is going to come out, say that someone's made it up. But the content of this document and the validation of it in practice by the practical actions of specific officials suggests that this plan is absolutely concrete, which is governed today by the President's Secretariat, the administration in place and the President himself. This is indeed a very disturbing thing, because it's about destroying the foundations of statehood, the tremendous threat that this whole election adventure and not just the elections poses to the state. I'm saying this as a coalition representative, including, and as the Head of the Supreme Council, who doesn't care about Ukraine's future. And by making so much effort over the years before we create institutions of power that correspond to the status of a democratic, independent, sovereign state, and now we see that everything is thrown under the feet of a particular group, which is governed not by the Constitution, not by laws, but by its concepts and gives it to the President, and in action, its specific materials, which, let's say, are being put into practice. This is very serious, and I would ask everyone to be prepared to cut off those provokers who are trying to destroy Ukrainian statehood today. Provokers live in an artificial world that they created, forgetting that the world's relationship is alive, real and related to the citizen's relationship to, and the state, the population to power, and so forth. There's no such thing, we don't see this interaction, and meeting with voters on the spot shows that people are worried, they understand perfectly that this artificial world has absolutely no relation to the interests of citizens. He only has to do with the interests of those who sit on the street of the Bank and the officials who are assigned by them to the top floor of the entire vertical government, which he considers to be some sort of opposition. So I'm taking you seriously to address today's issue, and I'm looking at the approach taken to prevent the provocations from being established in society, the provocative methods of governance to dominate the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, because that poses a threat to the existence of the State as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal for a presentation in the order of day, including the presentation of the draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine. It is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the proper time, as provided by the Constitution. And in view of the fact that we are able to proceed to this consideration, I give the floor to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Finance, Azarov Mikola Janovich. And with regard to the Rules, I want to say, it's suggested: we've been looking at the Conciliation Council today, and these proposals are in line with our general Rules, and they're like, in 30 minutes, Mikola Janovich is doing a report, and within 15 minutes, and he's got 15 minutes to respond. For a further 15 minutes, the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs will report, after which 60 minutes of discussion will be proposed, and if we accept this document, and we don't take any decision, or if we need to clarify any nuances, we can take the appropriate decision. For the time being, the Rules are being fulfilled, and Mikola Janović Azarov has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u16	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Respectable People's Deputies. In accordance with article 37 of the Budget Code, the coalition Government, at its meeting on 11 September 2007, approved the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2008. On 14 September, the Government submitted a draft budget to the Supreme Council within the time limit set by the Budget Code. In accordance with article 39 of the Budget Code, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine is required to submit it in plenary meeting no later than five days. That is, today's consideration of the draft budget room is not a political move, not a pirate campaign, as our opponents have said, which have forgotten that there is legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine, but our direct responsibility. I would like to point out that the adoption of the budget is a very difficult procedure. It has a strict stage in budgetary legislation. The 2008 draft budget is aimed at accelerating the level and quality of life of our people, strengthening the economic capacity of our country. It implements the programmes and priorities that we have declared in the establishment of the coalition. Moreover, all comments within the budget balance were taken into account at the refinement stage in the Government. This is not a project of the Party of the Regions, therefore, but a project created by the coalition Government. I would like to emphasize that, more than a year ago, our Government was able to correct the situation that we had adopted in 2006. And we are in full compliance with our obligations. As a result of the eight months of 2007, the economic growth was 7.5 per cent. Industrial production increased by almost 11 per cent, inflation by 6.2 per cent, and investment in the economy rose by 32 per cent. This means that the output of goods is increasing, production is gradually being updated, and new technologies are being introduced. As a result, productivity is increasing, and so our citizens are able to earn more. The Government has taken significant steps to overcome poverty and improve the quality of life of our citizens. In seven months, nominal income increased by 27.3 per cent compared to the corresponding period of the previous year. Staff salaries increased by 32 per cent from July 2006 to July 2007 and in nominal terms was equal to 1,000 421 bracelets, compared to 1,000 79 bracelets a year ago. The minimum wage, the provision of money to the military, pensions, social security, and benefits to the population have been increased several times throughout the year. Social protection for poor families, families with children, pensioners, veterans, disabled persons and other socially vulnerable groups has been strengthened. The budget balance is maintained this year. Thus, normal proportions of economic development that were violated during manual economic management experiments in 2005 are restored. Economic growth and social indicators this year could have been much higher if the country had not been unwarrantedly dragged into political battalions. Despite political instability, the 2008 budget was planned with clear compliance with existing legislation. A budget declaration was adopted for the first time by the spring Government, which clearly defined the specific objectives of economic and budgetary policies for the following year and how to achieve them. It reflects all the parameters of the future budget as defined in article 33 of the Budget Code. All budgeting phases included all ministries and departments, representatives of regions, people's deputies, researchers, the scientific community, and an improved methodology for calculating key budgetary indicators. The President's Secretariat had also joined in that process, in a rather unusual manner. Instead of constructive work, the ultimatums were sent to Governments. Two separate budget lines have been submitted to the National Security and Defence Board, although neither the Constitution nor the National Security Council Act nor budget legislation provide for this. There are now very many budget initiatives in the dust of electoral campaigns, some not only not real to the economy, but also destructive to the economy. Most of them are not really supported or read. I want to address our citizens, the promise of boundless wages, pensions, a rapid increase in living standards, the return of all our lost savings for two years is a direct lie to our people. Why didn't those who promised you this today - the Governments of Timoshenko and Yushchenko in their time in 2005 and 2006 - do all of this? Moreover, I will allow myself to quote a dry summary from the Committee on Statistics' report on the economic social situation of 8 months 2005, which is useful to remind those who led the country in 2005. Macroeconomic situation. Eight months in 2005 were marked by a sharp decline in the rate of real gross domestic product growth. In the first half of 2005, compared to the first half of 2004, there was a sharp reduction in the increase in gross fixed capital accumulation, while there was a significant decrease in the volume of exports of goods and services. Industry. During January-August 2005, there was a sharp reduction in industrial output growth compared to the previous year. Large-scale legislative changes during the adoption of the 2005 budget have worsened the entrepreneurial environment, resulting in a decrease in the amount of land capital in Ukraine. The reduction in the investment expenditure of the budget led to a decrease of 7.8 per cent compared to the corresponding construction period in 2004 compared to a significant increase in construction work during 2004 in January and August 2005. In particular, 25.6 downgraded the work of road - building companies. On 26.8 — enterprises that built highway pipelines, telecommunications, and power lines. Bridges, roads, and subway tunnels were cut short. Transport. In January-August 2005, freight transport dropped by about three percent compared to January-August 2004. This was primarily due to the reduction in freight transport by strategic means such as rail and other means of transport. External trade in goods. For the first time in January-August 2005, there was a steady trend in export growth and import growth, resulting in a negative eight-month balance of $491 million against a positive two billion nine hundred and fifty-eight million in January-August 2004. And we didn't have a significant gas rise at the time. Wholesale and retail trade. The turnover of trade in eight months in 2005 against the corresponding period in 2004 decreased by 4.3 percent. It's a valuable situation. The price situation in January-August 2005 was influenced by the pre-eminent rise in prices, tariffs in services and the increase in the number of socially significant food products, namely sugar, fish, seafood, meat and processed products. In addition, the overall increase in consumer market prices has been influenced by the rise in fuel oil prices. Pay your dues. The level of pay in educational institutions, culture, health care was 22-37 percent lower than the average rate in the economy. In fact, each second employee in this area received a minimum wage. In 2005, the repayment of debt from salary payments virtually ceased. And now these sad policies teach us how to live, how to budget. The Government of Yanukovic is not pursuing cheap populism, but is working to ensure that the welfare of citizens is not promoted once, but sustained and balanced. The social standards guaranteed by the Government in the draft budget are broader and deeper than those of the pseudo-oppositional political forces, political forces that are fragmented selective. The budget parameters submitted for your consideration are balanced and balanced with the real revenues that the execution of the Power will receive next year. Moreover, its position is the first real step towards medium-term budgeting in the history of Ukraine. You can see macro indicators that are included in the budget formation on the slide. They are tense enough, but we have already identified a set of measures that will ensure a high economic dynamic next year. As has been demonstrated by the experience of the past years, our Government has been able to implement them. A few words of criticism of the macroeconomic indicators of the budget by the Secretariat of the President and the pseudo-oppositional forces. They criticize that we have allegedly underestimated the growth rate of gross domestic product. They are indisposed that, according to international financial institutions, in particular the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank, independent international economic institutions, estimates of gross domestic product are significantly lower. We do not share this approach of international financial institutions, but we remain cautious about planning in 2008, taking into account the risks in world markets. I would like to reiterate that the government forecast is fully justified. For the determination of gross domestic product in the following year, projections were made for all its components using more than 100 indicators on methodologies that meet international standards. Calculations take into account the impact of external and domestic political, economic, social and other factors. The consolidated budget for 2008 is projected at 246.3 billion or almost 50 billion more than this year. The total budget is projected to be 267 billion. Increasing social standards and the standard of living of citizens remains a key area of the budget. The budget resumes the stimulating role of wages. For every working citizen seeks to have a job worthy of wages and does not depend on social promises of any government or president. During 2008, the minimum wage would increase by 22.8 per cent. On the slide you can see how much the minimum wage will be for the following year not less than 565 bracelets. By the end of 2008, the ratio between the minimum wage and the subsistence minimum for persons with disabilities would be 90.3 per cent, and for 2009, we plan to reach a 100 per cent ratio. I recall that another year that ratio was 75 per cent. We focus on the quality of wage increases. In 2008, the salaries of budget staff would be based on the second and third stages of a single tariff network of salaries and salaries. In comparison to the slide, you can see that, compared to 2005, the cost of wage for budget workers is increasing more than twice. This will increase the prestige of skilled work and eliminate the equation. In general, an additional 18.7 billion bracelets are provided to increase the salaries of budget workers. And as you can see on the slide, this quantity is 1.7 times higher than that of the Government of Ehanurov in 2006. With the increase in salaries, allowances and allowances during 2008, the average monthly wage will increase by 525 or 34.7 per cent: from 1 000 511 to 2 000 36; a school teacher by 500 bracelets or 36.7 per cent: from 1 thousand 401 bracelets to 1 thousand 901 bracelets; a high-class therapist station by 430 bracelets or 34.7 per cent: from 1 000 238 to 1 000 768; a senior surgeon by 491 bracelets or 34.5 per cent: from 1 000 423 to 1,000 914 grivens; and a high-level doctor by 529 grivens: 1 000 524 to 2 000 53. Next year, we will continue to increase this year's financial support for troops, members of the military and the leadership. To that end, the Government further allocates 2.4 billion grevens. The current payments would therefore be increased by an average of 19 per cent, with the primary priority being to increase payments for the least paid categories of military personnel. For example, the average level of cash security in law enforcement agencies will increase by 21.5 to 30 per cent compared to the current year and will be guaranteed at a level of at least 1,000 700 griers per month. The provision of cash to senior military officers will be at least 2,000. Also, there will be a threefold increase in the cash content of trainees and emergency personnel, and an increase in legal earnings will create the necessary basis for a decent pension. The following year, substantial support is provided for older persons. The Government's proposed increase in pensions is aimed at eliminating the equation and making fairer payments to older workers. In 2008, it is envisaged that for every full year of insurance over 25 years for men and 20 years for women at the age of retirement, there will be an increase of 2 per cent of the pension rate instead of the current increase of 1 per cent. Thus, a progressive insurance scale is being developed. The increase will reach all 12 million pensioners who have an additional insurance service. In 2008, 25.8 billion are planned from the State Pension Budget. For the first time in 2008, all children of war will receive an increase of 50 per cent of the wage premium. As you can see on the slide, in 2005 and 2006 these payments were not budgeted at all. The cost of these payments will be $1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016. That's three times what we planned for 2007. The 2008 draft State budget for Ukraine provides for an increase in annual cash assistance for Victory Day. The average increase is 10 per cent to the current year's level. Two and a half times the cost of food, medicines in preventive care facilities for war veterans. The relevant decision of the Government was taken in March this year. The Government is enhancing the social protection of pensions for citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster. The budget will be increased by a third. The most significant growth you can see on the slide. I would particularly like to point out that the following year there is a significant increase in the supplementary pension of this category of first-class nationals, more than seven times in the second, third and fourth categories, more than 10 times. In the first half of 2006, the previous Government was unable to return a single penny to investors. And it is only my Government that has resumed payments at the end of 2006 and is paying 100 per cent of compensation to depositors of the bank in 2007. Payments in 2008 are 100 million more than this year. State assistance to children and families with children will be substantially increased in 2008. In the early years of life, every child will receive substantial State support. Social guarantees are increasing: the pyi birth of the first to 11,000 children. 700 bracelets, 2nd child, 25,000. The bracelets, the third and the next are 50,000 bracelets. The phase of these payments will allow for a longer period at the appropriate level to support children in the first years of their lives. Unlike our predecessors, we care not only about increasing fertility but also about all aspects of child development, education and health. The level of government-guaranteed income for low-income families will increase by 10 per cent compared with 2007. For each child, however, the subsistence minimum will be further increased by 10 per cent. For children with single mothers or parents with disabilities, this increase will be 20 per cent for each child in a poor, multi-child family. In 2008, assistance for underprivileged citizens will be increased until they reach the age of 3 years of age with more than 300 bracelets. On the slide, you can see that the amount of State social assistance to disabled persons from childhood and children with disabilities will be 696 bracelets to 654. Public social assistance will be increased for disabled children and disabled children. Single children with 2 children will increase to 440 bracelets, single children with 3 children will increase to 348 children with disabilities under 6 years of age to 588.8 bracelets, children with disabilities between 6 and 18 will increase to 653.8 bracelets. The social, labour and professional rehabilitation costs of persons with disabilities have been increased one and a half times against 2006. There has been a 1.6-fold increase compared with 2007 in subsidies to local budgets for public social assistance to orphans and children deprived of parental care, cash provision for parents and foster parents in foster homes. In 2008, there will be a threefold increase in one-time cash assistance in the post-school employment of orphans and children deprived of parental care to 3,000,438 bracelets. One-time care for orphans and children deprived of parental care, 18 years of age, will be doubled compared to 2007 and will amount to 1,000,590 bracelets. With a view to improving the social situation of orphans and children deprived of parental care, the Government has decided to increase their scholarships from 1 January 2008 to 3,2 times the number of students in vocational and technical schools, to 500 bracelets, and five times the number of students in higher education, to 1,060 bracelets. The Government has decided to further substantially increase scholarships for all students. This is clearly shown on the slide. Compared to the beginning of 2007, the minimum levels of scholarships will be doubled for students in vocational and technical schools, up to 200 bracelets per month, for students in higher education in the first and second levels of accreditation, up to 400 bracelets, for students in higher education in the third and fourth levels of accreditation, up to 530 bracelets. In order to provide young people with the first job in the budget, a 50 million bracelet grant is provided for employers for the first time. Public support for education and teachers is increasing. For the first time in the past 11 years, the Government's decision of 20 April 2007 has increased the number of supplements and promotions to the salaries of teachers. There is a double increase over the current year in the cost of housing loans, housing for academic and pedagogical workers. The funding of the Public Targeted School of the Future programme has increased by 5.6 times. There are 161.6 million bracelets available for computerization, general education information. Equal access to high-quality secondary education for children living in rural areas is provided through the State's School Bus Programme. Acquisition of school buses in 2008 will be made from the general budget of the State budget. The Government has provided significant resources to improve the quality of health services. Overall, health expenditures in 2008 will increase by 6.4 billion. Next year, we plan to provide medical facilities with modern diagnostic, treatment equipment that will be available to every centre. To this end, for the first time in 2008, it is possible to purchase medical equipment under financial leasing of up to 7 billion bracelets. This will address one of the industry's major challenges: the well-being and weariness of medical equipment, the underdevelopment of new technologies, treatments and diagnostics. You can see on the slide how health costs increase with individual priority programmes. There is an increase of 1.8 times over the current year in funding for the State programme to prevent cardiovascular and brain disease treatment. I'm not going to count it all, you can see it all on the slide. For the first time, costs are provided for the acquisition of high-cost medicines to treat patients with chronic and water leukosis. The Government continues to finance the refurbishment of primary health care facilities, primarily located in rural areas. Funding is also provided for the acquisition of cars for them. 150 million bracelets will be allocated for this purpose. The cost of physical culture and sport increased by 35.5 per cent. In addition, the draft budget provides for 3 billion bracelets to finance activities related to the final part of the 2012 European Championship in Ukraine. The budget clearly balances the main priorities of our policy, substantially strengthens the innovation and investment component, and provides considerable support for the real economy. The following year, public investment in the economy will amount to 37.5 billion grevens, twice as much as was set out in the 2006 budget. These funds will be directed towards the development of priority sectors of the economy. High-tech production, technical and technological refurbishment of enterprises and energy savings are of particular importance. You can see the main areas of government support on the slide. I'll just stop for a minute. 9.8 billion are planned for the development of transport infrastructure for road construction, over 4 billion for housing and utilities, and over 4 billion for scientific and technological capacity development. In order to attract significant credit resources, public guarantees amounting to up to 5 billion grevens are provided: construction and repair of roads, construction of housing funds, mortgage loans, purchase of domestic-produced aircraft. The Government would thus encourage financial institutions to step up credit activities and reduce credit rates. Some 1.5 billion bracelets are available for interest rates on bank loans in the budget. This will enable at least 10 billion credit resources to be raised. Special budget support is an energy savings programme. The 2008 budget provides for 952 million bracelets for concessional lending of investment and innovation projects. Funding to support the agro-industry complex should provide public support for the restoration of the village. The main governmental priorities are the return to large livestock and grain production, the transition to stable crop technologies. Government support for vegetation, fertilization and grape production increased by 46.2 per cent. More than 3.3 billion bracelets are planned for this purpose. Significant funds are included, inter alia, in maximizing the risks we have seen this year. That is, we must create conditions for agrarians to maximize the risk of future crop loss. To this end, 200 million bracelets have been allocated insurance for agricultural production. Over 20,000 agricultural enterprises will be able to insure the risk of loss of agricultural products in agricultural areas, estimated at over 8 million hectares. Government support for the redesign of agricultural production has been increased by 34.3 per cent. 739.6 million grevens are planned for this purpose. For the first time, 100 million bracelets will be allocated from the State budget to protect reproduction and increase the fertility of land. In addition, forward purchases of grain will be introduced into the State Food Reserve. Public support for domestic machinery. I'd like a few more minutes, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u17	Continue the time until the report is completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u18	Support for the domestic machinery for the agro-industry complex is 13 times more targeted than in 2007. We continue, in particular, to stress, the concessional VAT tax regime for farmers. Thus, more than 5 billion bracelets will remain at their disposal. For the first time in the next year's budget, considerable attention is paid to improving the well-being of farmers, particularly those working in the budget area. In particular, it is the first time that 1 billion bracelets are allocated to housing of educational, cultural, health and other budget workers who live and work in rural areas and have entered into employment contracts for 20 years. For the first time, funds have been made available to compensate the costs incurred by APC enterprises for the construction of social facilities — more than 100 million bracelets. Funding continued for individual rural builders – 105 million grivens, 40.9 million grivens in support of rural community development. In addition, the budget for concessional credit for construction, housing for individual categories of citizens has doubled to attract highly qualified professionals to rural work. The concessional lending of education is an incentive for young people to work in rural areas. In line with the Government's decision of 26 September 2006, graduates of higher education institutions who have received pedagogical education and have entered into a contract of employment for at least three years receive one-time cash assistance of five times the minimum wage. This applies to workers and rural, urban areas. In addition, as I mentioned earlier, by increasing the minimum wage, the introduction of the second and third stages of wage based on a single tariff network will increase the average wage of rural intelligence during 2008 Frg_01256*001*032&lt;11:14: 43&gt; At least 35 per cent. The results of such an integrated approach by the Government to addressing the problem of incarceration in the country will be several orders higher than those 20 per cent of which the President insists so strongly. The cost of supporting the road transport complex is increasing by a third. In particular, in 2008, 300 million grivens are allocated for the construction of Kharkovsky, Dnepropetrovski, Donetsk, Kiev Metropolitans; 360 million grivens for the integrated reconstruction and maintenance of airports; 80 million grivens for the reduction of credits for the acquisition of passenger cars for rail transport; 100 million grivens for the maintenance of the safe state of navigation gateways, inland waterways; and for the construction of a dam under the Danube Black Sea waterway project. For the first time, the budget provides 200 million bracelets for the development of the infrastructure of Borispol International Airport. In addition, two billion grevens are earmarked for the development of roads. The transit potential of our State is enormous, and Ukraine must be the one that connects Europe with Russia and Asia. Housing and utility finance has been significantly increased in the 2008 budget. The expenditure on the State-wide programme for housing and utility reform and development has increased by 4.6 times. In addition, two billion 150 million grevens will be allocated to social and economic development activities to prevent accidents and prevent technological disasters in housing and utilities and other public property accidents. One billion 992 million for the compensation of Ukraine's Petroleumgas, the difference between the prices for the purchase of imported natural gas and its realization to operators of the thermal energy industry that is consumed by the population. In this regard, I draw your attention to the fact that we are stabilizing housing and utility tariffs and there will be no increase in these tariffs in the coming years. 150 million bracelets for the purchase of wagons for utility transport. 400 million bracelets for energy conservation activities. For the first time, 323 million bracelets have been set aside to cover the losses of enterprises that generate or supply thermal energy to the population, which have arisen during the nine months of 2006 due to an increase in the price of natural gas. For the first time, there are 240 million bracelets in the budget for the “Telephone for Every Home”. The funds will focus primarily on telephone communication in rural areas and depressed regions. The 2008 coal industry is expected to target 6.7 billion or almost one billion grivens more than envisaged in 2007. You look at the slide, it was in 2005 that Timoshenko drastically reduced the state support for the coal industry. And the crisis that we are working hard to overcome in 2006 and 2007 is, above all, a failure of State support for this sector that is critical to the country's energy balance. Special attention will be paid by the State to the introduction of new capacities for coal enterprises, support for existing ones, improve security technologies and, of course, timely payment of wages. In addition, for the first time, the budget provides for 807.4 million to partially meet the debt obligations of coal-based enterprises to electricity suppliers. This is specifically done to stabilize electricity tariffs. For the first time, a significant resource has been allocated to the development of aviation, the missile and space industries. Next year, 765 million grevens are planned for public support for the Ukrainian aviation industry development programme. In addition, the Government provides for the provision of State guarantees by enterprises for the purchase of 1 billion griven domestic aircraft. And next year, Ukraine will indeed become an aviation power that will resume the production of its passenger aircraft. 2.8 times more than funds are available this year for the development of the space and missile industry. In addition, funds are provided to address the shortage of personnel in the space industry. It is the provision of office accommodation for young professionals in the public space industry. The development of local budget indicators for 2008 takes place on new principles and approaches for building inter-budget relations, taking into account the concepts of local budget reform. Our aim is to enhance the capacity of the authorities to address regional problems and to reduce territorial differences at the levels of economic and social development. For 2008, the income of local budgets, which are included in the determination of inter-budget transfers, is increasing by 10 and a half billion bracelets and is 44.1 billion bracelets, almost twice as high as in 2006. An increase of 1.7 billion is projected for incomes, revenues from local budgets, which are not taken into account in the determination of inter-budget transfers. These funds will be used by local authorities to implement local programmes, local social protection programmes, human settlements development and the like. I want to draw your attention and attention to those who listen to my report. Local budget expenditures will amount to 67 billion rubles in 2008. This figure is almost three times higher than in 2005. It is already comparable to that of the State budget. An increase of 35 per cent compared to this year, local budgets account for salaries paid to budget staff. Some existing and new adjustment factors have been revised in calculating the expenditure of the local budgets to take into account the characteristics of the territorial units. One and a half times more than local budgets are planned for 2007. Its total will be 28.5 billion. It is a matter of redistribution, particularly towards the western regions of the country, mostly subsidized, and this refutes the obvious lie that the Government seems to be thinking only of the development of the south-east and the centre of Ukraine. Once again, the total redeployment will be 28.5 billion. This is by comparing the total amount of local budgets in 2005. As a result of the improvement in the calculation methodology of the second consecutive year, a substantial additional financial resource is planned, which remains at the disposal of local budgets to stimulate income growth. For 2008, this amount will be $1.6 billion. The investment component of local budgets is increasing. At least 50 per cent of the additional funds left to local authorities due to the application of the leveling factor are intended to target investment projects and energy-saving activities. For the first time, it is intended to promote those local budgets that receive a grant from the State budget and increase their income base annually. To this end, an additional grant of $142.7 billion is provided for. For 2008, the government budget deficit of 18.9 billion dollars or 2.34 per cent of GDP is foreseen. This figure is much lower than the planned budget deficits, which were approved in 2005 – 2.55, and 2.58, i.e. despite a significant increase in expenditure, the Government managed to keep the deficit within optimal limits. The main sources of budget deficits are the income from privatization from domestic and external borrowing. The debt indicators in our country on the slide, you can see that, unlike all the lies that are now being spread in the media, are only moderate. We see that the ratio of Ukraine's State direct and guaranteed debt to its gross domestic product has been reduced from 61 per cent to 13.6 per cent. This figure will fall to 10.6 per cent in 2008. To conclude, I would like to say a few words of criticism to which the budget is being budgeted, regrettably, by the President of Ukraine. He felt that the budget parameters were low. Regrettably, our State has already had a bitter experience when the excess budget commitment was stifling production by removing over-planned taxes as a result of increased economic tensions, people were losing their earnings and the State was losing their income. Our Government also takes fully into account the fact that oil money inflows may pose a threat to increased inflation, especially in the context of a significant gap between growth in personal income and production. Humans cannot be deceived even to seize power. There is no other way to make society successful and rich than accelerated economic development. Only by creating more and more material goods can they be distributed more and more justly. These are the laws of a real, not a cabinet economy. Reforms are not done in six months. During this period, only the foundation of change can be laid. And we laid it, including in the next year's budget, counting on fruitful cooperation with the MPs, professionals who are being drawn by the deputies to work on the draft budget. Deeply convinced that budget policy will be a source of accelerated population growth next year, building on the economic capacity of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u19	Thank you for the report. Please, who wants to ask a question, sign up, you have 15 minutes. I remind you: a minute, no more questions, a minute to answer. The fences.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u20	The Plotniks, the Party of the Regions. Mikola Janović, I have a question about the relationship with the local budgets. How do social subsidies provided by the local budget increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u21	Thank you. Overall, the slide showed that the total increase in subsidies to be allocated to local budgets increased by one and a half times. And I already said that the total expenditure of the local budget would be 67 billion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u22	Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u23	Dear Nikolai Janović, all sectors are quiet, but slowly, but subject to positive change, order is being ordered. But in the area of housing and utilities, there's a curse on it, even Sevastopol and dirt, and only the roofs of high-rise houses are visible. How is funding going here, and is funding the only way to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u24	The answer can be only one: the targeted, serious work of the Government and local authorities to address local budgets. And this is the treaty that we have signed with the Donetsk Region, for example, and we are now preparing with a number of areas and regions, including Sevastopol, for 3 to 4 years enormous resources to bring about the order of sewerage, water supply, major repairs of our housing fund, including the cleaning of the streets that you are talking about. This is precisely what 2008 is all about so that our cities are clean and neat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u25	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u26	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Mikolo Janovich, I'm familiar with the 2008 budget and I want to say that this is a serious step forward. There are serious spending trends, the growth of the Ukrainian people, the rise in income and pensions, the support of military personnel and young people. But as a socialist, I cannot accept that only 100 million people have been paid back to compensate the savings of the Ukrainian people. We're going to have to go a long way, hundreds of years, if that's how we're going to make up for our savings today. I think we need to increase compensation, as a minimum, to 1.5-2 billion dollars. I also believe that the Socialist Party faction will not vote in favour of this budget if we fail to fully finance the Ukrainian Law on the Social Protection of War Children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. We have the budget, not the hundred million you're talking about, but the 750 million that you're talking about. to compensate the population for contributions made to the former bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u28	Is that an increase of 100 million?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u29	That's a hundred million growing. We will be in the budget process, it has only begun today, we will seek additional opportunities. However, I would like to say immediately that this is an extremely important problem, and our Government is working on it. It concludes that, to date, even about the total of these contributions to the population are unknown. It's an estimate for the '90s. But in 16 years, you understand that a lot of water has escaped. So the Government is currently analysing this issue in terms of what? If we really want to count ourselves in front of our people, then we must recognize this debt as Ukraine's domestic public debt, carry out its inventory, effectively replace and issue to our citizens the State obligation to specify the time of return of those savings, indicate how the mechanism for returning those savings will be. These contributions need to be indexed because the contributions for the 1990s need to be indexed. Therefore, when some comrades claim that they will be extinguished within two years, they do not even know the extent of the problem, they do not know how much to put out, what sources to put out, but they promise to deceive our people again. We don't go that way. Once again, the Government will certainly consider this issue in full next year. There are different options for this task, and they are designed to return to the population the funds that are indexed within an absolutely observable time frame.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u30	Pecknut instead of Etukhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u31	Dear Nikolai Janović, thank you for your informative and eloquent report. This is a government report that has been working and is going to work for the next five years. This is a budget that shows the maximum potential of what our political opponents have left us. At the same time, I believe that we must review not only the figures, but the methodology and mechanisms. This is particularly true of local budgets. It is growing objectively because gross domestic product is growing, and these are the mechanisms of interest of local budgets that would enable more efficient work. And a few words about regional problems, in particular the Zaporozhye Bridge. You planned 282 million while the budget figures, this source article, increase by 20 per cent, you planned 2 per cent growth on the Zaporozhye Bridges. That's not good enough. Please answer these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u32	Let's get this straight. If you have the capacity to build a bridge faster than you are doing now, we will provide adequate funding for the construction of this bridge. If you win more than 202. 82 million, we are ready to consider increasing funds for the construction of the bridge. Our position is not just to Zaporozhye. That's exactly what we're talking about in Kiev. If they were able to build this bridge faster, I mean the bridge crossing, and you know what the traffic problem is in Kiev, we're ready to provide accelerated funding for the construction of this bridge. For example. Likewise, our approach to the construction of the railway bridge and so on. We believe that these problems do not now arise in large sums of money. I talked about it at a government meeting yesterday. If there was such a problem before, there is now a problem in the quality of their development. The local authorities have taken up the election, is there anything else that they do not understand, but they do not absorb the 10.7 billion bracelets that they have in the Treasury accounts, in the local budgets, think about that figure! Only 11.6, well, a billion there pay and so on, current, and 10.7 billion bracelets that can't be used. The question is, What are they not using? This is what they do not use: first, they do not work, and secondly, they do not create production capacities that can make use of these resources. That's why you asked the question justly. This is the idea that our Prime Minister has made and is now being implemented by the Government: the conclusion of treaties between regions and the Government, which will include resources, objectives and the necessary material means to realize those resources.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u33	Mikola Janović, you have yet to mention the third reason: the failure to implement these funds is due to the non-signatories of the Procurement Organization Act that we have adopted. And this inhibits the use of budget funds for the needs of the community.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u34	Well, yeah, it's a lot into one ball.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u35	Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u36	Dear Mikola Janovich, the Supreme Council had adopted the Ukrainian Youth Insurance Act in 2004 and had received higher or vocational or technical education as the first job with employers' grants. This mechanism was planned to be introduced as soon as January 1, 2006. However, this did not happen. Can you please tell me what the government is planning for 2008? After all, the problem of youth employment is very urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u37	I have already mentioned in the report that for the first time we have allocated a very significant resource to our employers to recruit young people, to create jobs, to provide jobs for young professionals for three years. We will work out how this resource will be made available, and it will earn money in 2008. If he turns out to be effective, then we're going to grow this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u38	Thank you. Liczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u39	Vladimir Liczuk, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Mikola Janović, it is well known that this year the minimum pension payment for war invalids and participants in combat is set at between 70 and 100 percent of the average wage in the economy in 2006, ranging from 729 to 1,041 bracelets. Will this rule be preserved next year? But what additional steps are being taken to further increase the level of material security of this category? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u40	I have addressed this issue in sufficient detail, and the slide has demonstrated: the approaches of the Government. We plan to significantly increase financial support, especially for our veterans of the Great Homeland War, the disabled of the Great Homeland War. The 2008 budget therefore provides for very substantial funding for this task.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u41	Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u42	Dear Mikola Janović, how do I expect payment to disabled children and disabled children? And are these allocated funds enough? Another question is, today, Santa is 70 years old and almost a third of the villages without gas. The subsidy is projected to be only 6.5 million. That's not enough, when you need 120-150 million, that's 30 years we're going to be gassing. Is it possible to increase all of this? And last of all, if money is not being used in Zaporozhye, Santa Claus is ready enough to build a city through the New Bug. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u43	Well, I think after Zaporozhye gave an incentive, they'll think about speeding up. With regard to the New Bug Bridge, we are thinking about this problem. The Japanese have offered us a loan that is quite beneficial to us. We will therefore work together: we will allocate funds from the State, from the local budget and from the Japanese loan. I think we're about to move on to building a bridge. Now on gas, of course, we will consider if you have specific proposals and there is a possibility to implement this policy of gasification of the villages of Nikolaev region. We are prepared to consider increasing the financial resources for this purpose. Finally, the mechanism. Well, the mechanism is defined in government order, in the relevant decrees and in the regulations of the Minister of Social Policy and Labour. I will not go into detail on this mechanism; there were no claims to this mechanism. All these social benefits are paid in a timely and timely manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u44	Please, Pacheek.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u45	Mikola Janović, in the last 15 years there has been no aid program for passenger transport. There is no way to reach consensus on this issue. There is a proposal for the 2008 budget to provide for a chapter on Aid and Communications Grants. That's the first question. And the second question. In order to increase the road transport budget, the only tax that needs to be abolished is the fact that there are not less than 4.5 billion dollars in shadow today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u46	With regard to concessional subsidies for passenger transport. Well, there's this subsidy, we finance it 100 percent. Just yesterday, we listed 67 million bracelets for, say, debt repayment. We have a subsidy on fact. That is, first, motor vehicles transport concessional categories of passengers, start with accounts, then we pay those bills. That is why we have no problem paying off this debt right now. We are fully, 100 per cent, enumerating the funds of this subsidy. Therefore, if there are delays somewhere, this is primarily a matter for local authorities, why they do not fully bring this subsidy to the automotive industry. For the coming year, this subsidy has been preserved, funding under this article has been increased, and there will therefore be no problems for the future with the concessional transport of passengers. With regard to a single transport tax, this issue will be addressed and dealt with in the framework of the Tax Code that we are with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u47	Let me finish. About the Tax Code.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u48	Yeah. I think you and I will consider the Tax Code with us in the near future. Regrettably, this decision to disband parliament has prevented not only tax reform from taking place to many other reforms, but also halted tax reform. We were forced to develop the 2008 budget on an old tax basis. I don't think we're gonna make that mistake anymore or let that mistake happen. By 2009, we will be making a new budget based on the new Tax Code. He's almost ready. It's important to find consensus here in this room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u49	Mikola Janović, we need to make more precise use of legal terms. There is no decision to dissolve Parliament. No one took it. There's an unconstitutional presidential decree to suspend the term of office and hold the elections. That is why we must all understand, no one has the right to dissolve Parliament and no such word is mentioned in the Constitution at all. Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u50	Please pass on the word Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u51	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u52	Thank you very much. Nikolai Janović, it is no secret that we are experiencing a demographic crisis. And with all that we're doing, we're not going to solve this problem on a one-time basis. We need a whole system. This system is designed to ensure that not 27 per cent of preschool children attend kindergartens, but at least 80 to 90 per cent. This is the availability of education, the guarantee of the first job that Julia has mentioned and the provision of housing for young people. Please tell me what can be explained by the fact that the draft budget you are presenting is significantly reduced in terms of lending to youth housing and, among other things, concessional loans. I mean, it's not just a partial compensation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u53	Catherine Semenovna, please specify what Julia was saying, for we do not have one. There's Julia Kovalevska. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u54	I'm just recommending that we read the budget carefully, in fact, we have this position on a number of programmes, but it's not in one place, it's in a number of programmes. And in general, it's not shrinking, but on the contrary, it's increasing, and it's increasing significantly. There, we'll assume that the first job programme is a billion. I'm just stressing, drawing your attention. The programme includes a billion to say that the problem of housing provision and housing for young people is being addressed. In doing so, the mechanism for the use of this billion can ensure that significant credit resources are involved. The mortgage and so on, and so on. That is, in fact, the actual programme itself is increasing significantly. Now, with regard to your question about such an integrated programme to address the demographic problem. I'd like to emphasize exactly what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u55	Please finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u56	I would stress that it is our coalition Government as a whole that has been able to bring this problem together for the first time, not only by birth, but also by accompanying a young man of working age. Not only escorting to a working age, but also further, job security, 20-year employment and so on and so on. The economic development programme itself is also a programme to ensure the future of our young people. The root of the demographic problem is not that mothers do not want to give birth, but that children and mothers do not see their future and fear for the future. So our Government's task is to create a predictable, secure future for our children and for the parents of children, including, of course, addressing the problem of kindergartens, pre-school, school education, higher education, vocational and technical education. But I would like to draw attention to another aspect of this problem, particularly the extension of the life expectancy of our active working population. Here, I note that the social and economic development programme and the budget, respectively, provide for a broad programme of support for our health care, prevention, dissension, improvement in the quality of treatment, re-installation of our treatment facilities, medical and diagnostic equipment and so on and so forth. Together, all of this will allow us to extend the life expectancy of our people. And that's also a solution to the demographic problem, which is more effective, by the way, because before the child comes to work, it will take him 20 years, and if we extend for at least three to four years the active life of our citizens, we will be given additional work hands that are now lacking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u57	Thank you. Sit down, please, Mikola Janovich. Thank you for the specific answers. I give the floor to the head of the Parliamentary Committee of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeyenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u58	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, reverend Mikolo Janovich, distinguished national MPs, members of the government, are invited! I hold the Basic Law in my hands, the Constitution of Ukraine, under which today we are considering the start of the budgetary process. Article 96 of the Constitution of Ukraine states: “The state budget of Ukraine is approved annually by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” The Cabinet of Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and article 37, part 2, of the Budget Code, submitted to the Supreme Council on 14 September this year a draft Law on Ukraine’s State Budget for 2008. Therefore, despite the political situation today, we, the people’s deputies, in accordance with the functioning Constitution of Ukraine need to approach this work. In line with the requirements of article 39 of the Budget Code, the Budget Committee conducted a preliminary evaluation of the draft State Budget Act 2007 and authorized the following: the draft law meets the requirements of the Budget Code for the preparation of such projects in recent years. At the same time, a new development in the drafting of the State Budget Act for the following year is the development by the government of another March 1st year of the 2008 Budget Declaration, which was used in the drafting of the bill. Such a document was adopted to implement article 32 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. We hope that a sufficiently early deadline for fiscal policymaking and the following year will help further improve the planning process for the State budget of Ukraine. With regard to the 2008 bill, the following should be noted. For 2008, gross domestic product is projected to be redistributed by a budget of 30.4 percent, less so. Last year's 1.7 percent. The government's proposals to further reduce tax burden on taxpayers should be welcomed. The bill includes, inter alia, an increase in the amount of tax and social income tax on individuals' income by almost 500 million dollars, a reduction in the rate of currency purchase from 1.3 per cent to 1 per cent in 2007 and from 1 per cent to 0.5 per cent in the following year. This allows you to leave over 1 billion dollars in the Ukrainian economy for development next year. The cancellation of customs congregations in 2008 in connection with Ukraine’s anticipated acquisition of membership in the World Trade Organization. That's another minus 800 million dollars. In total, the revenue of the State Budget project for 2008 is projected at 101, 191 billion 100 million dollars and an increase of 33.8 billion dollars, or 21.5 percent compared to the approved figures for the current year. This amount of income is calculated from last year's revenue performance, expected to be realized in the current year and taking into account the government's government-approved forecast of the main macroeconomic and social development indicators for 2008 with nominal GDP of 810 billion dollars, its real increase of 7.2 percent, the consumer index of 106.8 percent. As in the current year, the State Budget Bill 2008 does not contain tax rules, so any speculation about the regulation of tax legislation needs to be stopped. The issue of improving tax legislation through the adoption of the Tax Code, which the government has already worked with the working group, remains up - to - date. Also this year, thanks to the fruitful cooperation of the government, the Supreme Council has prepared changes to the budget code. But as you know, political events have prevented the Supreme Council from working and accepting them. The 2008 State Budget project is set up with a deficit of 18.9 billion dollars, representing 2.3 percent of gross domestic product. This ratio corresponds to the requirements of the Maastricht Treaties, which is not more than 3 percent, i.e. European standards. In addition, the privatisation of 9 billion dollars, which is one of the main sources of government budget deficit financing. The bill proposes to focus not on food, but on development spending, particularly on housing and social and economic development programmes -- 4.3 billion dollars, 1.4 billion dollars in construction, 2.5 billion in defence industry, 700 million in fuel and energy. The bill provides for further reductions in the share of government direct debt in gross domestic product from 12.3 per cent in 2006 to 10.6 per cent by the end of 2008. Although we do have examples of developed countries that have a sovereign debt of about 60 percent. Based on the corresponding budgetary resources, the total expenditure and lending of the State Budget project for 2008 is 211 billion dollars and an increase against the approval for the current year by 33.6 billion dollars or 18.8 percent. According to its content, the budget is both socially oriented and investment-oriented. Among the social priorities is the increase in the minimum wage from 460 dollars at the end of the year to 565 dollars from 1 October 2008, representing more than 90 percent of the minimum wage for working persons. The introduction of the third phase of the single tariff network of discharges and coefficients from the salaries of budget workers from November 1, 2008, which will result in the restoration of the affected wage imbalances and the promotion of the prestige of the qualified work of the doctor, teacher, librarian. An increase in child support of 11,000 dollars per child, 25,000 dollars for the second, 50,000 dollars for the third and the next child with a step-by-step payment. Retirement increases for people with high employment, i.e. in each additional year, the pension will increase by 2 percent, not 1 percent, as in the current year. The introduction of a 50 - percent pension supplement for all children of war in the current year is only valid for children of war and with disabilities. Significant increase in scholarships. Students of higher education institutions and students of vocational schools. The cost of the state budget project for the following year is increased by 9 billion dollars or 20 percent. This has touched agriculture, housing reform, aviation and missile space, coal industry, and so on. The bill has given special attention to energy conservation measures. As far as local budgets are concerned, it will not be news to you that the Supreme Council, given the motivated appeals of local self-government authorities, has encouraged the government to seek additional resources to ensure full funding, to secure the powers delegated by the State and to promote harmonious socio-economic development of the regions. It is therefore encouraging to note that, compared to the 2007 budget, the volume of local budget expenditure and revenues and inter-budget transfers are increasing markedly, while the gross local budget fund in the consolidated budget of Ukraine is estimated at 45.3 per cent. True, the lion’s share of such growth is once again part of the cost of protected articles, especially wages and other social expenses. Only to gradually increase the minimum wage, local budgets have more than 7 billion dollars, and for further implementation of a single tariff net of nearly 5 billion dollars. In addition, the implementation of the local budget stimulus system, which receives the State Budget grant and annually increases its income base, as well as the preservation of an additional grant from the State Budget for local budgets in the following year. Such steps should enhance the capacity of authorities to deal with regional projects. The State Budget project proposes an increase in subsidies to local budgets under general special funds, such as the social economic development of the regions and the promotion of such development. In addition, attention should be paid to the large number of budget programmes of the Chief Public Budget Managers, whose implementation will be provided in the regions and will contribute accordingly to their dynamic development. This applies primarily to housing, housing, rural development, cultural monuments, and so forth. Of course, in one budget, it is not possible to resolve all the issues that have accumulated over the years. And that's what our opponents are especially using today in terms of stepping up the political campaign when they're accusing the government of not taking into account the draft budget of one measure or another. However, not everyone today is willing to openly admit that it is impossible to comply with all the laws that have been adopted, based on their disagreements with each other, the state of socio-economic development and the financial possibilities of the State. Thus, the issue of a thorough inventory of the current legislative framework remains urgent. Therefore, in spite of the electoral race, in the process of reviewing and finalizing the 2008 State Budget Bill, one of the main tasks for the Supreme Council, the budgetary committee, under the Constitution of Ukraine and the Budget Code, is to ensure and maintain a balanced and realistic budget. We hope that in the thorough drafting of the bill on the budget committee, together with the government, we will consider all possible options for finding additional sources of funding. The bill should also restore all the rules on the cooperation of the Committee on Budget Affairs with the Government in part of the involvement in dealing with individual issues of the implementation of the State budget, particularly in the area of the allocation and use of funds, subsidies to local budgets. This will ensure that Parliament exercises effective control over the current implementation of the budget. So we ask all the people's deputies to respond with understanding to the work on the State Budget project and to adapt themselves to a constructive work to provide a professional basis for the consideration and drafting of the bill and its timely adoption by the Supreme Council by December 1st of this year. Today our task is not to adopt the draft Law as a basis, but to take it up by the Supreme Council for further elaboration and adoption. Following discussions and pursuant to article 39 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, the Committee on Budget Affairs decided at its meeting to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of a draft Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2008. In line with part one and part two of article 40 of the Budget Code of Observation and Proposals for Committees of the Supreme Council, MPs, national deputies to the draft State Budget Act for the following year are to be submitted to the Committee no later than the first of October of this year. All proposals should be balanced and not lead to an increase in government debt. The committee is already receiving many appeals from the central executive authorities, local governments from Winnitsky, Volinski, Zakarpatski, Ivano-Frankovsky, Lvivsky, Ternopil, and the rest of the regions of our Ukraine regarding the need to take into account proposals and problems. We are carefully considering these references. In addition, each day the committee deals with the implementation of the 2007 budget and responds promptly to the need to solve financial problems as our government, including the Ministry of Defence, the Security Service, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Emergency Situations, Education and Science, the State Administration of Security and the Office of the President of Ukraine is making a positive decision and the President's Secretariat has prepared a presidential decree to disconnect the House of the Supreme Council of Telephones. [[This is for the President's Secretariat.]] Dear colleagues, even at the time of the HCHR in 1991, telephones in the Supreme Council were working, and no one ruled them out as what we have today. We realize that the country must live and that we must work even under conditions where there is no operational link between ministries, offices, and local authorities. And we will do our job, and the budget will be received in time. Once again, I call attention to the heads of the committees, the heads of the factions, all the national deputies, on the date of October 1, after which the proposals that will come, the committee has no right and no opportunity to consider. Finally, it should be pointed out that the budgetary process in connection with the elections does not stop and according to the approved Supreme Council Head's schedule for the 2008 draft of the State Budget Act, the first reading is due to take place on October 19th, the second reading, November 16th, the third reading and adoption, as a whole, on November 29th 2007. That's why we urge all the political forces to cooperate with the country to start living with a new budget on 1 January 2008 that would suit the interests of our citizens and our society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u59	Thank you, Volodymyr Volodymyrovich. The Committee's head is not asked questions in the presentation of the budget. So we're just taking his message into account. In his report, he touched on many nuances about dirty acts against parliament and so forth, and at the same time it was very popular. such a slogan was “Nobody Forgets, Nothing Forgotten. ” Regarding another situation, it is important to remember that no one forgets anything. Everything's gonna be fine. We have two moments of that here. We're about to announce a half-hour break, and then the hour will be discussed, first. And secondly, tomorrow, the Mikolai district is 75 years old. Let's say hello. 70 years old. Well, then 75 will be soon, five years from now. Let's congratulate all the Santa Clauses on this. I'm asking you to sign up for whoever wants the factions first, please. From factions, and now from, in individual order, whoever wants. From the committees and in an individual order, please. Thank you. The meeting will continue in 30 minutes, please. At 12.35. Please don't be late.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u60	Please announce to the deputies the start of the meeting, the continuation of the meeting. I know. One hour and that's it. Yeah. Please come into the hall. Let us begin the discussion. Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna of the Communists speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u61	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Respectable people's deputies, respected members of the Government, respected television and radio listeners! It is not necessary to list once again the positive one that contains the draft State budget for 2008 proposed by the Government, a coalition of national unity. The Communist faction supports the Government's efforts to address the acute social problems. We're for increasing the living minimum, wages, scholarships, pensions. For the first time, the State budget provides housing for Ukrainian citizens. And, of course, that's good. We, the communists, support the proposal to strengthen public funding for high-tech aviation and missile-space industries. We support a significant increase in the financing of the agro-industry complex and housing and utilities. It cannot be seen that the 2008 draft State budget maintains the course taken by the coalition for accelerated and stable economic development, and we Communists will certainly support that. However, we also have serious comments on the Government's proposed draft State budget for 2008. By establishing a coalition, we stated that we would make the successful development of the State's economy a significant improvement in the material situation of Ukrainian citizens. It should therefore not only increase wages and social payments, but also increase production and improve its competitiveness. These tasks are met by the draft budget. But I would like to see public support for innovation programmes more substantial. There is a need for changes in the tax system that stimulates re-financing in industry, and for the accelerated introduction of innovative programmes. Systematic changes in Ukrainian laws were needed, and those changes should be made to the Supreme Council at the same time as the draft Budget Act. What positions of the draft budget for the Communist faction are unacceptable? Against what do we categorically object, oppose and demand to be excluded from the 2008 draft State budget? Social programmes are largely proposed to finance, including through privatization and the most unacceptable, the sale of agricultural land. It is proposed that land be sold to more than 2 billion bracelets, which, including social programmes and even housing. When people are living in poverty, we need to be very economical in dealing with government finances. We understand what our criticism will tell us, tell us where to get the money. And we'll tell you where to get these funds. Why is there a budget of 5 million bracelets for major repairs to the GUAM office? Who needs this? Why are more than 27 million bracelets budgeted for NATO programmes? Who needs this if the people of Ukraine oppose the accession of Ukraine to NATO? How much housing can be built if we save the funds that are being sent to the office today to the President's Secretariat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u62	Let me finish the speech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u63	We have long proposed the establishment of an order in the State monopoly and the introduction of a State monopoly on the production and implementation of liquefied and tobacco products. To put order in the gaming business, we are not in favour of the liberal treatment of the State with regard to the Tax Code. We believe that a progressive scale of taxation should be introduced. Today, more than a hundred Ukrainian citizens receive more than a hundred million dollars of money, why they should pay the same taxes as poor people. We are in favour of a substantial increase in the amount of debt in the draft budget for citizens'contributions, and this has already been mentioned today. We have passed a bill that has been blocked by the President and we believe that the President's veto must be overcome; within five years, we can solve the problem of paying off debts on citizens' contributions. It's a Communist position, it's constructive. We know that this can be done together and will insist that the Government take our proposals into account in finalizing the 2008 draft budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u64	Thank you. From the faction “Regions” – Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u65	Dear voters, dear colleagues! As a person dealing with more than 10 years of social issues and now heading a subcommittee on social living standards, the positive thing is that for the first time the minimum wage will be as close as possible to the minimum of living, it's a very important indicator. I would like to remind you that when Yashchenko was prime minister, the minimum wage was 35.6 percent of the minimum wage. In Timoshenko's time it was 73.3, now the living minimum would be 626 bracelets per working person, and the minimum wage would be 90.1 bracelets, and in 2009, this would be the first time in years of independence the minimum wage would be equal to a fully 100 percent minimum wage, that would be more than $100, or 500 with extra money. Next. I cannot help but note that as early as 2002, the Cabinet of Ministers decreed a single tariff network, and only on June 1, 2007, in line with the government’s decision of April 4, 2007, began to introduce the second stage of the tariff network. The figures were called, and the wages increased by 35 percent. In 2008, education spending will increase by 32 percent. But I want to make some comments from the government. The concept of “food minimum” is not permanent, it is determined by the way in which government and trade negotiations are negotiated. I'm sorry that my former colleagues have not determined a new minimum of living by now, but he's underprivileged today. And I'd like the government to review it if it doesn't go to the union federation. Because 564 1 January bracelets are about 20-30 percent smaller, and hence the lower minimum wage, the lower pensions, the smaller other social benefits. That's why I'm asking you to take that into account. Next remark. A very big deal will be done by the government when it allocates 11,000 dollars at the birth of its first child. But there's a law that provides that a once-in-a-lifetime benefit is determined for children under the age of 6. This minimum of living will change in 2008. And I think there's going to be a figure like this, not 11,000 700, but 11,000 932 bracelets, or 232 bracelets more, and so that there's no speculation around it, I'm suggesting that the government can slightly reduce 25 grand when the second child is born, 50 grand at the birth of the third child is not much. But the law 22.6 is clearly enforced. Next. I want to say that, really, the catalyst for social populism, Yushchenko, it's not hard to be the initiator of what you're not responsible for. On the other hand, it probably says that if Yushchenko calls such large social parameters he positively appreciated the government's action. This is the price of social populism. I've assigned my assistants, I've worked with lawyers, I've got economists, I've called numbers. Only the provision of child pay, the increase in minimum wage, and the increase in pension payments, are their programmes needed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u66	Let me finish for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u67	You have to spend 423.2 billion on this social populism, which is 52 percent of the gross domestic product. NUNS has to use an additional 288.1 billion as well. I mean, it's just the only political force that. A party of regions along with the coalition, the social accounts that are presented, each has a specific number, a specific calculation. So when people hear this social populism, especially when Timoshenko says it's going to come back in two hundred and thirty billion savings, or, let's say, the children of war will pay off, and there's about seventeen billion a year, we wouldn't want it to be used for political purposes. What the government has submitted is real, it's considered. It's every number that counts. One thing is for people to support the anti-crisis coalition. We will come and do honestly, fairly, to the end what we promised in 2006 and what is now budgeted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u68	From the Socialists of Baraniv, Alexander Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u69	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I'd like to start by saying that there's been an inaccuracy here today. My colleague Matthew said that it was worth advertising, and you called it a sum. That's what you did without VAT. And the VAT is equal to two thousand dollars one second. We've been promoting, so last Thursday, all of the advertising of the BUT party, so they're being used for television commercials within a million and eight hundred thousand dollars a day. It's purely for the record to be accurate. The Socialist faction took a pretty deep look at the 2008 budget, and we made our own conclusions and wishes. The proposed budget is a step forward in the social protection of our population and economic development. The 2008 budget practically confirmed the correctness of the strategic course of the National Unity Coalition and its government-formed government that only through economic development, sharp economic growth could social standards be raised, i.e. further increases in pensions, wages, scholarships and so on in 2008. The Socialist faction expresses its satisfaction that the proposals of socialists, including socialist Nikolaynko, are fully included in the budget. Yes, spending on education increases by 34 percent, as noted. The teacher's salary for the first category will be one thousand four hundred twenty-six dollars, and by the end of November, one thousand seven hundred and seventy-six dollars, I mean next year. We're taking into account our offer of a scholarship for young people who are studying, and today it's going to increase 530 dollars in higher education institutions. I hope we'll soon stop talking about a hungry student. It's quite a long way to go with the retirement rate, which is going to be more than 120 dollars for the next year. We see a positive budget, and we see 9 billion dollars from privatization going to invest, not to eat, as it's often done before. At the same time, the faction has a number of fundamental issues that are not taken into account or taken into account, I would say, at an inappropriate level and need a solution. First, it is a matter of funding the Social Protection of the Children of War Act. It costs about 8 billion dollars a year, not 17 dollars, as it sounded today. So the law works. No one canceled it. At the same time, protection is needed for those who grew up in years of war in famine, in cold, often without parents, from childhood to childhood to various diseases, who were unable to learn, who worked in the workplaces, and for the meager wages in the cities to rebuild our country, and who still lacked a decent pension because they retired in the years after the collapse of the Soviet Union. At the meeting of the Coordinating Council, where Mikola Janovich Azarov and the Chief of the Supreme Council of the Frost agreed that this year there would be 3 billion added funding, that is, it should be 4 billion. And we hope that the government will take this into account and the children of war, I think many of us today should be able to be sure of that. There was a question of savings. There's been a bill for a long time that we're still here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u71	We have not yet passed this veto bill, but we have today clear guidelines in the Supreme Council that one and a half percent of GDP should be sent back to savings and that can be done in the next 12 years. And that needs to be decided now. A reasonable suggestion and Alexander Moroz is that a special fund should be set up to raise money is the cost of a return on savings. And our faction is that at least 1.3 billion over the next year should be predicted or twice as much as this year. We believe that, and it would be appropriate for part of the funds, most of the congregation’s funds from environmental pollution to remain on local councils. And the last. I'm reading here in the budget, and you and I are all in the coalition doing what local councils need to do today. It is enough for local administrations to do the work of the people. But at the same time, I read in the budget, I'm just a paragraph, and it's budgeted everywhere. Grant the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the district government administrations the right to distribute an additional grant to level financial security and so on and so forth. So we're handing it over to administrations again. And I'm asking, why don't I? They have to be budget managers. And this also needs to be corrected in the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u72	Thank you. Mikola Zamkovenko from the faction “Bloku Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u73	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, honourable colleagues, members of the government, the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, was reviewed by the Government of Ukraine's draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2008 State Budget. While appreciating the overall positive position of the bill under discussion, I would like to point out that the draft contains a number of comments to be corrected by the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the working group. Of course, in such a narrow term, which is set for the speech, you cannot stop at all the shortcomings of the bill, but the main ones would like to stop. In particular, I am concerned about the financing of the judicial system. I ask you, Your Honor, to point out that there is no representative of the judiciary in this room. That's too bad. At first glance, due to the project’s position, the funding of the judicial system has been increased, but the positive developments proposed in the project are not enough. The independence of the judiciary in a civilized world is determined by the most important guarantee of quality and fair protection of the Constitution and its values, stability in the State, objective and impartial justice, the independent protection of the citizen and his rights. Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudokustra states that guarantees of the independence of the courts and the independence of judges are provided, including, and in particular, the financing and organizational security of the activities of the courts established by law. At the same time, it appears from the draft law that some of its provisions do not meet the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine cannot, when enacting the Law “On the State Budget of Ukraine, include provisions to amend the existing laws of Ukraine, suspend the application of individual laws, with regard to this appropriate clarification of the data by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in its decisions of 18.06. 2007 and 09.07.2007. It is also unwarranted to include in the draft law a provision on the appointment and payment of monthly permanent detention of judges by the authorities of the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which is in contravention of the Ukrainian Act on Sudokustra. This was also discussed in the decision of the Constitutional Court of 1806. In 2007 Another problem I'd like to hear today. The whole country was shaken by the report of an explosion that occurred at the Darnick district court in Kiev in 2004. All of this happened in 2004, and the impact of the explosion has not yet been eliminated. What can be said about the execution of justice by the judges of the named court if they are to be accommodated in eight premises located in different parts of the capital? There are other comments to the project that will be referred to the working group and to the Committee on Budget Issues. Despite the shortcomings contained in the draft bill under discussion, the proposed draft Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's 2008 State Budget should be considered by the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u74	Let me finish. Take your time, speak up, there's been a mistake.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u75	And to the end. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind and tell some of my colleagues who call us traitors. Social law must work in society. I will not punish with riches, and then I will use some politicians to choose for the sake of personal ambitions, but I will enrich the people. What we're meeting in this session room today and doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u76	Thank you. The cook has a word. He'll be followed by Dutch instead of Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u77	Dear colleagues! Boiler, Party of Regions. I think it's necessary for each of us to focus on sorting out the pay system, fixing the optimal differentiation of tariff rates and salaries, taking into account the complexity and responsibility of the work being done, which is a guarantee of overcoming the balance and in pension insurance. In due time, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decreed August 30, 2002, at number 1298, which provided for the payment of work in the budget area on the basis of the sole tariff network mentioned by the Stoyan national deputy. However, its implementation was delayed for a long time. For the sake of fairness, I will point out that the first stage of this network was launched on September 1, 2005, but with a range of one to 3.35, that is, practically the ratio of the salaries of employees of different qualifications remained unchanged. This year alone, the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic made a long-awaited decision on the second stage of a single tariff network, which allowed the range of inter-employment ratios to be extended, the optimal differentiation of tariff rates and salaries, taking into account the complexity and responsibility of the work done, and the increased motivation for the work of highly skilled workers. We know that in the current year, right from April 1st to July 1st, due to an increase in the minimum wage for budget workers, the average has increased from 400 to 420 and from 420 to 440. It grew due to an increase in the minimum wage, and from June 1, it was due to the introduction of the second stage of the single tariff grid. The additional increase in the salaries of budget workers is known to take place from October 1st in connection with an increase in the minimum wage from 440 to 460. In doing so, I recall that the introduction of a single tariff network provides an opportunity to increase the pay of work primarily to highly qualified professionals, such as a doctor, a surgeon of a higher-skilled category, a teacher of a higher-skilled category, and a social worker of the first qualification category, whose rate of growth is higher than, according to my previous estimates, the payment of multiple categories of civil servants. Overall, the average wage for high-skilled budget workers in 2007 will increase by almost 40 per cent. In the following year, as the draft budget shows, the government has planned a third stage of a single tariff network, i.e. its full implementation, taking into account the rise in the minimum wage, and what I said, the average wage will be raised by 37 percent. At the same time, it will not be unnecessary to mention those who have dedicated themselves to the public service, especially the middle and lower chain, which are grouped according to the categories of highly qualified professionals in the budgetary sphere, who, apart from paying for the conscientious service of the State, have no other source of decent activity and cannot. Many of them graduated from the State Service Master’s degree, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u78	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u79	The contest, and the call. In this connection, the proposal is to bring their work closer to the level of the single tariff network for the most qualified budget workers and not only for prestige but also for the purposes of the principles of both future and social justice. Thank you for your attention. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u80	Thank you. Boris Davidovich Daych is speaking. He will be followed by Zibenko Peter Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u81	Respectable Alexander Alexandrovic, distinguished colleagues, speaking today of the 2008 draft State budget for Ukraine as a socially targeted budget, cannot help but mention the crisis in the public procurement system for budgetary resources that artificially create our opponents and do everything to keep it going. The crisis has become a reality and no widespread, reassuring statements to the press about the leaders of the Chamber have been able to influence this situation. And that creates a lot of problems in our country. The supplier's factory refuses to pay murky amounts for participating in the supply of insulin tenders to each district hospital. The ambulances are running free of petrol, which is still to be delivered. There are no textbooks in many schools to date. The school’s summer vacation was nearly ruined. There is no food in the school cafeteria. And now we are at the threshold of winter, when it is necessary to complete preparations for the winter of schools, hospitals and other life-support facilities. And if these were unique examples, it would be possible to talk about non-professionalism in the field. If such facts become massive, the crisis in the tendering system itself needs to be changed without delay. I think the idea of centralization in the capital of all budget procurement has proved to be bad. And the Chamber of Tenders has taken over all the equipment it can't carry. There is a need to change the law. Our opponents don't want to do that and they're distracting us. And today, when we consider the draft State budget for Ukraine for 2008, we should, in my opinion, put into effect provisions suspending the provisions of the Ukrainian Procurement, Works and Services Act, which regulate procurement procedures through regional, regional, rural and rural budgets. The most reasonable thing would be to allow local government authorities before amending the State Procurement Act to form tender committees or commissions that would have authority to grant budgetary appropriations and related budgets for the acquisition of goods, works and services under a simplified tender procedure developed and approved.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u82	Let me finish my opinion on the transcript.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u84	Okay. Peter Stepanovich Cibenko. Follow by Ivan Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The review of the National Budget project of Ukraine has always been, is and will remain, one of the main tasks and functions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This process is always difficult, more so in a year of parliamentary elections. I have the impression that if the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as a project of the State Budget of Ukraine, had been offered a document that contained figures similar to those of the United States State budget, some of my colleagues from what is called opposition and would have blown it to dust and dust. In the meantime, considering the draft budget is trying to put together what we want to have and what we can afford from the state of the economy that is real. And as a Communist deputy, as the head of the social committee, I would like to see a number of social parameters of the project much better. And I'm going to fight for it, but I also understand that humanity has not yet found a budget mechanism to break away from the state of things in the economy. Thus, the first, perhaps not so far from the 2008 project of the State Budget of Ukraine. I believe that this project is a step forward compared to the budgets of previous years. How wide this step can be argued and debated, but that step forward is clearly. In particular, I am pleased that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has drawn a conclusion from the decisions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The document, at least in its social components, does not attempt to stop the norms of valid laws on the social protection of the most vulnerable. I saw in the document a series of social indicators that are slightly higher compared to the 2007 State Budget, which are sometimes much larger than the 2005 Budget. I welcome the government's efforts to make a contribution to the basic pension to all children of war, even in this kind of symbolic size. It's a step in the right direction. I want to support the project's efforts, to put in place a substantial, more substantial one, which means a more equitable two-per-per-cent supplement for each year of overtime, it's extremely relevant. This is one very important lady who now sheds a lot of tears about the people's fate, as Prime Minister, who has cut these benefits in employment pensions to the very root. And then the “orange” most helped her in this unworthy matter. I could call it some other things. At the same time, I think we all have to work very hard together to increase the minimum of living, especially for non-working people, because this is the basis of a work pension. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u86	Let's have a word, a word, let's continue, yes. Reasonable thoughts need to be fixed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u87	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. At the same time, I think we all have to work very hard to increase the minimum of living, especially for non-working people, because this is the basis of a work pension. I find it unacceptable that the subsistence minimum of this category is less than 100 to 150 dollars from other demographic groups. I want to warn the government not to try to play with the size of the payoff to the participants of the war until Victory Day. Come on, let's play, let's get this over with. Of course, additional funds should be sought to recover valuable savings. I think we should all be very careful about dating budgets to some areas and areas that use these funds in particular to encourage and support bloody thieves from UN UPA. I'm convinced that our collective efforts, including the MPs and the committees, will make this document more perfect. And about the suggestions. I'm proposing, your honor, to accept the draft of the State Budget of Ukraine, and not because it's too perfect either for me, let's say, or for the Communist faction, there's no claim to it. Yes. But I think that the non-admission of this document is a waste of time, of precious time. We're absolutely convinced that the collective mind of the MPs, the profile committees, we're going to work more closely on this document, and we're going to get a more socially meaningful document for the citizens of Ukraine, for the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u88	Thank you. Alexeiev has the floor, sorry, Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolaiovich. Instead of Baranowski, Alexeyev will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u89	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! National MP Bondarchuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnitzkin, head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. As a socialist and head of a profile social committee, I want to stop at the next. First. The general concept of the country’s main financial document for the following year stems from the coalition government’s programme of activities. So with numerous comments to this document, we, the socialists, will vote in favour of adopting the draft State Budget for consideration so as not to block the budgetary process. As far as you're concerned. First. I would like to say once again, on behalf of the committee, that we will not agree that the budget allocations for the return of lost savings for the following year are set at 750 million. Because this year we're actually going to have a billion, given 650 million in line with the budget plus 330, which we voted on June 27 here, to allocate in addition to the implementation of the Budget in nine months of the current year. So people need to know that for the first time in the last three years, they're going to get almost a billion out of 129 or so billion total government debt in this position, that the previous two governments haven't returned a single penny, and that's also true. So we're going to insist that the government predicts a return of at least one and a half billion in this, next year, and then we're going to go back to overcoming the Presidential veto to the GDP bill of one and a half percent for these purposes, plus to the consideration of the Alexander Moroz bill on creating a special fund to pay off these debts, so that we can actually solve this problem for six or seven years. The other one. Children of war. We're going to insist on a minimum of 3-4 billion, because this was promised last year at the approval of the State Budget and at the meeting of Mikola Janović Azarov with the heads of the district war children's organizations about to return to that figure. I mean, it's just about, because when we're talking about payouts, there's something about pensions, it's about being governed by the law, not. Why do we take 50 percent or 40 percent of the extra payments to war veterans? We have to take an appropriate amount from a minimum pension, as stated in the Law on Social Protection of War Children, that is, we manipulate numbers here and we trick, and we have to honour our commitments by demonstrating consistency, responsibility, loyalty to commitments.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u90	Thank you. The time of Alexeieva was used by Peter Stepanovich Cibenko, I made a mistake and announced it, but Stepanovich Bulba wants to speak instead of Šibk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u91	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! Of course, the budget presented for the following year is also a social one, it has a social dynamic towards housing and utilities, and the development of the territory. At the same time, I would like to make some suggestions that should be taken into account when preparing the project for the first reading. First. I think it's appropriate to predict this: at least 10 percent of the oil, gas, gas, gas condenser wages should be included in the development budget of the respective local budget of the extraction area, what will this give? First, the problem of financing environmental expenditure, restoring the development of the road network, the social sphere of cities and rural areas will be largely addressed. So far, these issues have been resolved through agreements between governments and oil - gas mining structures. For example, in 2005, as the head of the Poltava District State Administration, I was able to conclude agreements with such enterprises, structures and areas, and received twenty-two and a half million dollars for the social sphere of these areas, namely, the whole area. But this year, let's say I got an area of just 0.6 million. Twenty-two and a half million and six hundred thousand. Of course, if this is envisaged as a legislative rule in the budget for the following year, these issues can be dealt with more realistically. Secondly, this will ensure the development of oil and gas extraction by appropriate councils. The issue of land management for the development and exploitation of crops is still too difficult to deal with. The representative bodies are not interested in their assignment, which is used by the savvy parts of the heads of national governments, district administrations, and others who collect bribes for lobbying the necessary decisions. Another offer. When calculating inter-budget transfers, it is necessary to take into account the costs of extra-school education. After all, children's kindergartens, children's houses are financed by the principle of “who can, who can find, where to find these costs”. I think it's a national problem. It must be decided at the level of the state. And finally, as a representative of the National Security and Defence Committee, a few suggestions on this issue. We still have to solve the issue of eliminating the imbalances in the money supply of the various power structures. We need to solve the real housing problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u92	Let me finish this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u93	We do not build adequate housing for the military, and that is all the more so for those who have been released. A year later, for example, my colleague Sergey Redfoot, who had already spoken, said: “I have 12 apartments for military pensioners. While in 2005, let's say more than seven hundred apartments. The height of the apartment is a laughingstock for the military at all. One bracelet of 20 copies per family per month Grizzenko doesn't cook or cook about it. We need to get the Cabinet of Ministers to pay attention to this problem and take steps to solve it. So the Department of Defense should receive additional funds for the social protection of military and reserve personnel and those now serving in the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u94	Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich has the floor to speak for him instead of Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! First of all, Sergey Kuzmenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. First of all, we need to say that by giving a general assessment, because today we have a presentation, a general assessment of this budget, we need to point out that this budget is more or less a sequential implementation of these commitments that the coalition made during its formation and during its practical activities in 2006-2007. There is no significant deviation from these commitments in this budget. At the same time, once again, when we analyze the general budget indicators, we need to say what is satisfying and what it says about the social orientation of the budget. We have a year-by-year sequence, including, and next year, an increase in the wage fund in gross domestic product. This is the result of the social policy of the coalition, because the wages, the size of the pay fund directly depends on the minimum wage and on the salaries of the budgeters, which is set directly by the legislation. At the same time, I can't be warned as a representative of an industrial city, an industrial district of Zaporez and a committee from local self-government for a few moments. Well, first moment. Income from local budgets in the total income of the budget is only 25 percent. What does this talk about? The fact that we have local budgets remains the same as the beggars goes with their hand out and asks: “Give a subsidy, give a transfer, give it, don’t go anywhere in the bag, you know what else you can get. This is the principle of the position that we, the coalitions, need to work on in order to maximize our own incomes for local budgets. And I'm very concerned, the Baranian colleague has already said that, and I'd like to raise that question. Concerns the environmental congregation and the distribution of the environmental congregation among the subjects, as it were, of the budget. Today, about 65 percent of the environmental congregation goes to the central, to the State budget, and only 35 remain in place. So people have to breathe the air and drink the water of the citizens who live there, and the cost of taking off these problems, the pipe, and asking for them to go to Kiev. In my opinion, this is a totally wrong situation, and we need to put this problem on our heads, i.e. 65 percent leave it on the spot and 35 percent leave it on the State Budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u96	Let me finish my important thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u97	The same situation, unfortunately, with fines for environmental pollution. Same picture: 65 percent in the State budget, 35 percent in the place. Why? How can we explain this to the Maquis, the mariopolitans, the guards, the poachers, and so forth? Why do fines for pollution go there? I'd like to notice one more moment. Regrettably, the size of these fines does not encourage the fight against pollution. Well, imagine, all the fines are on the level, the state fines for the pollution of 12 million dollars. It's a laugh. These fines are higher in Europe. And it's where the owners fight to stop pollution, and we create tax conditions, pour and blow anything in the air. In general, I think that the budget needs to be taken to work and corrected by the shortcomings it has.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u98	Thank you. Platinum, followed by Baccheyeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u99	Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected compatriots! Today is a historic day like the day of adoption of the budget, and nothing, any expectations of our opponents have made it difficult for us to plan, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, to consider and adopt a basic State document, the State Budget for a Year, a document on which life, work, the health of our citizens, every small Ukrainian is dependent. I would like to stop as head of the Economic Policy Committee on the economic basis of the budget. First of all, I want to say that it is a well-founded, economic indicators for today are calculated and supported by the State's socio-economic development programme. I would like to remind the authors of the slogans of the socio-economic development programme “The Breakdown of the Ukrainian”, I am not a gynecologist to explain the word “breakthrough” in the understanding of our opponents, but I will say one thing in the fifth year when the author of the breakthrough was prime minister, the result of the nation's GDP was 440 billion dollars, today we are betting 810. I apologize to the people for the fact that when I headed the Economic Policy Committee, I made a commitment to my committee along with the government’s economic bloc in five years to double the budget. I'm sorry I made a mistake, we did it in three years, the budget that Mrs. Timoshenko was doing. It has not yet been possible for word and deed to be divided into coalitions. Today, the slogans of the opposition about inviolability. Today in the hall, we've taken you and, Mr. President, sign the rest of the laws and this bill. We don't talk about benefits, we've adopted a bill, we've decided to take them off and take them off. Today, the Committee on Economic Policy has adopted more than a hundred laws. Yesterday the government approved and accepted and sent to the Supreme Council the Social and Economic Development Programme, a core budget document and it will be adopted. I'll remind you that last year it wasn't adopted just because those boutiques blocked the shield that they didn't do, and the country again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u100	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u101	Thank you. No program, but on the first reading, and how the document was developed. And so today, I'm going to remind the authors of the breakthrough that the national experts, the national heads of the economic institutions of the state, the leading economists of the state have been preparing this program on the committee as well as the scientific advisers of the Economic Policy Committee, the National Programme for Social and Economic Development. Once again, I tell you that the faction of “Regions”, the whole coalition, is people of the word, which is confirmed by the work. And as an example, let me give you an example. I'm being led by the party, the party leaders have been offered a place on the list of illegal elections number 31. I asked the leader to add a figure of 231. And that's what happened. Why? I am convincingly confirming that we will win a strong, firm victory, the last of those populists who are not in the hall today. And if Mr. President breaks the laws and the Constitution again and approves a forgery that no one believes, but, if so, my number on the list will not allow me to sit here and listen to politicians and populists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u102	Thank you. I don't think you're taking any chances so work quietly, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Bachelor's word is Tetjana Dmitrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Health has always experienced the lack of the resources needed to protect the health and save thousands of lives of our people. The optimal need for a medical industry to budget more than 40 billion grevens. Nevertheless, the Government's contribution to the general budget of the combined budget to 31 billion grevens was welcome, which was 25 per cent higher than in 2007. The proportion of health expenditures in total GDP in 2008 is expected to be 3.6 per cent. At least five per cent of GDP is needed to ensure quality, affordable health care for the general public. Health expenditure per capita is increased by 113 grevens, from 492 bracelets this year to 606 bracelets in the following year. There has been a significant increase in the provision for public targeted medical programmes in the priority areas. For example, the immunoprotection of the population is 221 million grevens, 16 million more than this year. The draft budget provides for 237 million greaves, 37 million more than in the current one, which will ensure the full delivery of 74 tuberculosis patients. Also, 100 per cent of the annual tuberculosis diagnosis will be carried out for children and contact persons who are members of the HIV risk group. 112 million bracelets are planned for HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment, 16 million more than in 2006. Oncosa, including the Children's Oncology programme, provides for 218 million in the 2008 budget, 46 million more than in 2007. Unlike this year, 234 million sugar and non-sugar diabetes treatment targets are taken into account at the regional and budget levels of Kiev, Sevastopol. This represents an increase of 60 million bracelets in 2007, allowing for the full provision of insulin to diabetic patients. The blood donation programme and its components are budgeted at 38 million, 4 times more than this year. The highest priority required for an immediate solution is to increase the wages of health workers. At wage level, health care has been one of the last places in other areas of the economy over the past 10 years. This is the main reason for the shortage of highly qualified personnel — doctors, especially nurses. Implementation of the second phase this year.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u104	Let me finish my thought first. And, Ivan Sidorovich, there's a seminar to stop because you're in the way. Please, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u105	Thank you very much. We hope that the State budget will take into account proposals already made by the Committee and will also take into account the joint efforts of the legislative and executive authorities to move to fiscal medicine. The Health Committee proposes that the draft State budget for Ukraine for 2008 be adopted for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u106	Thank you. Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich, behind him, the content of Korsakov has already come forward; he has given his word. And then Ponomarenko will perform instead of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u107	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, a respected citizen of Ukraine, looking at the 2008 draft budget, I want to say that he is continuing his course of socio-innovation and investment in the economy of Ukraine in 2007. The budget demonstrates the consistency and stability of coalition and government policies, the rate of raising social standards, increasing wages and pensions, increasing spending for young families and young people, supporting military personnel, education, health care, students, it is only necessary to support them. However, I have a few thoughts about individual budget expenditures. I agree with Mikola Janović that what we need to call specific numbers, terms, to define mechanisms for the return of savings. We need to carry out an indexation of undervalued deposits. This is true, but our people are tired of waiting. Many of our citizens did not expect this compensation, most of them do not believe in promises. So right now, we need to show effective mechanisms and heavy sums of expenses to recover our citizens’ savings. I believe that these expenditures in the 2008 budget should be at least 1.5-2 billion dollars per year. As a representative of the Socialist Party faction, one of the most important issues is the social protection of children of war. The 2008 budget provides for 1 billion 700 million. This is three times what it was in 2007, but it is not enough to finance this law in its entirety. I believe that this problem should not be addressed by a variety of apherists, and we must hold consultations and find the funds needed to ensure the financing of this category of our citizens. I think we should do this today, before the vote, take a break, hold consultations and find this kind of cost. In the 2008 budget, spending and lending to the Ministry of the APC is projected at 13 billion dollars. Socio-economic development of the village is projected at 24 billion dollars. These are serious amounts, serious expenses, but they did not come and may not reach those most in need in the following year. They, in practice, show that most of them have stopped in those farms that are self-sufficient, which are profitable, which have millions of profits. Today, however, they are most needed in villages where Ukrainian land has not been plowed or sown for decades, where children are not born, where schools, kindergartens, clubs, and so forth are closed. There they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u108	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u109	We're here. Nearly $10 billion is projected for transport infrastructure development. That's good. Our roads should be better. An analysis of 2007’s repair and construction costs reveals that 90 percent of the expenditure went to public roads. And if you take circuit roads or rural roads, they haven't been repaired for 20 to 30 years, and they've been repaired for 40 years. Waiting for them to be repaired at the expense of local budgets is self - deception. We must find the funds today and anticipate repairing the roads of local importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u110	Thank you. Vasil Stepanovich, you should be aware that this is a presentation. We can either accept this budget or we can't accept it. These suggestions, what you're saying, are correct for the content of the document that is being considered. Georgi Grigorovich Ponomarenko is speaking. We'll continue to consult.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Committee on Budgets of the past, I should say that the government, when preparing the State Budget project, has taken into account, has tried to take into account the proposals made during the year of the government's operation, including in this room. Clearly, all comments, including those arising from the Constitutional Court’s decision to stop articles from social problems, cannot be taken into account. But it seems to me that as far as the decision of the Constitutional Court can be taken into account, the budget is taken into account by the government. We understand that in Ukraine, if not hundreds of depressive areas, depressed territories, and so the 2008 budget allocation, the budget projects, almost 150 million in these areas, will help to solve at least some of the problems -- and therefore the First-Major Kharkiv region, and Uzin and probably the Stahans, there will be such areas in each region. As a matter of fact, Catherine Semenovna Samoylik had already pointed to the problems of young people’s construction as a matter of her own. I think that the problem needs to be brought together, and the problem of paying for the birth of the first child, the second child, and the problem of youth construction is that we Communists offer to pay loans for the first child, 50 percent of the second child, when the child is born. I think we need to look at the financing of young people's construction. And the last problem, the subsidies, I think it's not one year it stands. Let's see, there's almost a billion dollars in subsidies for socio-economic development, for the elimination of accidents, 278 million dollars in gasification. Follow the 2000 decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the order of distribution of these subsidies, on the list of items subject to these subsidies. The most extreme period, I remember, June of the month. Last year, it wasn't government, it wasn't July, it was August months, it was money coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u112	Let me finish my thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u113	I propose a review of the order in which these subsidies are awarded, so that in February, in March, these decisions of the Cabinet will be made. I propose that you, Alexander Alexanderovich, accept this draft budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u114	Thank you. We used the time spent discussing this document. I wanted to draw attention to a few moments. It's consistent with the procedure that's more faithful with the procedure. The Budget Code sets out a procedure that was being prepared for the establishment of a coalition of parliaments and for the functioning of a coalition government. So there was a long time to do, say, by proving who works more effectively for people or parliament, its coalition, or the government? Today, this needs to be seen as the only whole, the only shared responsibility for making the budget effective. As a result, we must evidently go along with the government to bring it to such a state that it can then be accepted in the first reading. This is the first moment of the procedure. And by this point, I'll be back again. And I'd like to point out that all the suggestions that are being made here are right and they refer to a clear thing, not just the spending part, but the income part of the budget. But it seems to me that, from the point of view of the substance of today's political debate that is taking place in society and the speculation that is going on in relation to the coalition and the parliament as a whole, it is important to pay attention to one detail, which is somehow missed in our discussion beyond the attention of the MPs. Mikola Janović, reporting on the draft budget, said that we're taking down the problem of municipal payments. Prices and tariffs will not rise under any circumstances. So I think it's one of the characteristics of a project that's being proposed for consideration and in society, it would be good if even those that have been designed so far, the dynamics of which are reflected in the diagrams to be published in the newspapers, in the Government courier, in the Voice of Ukraine, so that people can get to know about what the government is offering for the cause and expense of the general, and the costs associated with social problems, with the creation of social guarantees for people. I would like to propose to the deputy, the First Deputy Minister of Finance, that Vadim Anatoliyevich think about how this can be reflected, at least in the newspaper Government Courier, that would be very interesting. Have you published yet? You see, even before it had to be done, they did. Well, let's take that into account. What, then, will happen to these comments that have come from the deputies? I have an offer to take advantage of last year's experience. He was effective. By the way, last year we were looking at a draft budget, a presentation on September 21. We then adopted a decree of this content: “The draft State Budget Act for the following year, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, is to be considered”. And the second question was to entrust the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the preparation of the draft State Budget Act for 2007, now the eighth year, before the first reading, to create a working group with two co-chairs, the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council Martinjuk Adam Ivanovich and the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, Mr. Azarov Mikola Janović. It consists of the Head of the Committee on Budgets of Mikola, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeinko, and three representatives of factions. And the head of the Finance Committee. And three factions. I think that would be quite right. The difference is that we're adding another head of the financial committee. But anyway, they're professionals who can make a powerful document. And the advantage is that these people remain unchanged both in government and in parliament. And what's interesting is that after the election, they're going to stay in government and in parliament. I think there's no doubt about that. So there is a very real reason to vote on this bill, the draft decree. What are you looking at? You don't? And your suggestions will be included in this document. Then your suggestions will be analyzed and entered. The language is only that we are taking this document to the Supreme Council. He doesn't want to propose any more. Please, Boris Davidovich, are you what? That's what I'm talking about, considering the discussion. Then, there is a proposal, in the first paragraph, to write: the draft Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for the Eighth Year, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be accepted for consideration, taking into account the discussion. At the second point, yes, given the discussion, i.e., assigning the commission to consider what we are here, yes. That is, the text I proposed to vote on, referring to it as ending with the words: “the commission, the working group, to take into account the proposals made by the deputies during the discussion”. You got it? I repeat: “The working group should take into account the proposals made by the deputies during the discussion.” Yes. May I vote? Let's put it on a base, and then you'll make a proposal. No, based on that, and then I'll give you my word. The project is based. Please. [[13:45:02]] For 259. As a basis, it's been accepted. Victor Ivanovich Majko, please. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u115	Alexander Aleksandrovich, I ask you to take into account the point that one who has failed to speak so that the suggestions made in writing are also taken into account. There's no objection.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-09-20-m0.u116	There will be three deputies in the task force from each faction. Please give them your suggestions or join this working group and work together. I think that's a good offer. So there's no need to reflect that in the text, because that's what it's all about. I'm putting the whole draft order to a vote. [[13:45:57]] For 260 Decision taken. I am grateful to all of you for your active work on this document. I declare today's session closed. If necessary, we can meet at a meeting when you are informed. Thank you. Success in the work you are doing today.
