ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, journalists and guests of the Supreme Council, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers! 14 today, Wednesday. I ask you to prepare for the registration of the deputies. There's a roll-up. [[10:02:22]] 248 deputies want to work in plenary mode. I declare the morning session open. Today's the birthday of the two deputies, I'd like to welcome them, and they're here: Mikola Alexiyovich Danilin and Vitaly Petrovich Zaboloticki. [[Applause]] At that age, it is true that birthdays are hardly celebrated, they are still young, and their prospects are in the parliamentary work, both in public activities, and in politics and so on, in front of everything, but they already have serious authority, so we wish them health, success in all their affairs. In accordance with the Rules today, we have time for national MPs to make proposals, to announce statements, and to report. So I'd like to write down some deputies who would like to make a statement. Please, Matvienkov. Oh, Boki instead of Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u2	Statement by the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The functional socio-economic crisis, which is unleashed by the Yulia Block Timoshenko and the Viktor Yuschenka Block “Our Ukraine” is striking the economy, which is being revived by the anti-crisis coalition. At the same time, the appetites of speculative capital, whose interests are represented by the same BUT and our Ukraine. Capital, which is convinced that the people of Ukraine are just biomass that can be fooled forever. By means of the curvature and deliberate deception of people, these forces want to lead the situation in the country to the election of the Supreme Council for the term. The so-called tariff era, which has its roots in rising gas prices, where direct culprits are President Yushchenko and Ex-Prime Minister Timoshenko, is used to create a political crisis, people's mistrust in the Supreme Council and government. The people need to know that speculative capital in selfish pursuits stimulates the rise in energy and raw materials prices, which are complex, which are damaging to the budget-generating industries of the economy, whose production is the absolute majority of Ukraine's expertise in metallurgical, machine-building, chemical industries, agriculture. There is now a favourable external economic environment for the production of metallurgy and chemicals, and it needs to be used to financially stimulate domestic economic development. The increase in domestic prices, however, does not allow us to take advantage of these favourable opportunities to fully increase budget income, to earn money for economic development, to raise wages, and to increase pensions. The need has finally come to light -- and this is directly what experienced production commanders are saying -- to crush domestic prices at the current level, simply to impose a moratorium on their growth. You don't have to be afraid it's not a market mechanism. This has been the case even in developed democratic countries in critical situations. The moratorium on price increases will stop the narrowing of the internal consumer market, since rising energy prices and services and consumer goods are ultimately paid from the budget of each Ukrainian family. Intriguingly, the pseudo opposition pays off the people. A domestic producer cannot develop without expanding the internal consumer market. Thus, the Socialist faction in the Supreme Council proposes that the Cabinet of Ministers consider immediately declaring a moratorium on all domestic prices in the state, including the price of consumer goods. The people of Ukraine should not pay for the political games of politicians from their pockets, but their economy should be a hostage of political adventure. Thank you for your attention. Ukrainian Socialists welcome the people of Ukraine with the first day of spring in style and with Jabdha. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u3	Thank you. Bogchuk has the floor, please, Vasil Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished voters. Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Almost at the beginning of this year, two district centers, Ternopol and Herson, had two unprecedented incidents that rocked these areas and even Ukraine. In Ternopolis, hundreds of workers from the local combine factory came out, covered the city’s central highway, requiring payment of wages. The debt amounted to more than three million dollars. In Herson, near the tocarnage, he committed suicide again in connection with the prolonged failure to pay the wages of a worker of the Hersonian Combins company. There was nothing to live for, the poor man himself and his family. Both companies are part of the lysing company Kragromashinvest, which has undoubtedly become an illustration in the language of violations of current legislation. It is such an enclave of misery, wickedness, and terrible criminality. Thus, the company's statutory fund was allocated to state-owned stocks of 13 open societies which, in violation of Ukrainian laws on economic societies, the privatization of state property in the absence of decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers, the State Property Fund of Ukraine, were led by the estranged managers of Ukraine's “Ukragrochasinvest” who carried out these operations and transferred them to the property of its subsidiary, the non-resident Ukraine. And that's one of the reasons why businesses like Ternopil and Herson's handicrafts have ended up in the mill, and people have no wages. The state's interests have ceased. There has been significant economic damage as corporate control of the activities of the companies mentioned above has been lost. There have been criminal cases, but as it turns out, the Attorney General's Office -- but as it turns out, they're also able to guide the privatizers, the hoodlums from the big road. The Attorney General put the case on hold and turned it over to the prosecutor’s office in Kiev. The latter assigned a review of the activities of the Audit Authority. What the C.R.E.A. means is not to describe or convey by word of mouth what the C.R.E. means. The activity of the lysing company Skrogrorashinvest is a complete crime. Thousands suffer, shareholders, and large economic damage to the state. But the co-workers at Kiev's Attorney's Office, in fact, ignored the audit board's data. I would like to make this request as a parliamentary request and send it to the Prime Minister and the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u5	Vasil Stepanovich, you are all related to the function of Kragrachasinvest, or as a request or a request to the prosecutor's office, let's prepare a request and have to be dealt with. Because privatization was not done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u6	There's a question, yes. So we have to do it again and demand a legal order. Thank you. Philindash, please, instead of Danilino.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u7	Honorable national MPs, radio audiences, television audiences, in the last days, have every reason to say that in Ukraine, indeed. Attempts of political upheaval have been intensified, as the opposition has so much to say. The question is, Who is the organizer of this coup? Answer: Not a ruling coalition at all. The whole country can see how, within a few days, one of the state authorities has been forced to declare their opposition not only to all other institutions of power, but to a large number of citizens — voters of the anti-crisis coalition. This, by the way, is not one million people. What we've all been able to read and see the media over the last two days, and basic logic leads us to conclude that in the opposition plans, Victor Yushchenko's current position seems to be being used openly by the President of Ukraine. Underline: They're trying to use the president. And it's like a time when the tail is always waving a dog that doesn't even notice it. He is now being pushed into political statements with a clear position, not as heads of state, but as heads of opposition, a man who opposes the legislative and executive authorities at the same time. Now, in fact, they are inciting statements that can be interpreted as an active role in destabilizing the situation in Ukraine. Look at the media, say how effective Parliament will be if President Yushchenko imposes a veto on all laws that will not be authored by any of the opposition's representatives. At the same time, it should be stressed that if such actions were to take place, it would not be the inefficiency of Parliament but, above all, the inefficiency of the President of Ukraine. What could happen next? Under this logic, the decree on the formation of an opposition shadow government that will work in accordance with the Byutian Opposition Act, the presidential commission of the newspaper cuttings as a basis, a gradual constitutional reform such as the Yeltsinian in 1993? We're going back to the realities of the early '90s, when the full series is being discussed, how much and what Nazgwardia should be subordinated to the President of Ukraine, whose Supreme Council, whose Government? I'm sure Victor Yushchenko is a man of the will and courage enough not to allow himself to manipulate himself and use his name to the puppeteers who are still not responsible for anything. I think that he remembers the plight of those who were free or arbitrary in their time as the political roof of Julius Volodymyrna, and must now first and foremost rely on the Constitution and laws and the choice of citizens they made in the last parliamentary elections of 2006. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u8	Malinovsky Alexei Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u9	Alexei Malinowski, Socialist faction, Cherkaschina Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of society and the general public to the problem of fisheries in Ukraine by example of the Kremenchuck watershed. For help. The Kremenchütsk watershed in the Dniprovské kascada takes first place in the productivity of fishing. The area of the reservoir is 225,000 hectares. To date, 56 business subjects have quotas and fishing permits. But the catch is decreasing with each year. By comparison, in 2001 the total catch was 100,000 tons and in the sixth year was only 36,000 tons. The main factors affecting the reduction of fishing are poaching in all its manifestations. Stealing fish by subjects of entrepreneurial activity by not counting the number of fish catches, using mild - tempered nets, and using nets above the established standards by duplicating logbooks. The main factor that led to the sharp decline in fish’s headland is the use of sewage during the predistinct period. So today the water level in the reservoir is at the last limit of winter exploitation. The fish is found in the old rudders or winter pits, at biological rhythms in the marshes, allowing its current catch to be effective. Nevertheless, the authorities of the first March of the seventh year issue 14 permits for the use of dragnets until the beginning of the restless period. This is nothing more than the sanctioned destruction of the mother’s headfish. The strange thing is that the permit is issued by the Central Prussian Basin, a government that is currently in liquidation. What is even more surprising is that, under the direction of the Committee on Fisheries, the formation of images from local fishermen will begin only on April 14, this year. That is, after the very active phase of fish litter. In fact, conditions have been created for poaching, for the looting of fish farming at the Kremenčuk watershed. I can state with full responsibility that all the conditions have been created to enrich the management of the State’s fisheries, as well as the owners of the fisheries and the law enforcement authorities who care about these problems. I believe that it is necessary for the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to address these issues in a substantive manner. And it's just a scream of the soul of fishermen who have been fishing for hundreds of years and hundreds of years in Cherkashchen, and today they have such sad consequences. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u10	Thank you. Alexi Petrovich, prepare a request, a department that is now created, and let him take care of the matter, because it is a disaster for all of Ukraine, for all the fish farming. Thank you. Instead. This is Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u11	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear colleagues, it is known that one of the most acute social problems in our society is the return of citizens to undervalued savings in the Soviet period. Regrettably, the State is very inadequate and inconsistent in its debt to its fellow countrymen. During the past year, more than 330 million citizens did not make it to the National Court of Auditors. The amount of $600 million foreseen in the State budget for these purposes. The Council's fairness is worth noting that the savings in 2006 were specifically and substantively recovered by the current coalition government, approving on 14 August the order for the return of savings, and by August last year, the citizens of Ukraine had not returned any bracelets. A similar situation is the return of the NSS “Oranta” and other sovereign debt. Expressing their concern about this issue, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine and the Committee on Social Policy and Work require the government to draw the right conclusions, to strengthen control over the timely and planned recalculation of the funds foreseen in the 2007 State Budget for the return of the savings of citizens in the Savings and Oranti facility by 1992 and to compensate for the losses from the lost savings. The SPI faction in the Supreme Council and the committee recommend that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine speed up the introduction of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Ukrainian Citizens' Savings in the context of speeding up the return of these savings using the experience of the SND countries in the matter. In order to protect the rights of citizens when considering the draft Ukrainian Law amending the State Budget 2007 Act, which we will consider this week, to foresee an increase in the budget allocations for the return of citizens to the sum of funds that were not used in 2006. So 330 million dollars, which were not returned last year, shouldn't go to waste, they should be plusd to the amount foreseen in the budget for the current year. In order to identify reliable and realistic data on the State's obligations to investors of the former Savings and insured persons to conduct the inventory of all accounts and insurance contracts and to create appropriate electronic registers of investors and insurers, providing adequate funding from the budget. By its concrete actions in this direction, the government should demonstrate its desire to make a substantive effort to address the problem of the return of their valueless savings to the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u12	Thank you. Instead of Kuzmenek, Sergey Redfoot is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u13	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished voters! It is known that the main issue of any revolution is the issue of power. Having lost power free of charge, the organizers of the so-called orange revolution are now trying to get a rematch without squirming, including dangerous methods for people and the state. The instigation of certain types of population, i.e. illegal actions, the creation of the so-called "national self-defence" and, in fact, fighting groups that study the tactics of action in urban conditions, the use of the full course of military terminology, we know all this very well. Still alive are those who more than half a century ago destroyed what was born under the drum fight on the field during the torch marches. I turn to the one whose will all of this is being done. It is very easy for you, from a popular lover, to become a cat of your people. The natural question is, Where did this money come from? Perhaps there are traces of half a billion coins that have disappeared from the accounts of our power forces. How is that understood, our opposition authority? Where are you going? If you don't stop, there will be grief, blood, tears, breakdown of the state. But in Ukraine there are normal and responsible forces capable of preserving the peace and future of our people. I'm going to have to go to the members of the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan, veteran organizations, veterans' organizations, veterans' forces organizations, the Armed Forces, all those who know very well what the dust smells like, which you revolutionaries haven't smelled yet, calling for a real national self-defence. You don't have to annoy us, or you'll have to remember your future of battle and give it to those politicians who, by blowing up the fire of civil war, are leading to the destruction of our nation. I have the honour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u14	Taddeev has the floor. You will? Please. Instead of Thadeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u15	Basil Yaduha, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, last Sunday in the city of Hmelnicki, there have been solemn assemblies where about half a dozen representatives of the three political forces who have created an anti-crisis coalition are the Party of Regions, the Socialist and Communist parties have signed a political treaty and have made a declaration of cooperation and coordination of our actions aimed primarily at clarifying the political and economic situation that is now in our country and, of course, to protect real democracy, to protect Ukraine’s independence, first and foremost, economic. It was during this period when the government of Ukraine, formed by the anti-crisis coalition, was operating in a stable manner when the government had for the first time rejected the policy of government spending on public funds, selling strategic objects to our state, and was clearly working to develop the economy, just when the government stood up to all the state standards it had spoken of, particularly social standards, that period, the opposition waged a divisive war against the government and against the anti-crisis coalition, in general against the ordinary Ukrainian people. The ma'am and the grief-stricken rescuers who drive and drive today are throwing bone to the Ukrainian people. I'd like to say, "Let's not buy this." As rescue workers in the area, and in fact, artificially, the Ukrainian people are suddenly being zombied. Today, the Constitution of Ukraine is used as a political battlefield, a divisive state. The constitutional guarantee, unfortunately, is that the President has rejected that part of the population of Ukraine, which does not divide, does not have an orange color. There are artificial demands, of course, by so-called, democratic forces. It's actually a democratic force that still hangs noodles in people's ears today. I mean, it's gonna be hard for us to buy for these goals and these methods of political struggle. Because that's what we know, after those loud words that the previous governments left behind. Not only empty executions, empty gas dumps, fuel depots, but mainly the social insecurity of the Ukrainian population, for which they are saving so much today. Yesterday, I was saddened by the statement by the headmaster of “Our Ukraine” on Ukrainian television, who spoke there for some kind of frame. Today, the district government has become the cells of “Our Ukraine”. Today, the cleaning lady, with all due respect to them, will soon be the head of the district government. And today we demand an anti-crisis coalition, we demand that the Ukrainian government carry out a serious political transition of executive power to preserve Ukraine's independence and improve the economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u16	This was done by the national deputy Vasil Yaduh. He'll be followed by Player Leonid Ivanovich, he'll sign up. Please. Then Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u17	Dear colleagues, you may have noticed that the destructiveness, from President Yushchenko himself and his Presidential Party, “Our Ukraine”, is practically manifest in everything, including the most difficult issue that has been passed by the State of Ukraine, with a view to restoring the legal relationship that the State of Ukraine today has with the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. You may have noted that the candidate of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ogryzko has demonstrated himself both in terms of Russian and in terms of absolute ignorance of Ukrainian legislation with regard to the functions and powers defined by the Autonomous Republic of Crimea Act on the Constitution of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I was forced to comment on the irregularity and, to put it bluntly, the Russianophobic statement by Ogryzko, to which I received an appropriate response throughout the Department of Legal Affairs of the Party of Our Ukraine. But the main thing is that after that, as the incumbent of Valentin Nátvajchenko's SB, without even thinking about reading it, without knowing the legislative basis, but following a political order, I immediately put it on the table, I mean through the media, a negative attitude towards that comment and practically developed the idea expressed by the Department of Our Ukraine that Grač should be brought to justice, no more than that, as it destroys Ukraine's State integrity. I've also commented to Mr. Nadjajchenko that political orders cannot be carried out, you can't think that you're, say, a 37-year-old security officer. And now, Alexander Alexandrovich, we've become brothers with you unfortunately. I know how some service listened to you, I followed you, and I went out to make an official statement about, I have information, I know even in the face of those special forces who received an unannounced order to follow me, to eavesdrop on my family. I think it's outrageous and I'm asking for my request. That my statement is to consider a request and to draw the attention of the constitutional guarantor, naturally to draw the attention of the Acting Chairman of the Board of Trustees to the unconstitutionality of their actions, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u18	Thank you. Chechtev and Stoyan are handed over the word. I'm standing, aren't I? Nutcracker's already on the line. Three minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u19	And Jadukha. Five minutes. Thank you. Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions. First, 2 offers. Dear colleagues, yesterday we worked hard with you. Of the 10 laws of the 6 laws, there were social orientations. It's also the Disabled People's Protection Act, it's also the Sick People's Protection Act, it's also the Unemployment Act and a lot of other things, i.e. they don't have any political decorations. I'm asking myself if there's enough conscience in the orange team to go to the President and ask him not to sign them. Is it enough for the President not to sign these basic social laws? And a second offer. That's what I want to explain to the voters. When we come to work, MPs, we sign up on the tables for showing up for work and getting paid for it. Today, the oranges, especially from BUTU, have been checked out, but look in the hall -- I want them to show -- they're not in the hall. Imagine a miner coming into the oven, signing up to go down to the mine. And he didn't walk -- that's what it's called in mining. He didn't walk into the mine. Imagine, the teacher came to the principal, checked in, didn't go to class. Imagine the cleaning lady came and looked at it, and on the dust in the office, she said, "Was at work." So I suggest, Your Honor Alexander Alexandrovich, that we don't vote here, in accordance with the Labour Code, everyone should get a job. Since yesterday, we have not paid the wages of these orange teams. We'll save a lot of money, and maybe we'll give it to children's houses, boarding houses. They will fulfill at least one responsibility in Maidan the rich will help the poor. [[Applause]] But I have a different subject. The theme of my speech is an orange wedding, a third series. During the long weekends, Ukrainians were curious to see the third series of marriages of orange companions. This time the marriage contract was signed: the head of the Party “Our Ukraine” but he is the co-founder of the Head of the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine, Victor Balog and the leader of the bloc of political parties, Yulia Timoshenko. The question is, Why is marriage so uneven? And won't other envious grooms who lead political parties that are part of the NSO Block - "Our Ukraine": Kinakh - Party of Industrialists, Tarasyuk - Ruh, or Stretovic - "Christians"? This means that their accomplices had publicly thrown them over the block. The signed treaty clearly states that these two political forces will be fighting together against the anti-crisis coalition. Here, the youths will go separately, calculate the dowry, that is, the percentages of the votes they have raised, and then divide the power according to them. This is the kind of marriage that's calculated. Not to mention the first series of this orange wedding, when at the end of 2004, another cavalryman in Maidan reported to Julia Timoshenko in eternal love. And the bride replied the same way, saying that political marriage had been for many years, for which she had been given the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. But they could not accept the godfather's “loving friends ” of the bridegroom with what reaches his beloved to all the state, its factories, factories. There was a divorce in Italian, violent. In 2006, the country watched a second series of orange films. Trying to remarry after the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the same actors and the same actions, but this time the wedding did not take place. And now we are witnessing the third series of this soap opera. The mystery remains: Why did the bridegroom Victor Balogah give Julius Timoshenko a small whistle, not a ring? And what does that mean? Maybe a hint of where her energy goes? And why the groom’s father, as the bride had asked, did not give her a gift in the form of an early election. That's what a fun orange movie is. We are waiting for the fourth series, the truth from yesterday morning began a new series called “Seventeen Moments of Spring”. So it'll be even funnier. That's why their voters are here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u20	Well, you can sum up the statements and the proposals made by the deputies. I understand Alexander Mikolaiovich's concern about the show, but now we have practice that after a few years we can go to the show. So get ready and don't worry, don't worry. What I am more concerned about is what Sergey Redfoot said today. And I think today, in Ukrainian society, it's smart enough not to let a confrontation, some civil confrontation, nobody needs it. It should be borne in mind that the issues of people’s interests are not resolved here, the interests of authority, of specific representatives, of those who organize the stock. Therefore, we need to be careful not to become entangled in such provocation. And in my opinion, there's still a lot to be said by the President, considering all the circumstances, the prospects, the possibility of events. In any case, sociology shows that people don't need it at all. But we also understand very well that money does not smell, and it is used here in quite large amounts. Of course, it's money that's escaped the possibility of getting into the budget and so on. There are no others. So this should also be meant for all those involved in the analysis of this situation and its, I would say so, localization in the interests of society. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have two draft bills on one subject almost, but on one subject, this is a bill amending the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act. [[on the formation and approval of prices/tariffs]] And a housing/communal service project to install water prices/tariffs, central heating and water supply. Yulia Timoshenko's project, delivered in exchange for the previous one. And I would like to report that Vice-Prime Minister Vladimir Rybak is taking part in Parliament's work, giving important importance to this issue. In order for these documents to come, I give the word for a report to Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, the author of the first draft, which I understand is in line with the Cabinet of Ministers. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u21	Dear colleagues! The housing crisis has long been a sign of a systemic crisis. And without the pyar-actions of opposition, we all understand that the current state of housing and utilities is not only very unsatisfactory, but it also poses a real threat to the national security of the state. The second is that the Ukrainian authorities are to blame for today’s lamentable state of our housing industry. And remember, in this room, how much housing and utility benefits have been produced year after year by year with manic stubbornness, by the Supreme Council, when governments are squandered, trying to please the electorate. Such practices not only hindered the updating of the basic production funds but also cooled down the management of housing organizations in reforming the sector. In addition, for a long time, tariffs on residential services for the population were administratively restrained by local self-government authorities. Invariable tariffs and budget deficits over several years to compensate for the difference between economically sound costs and valid tariffs have caused a significant deterioration in the financial and economic situation of enterprises in many locations and, as a result, the quality of services and the technical state of, above all, the entire property complexes of heat, water supply and water supply. As always, populism has been paid, paid, and paid by the people themselves because of the suffering of the people. So the solution to the crisis must be sought together by all branches of authority and all vertical powers. Third. The utilities that some people are now trying to translate indignation arrows are not charities. Their efforts to regulate tariffs are not necessarily the bliss of the leaders of the field or the lack of patriotism of the local authorities. What's more, after years of stability of energy prices, we've come across an unexpected gas problem caused by vulnerable politicians in the dramatic 2005-2006. So between the complete, absolutely irresponsible denial of the need for tariff changes and the repeated increase in tariffs, we need to find a golden middle. This is an economically sound price, on the one hand, a transparent and understandable tariff policy for people, on the other. In order not to allow tariffs to be imposed on self-driving or tariffs to be included in unwarranted costs, taking into account the complaints of politicians and the population at the central level about the rise of tariffs, the effective work of the Yanukovich government, which, through the work of specialised complex commissions, has been able to make a major improvement in the situation of payment on the spot and, above all, the city of Kiev, Bill 2197, which I am here presenting, which has been repeatedly worked out since the winter of 2006, proposes. First, with regard to the powers of the central executive authority, part three of article five should be inserted as follows: “The central authorities of the executive branch of the Cabinet of Ministers shall form, within their competence, a public policy on setting prices and tariffs for residential services. Dear colleagues, I will ask you to remember this position. It deals with Bill 3069, which we will discuss after me, authors Bondar and Timoshenko. It's about what you and I did in January this year, after committee hearings, that we created between the committee's government working group on housing and utility reform, if you recall, it's headed by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Valérie Petrosov, Party of Regions. So at one of the sessions, that is to say that the implementation of this provision of Bills 2197 and 3069 is already under way, the only state system for monitoring production, supply, transport, consumption and payment for fuel and energy resources and residential services was presented. Dear colleagues, this working group has entrusted the Ukrainian National Deputy Vasil Kulbida of “Our Ukraine”, I believe, one of the most successful mayors of Lviv, to prepare a draft law on the National Commission of Ukraine to monitor the implementation and improvement of this single state monitoring system. To implement a single monitoring system, we need government support. I think the newly created Ministry of Housing-Communication is actually involved in this case, so that the monitoring will work, there will be experiments in several areas, and we have implemented this practice throughout Ukraine. By the way, I think there might be a future minister of housing and utility among those members of the working group. The other one. Part One of Article 20. I remind you, this is about consumer rights. And I would like to remind you that in its own time, housing and utility subsidies were regulated by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers. It is proposed that article 20 be added to the Law and that paragraph 9 be completed in such a way as to legally enforce the right to an addressless grant. Dear colleagues, the bill offers 20 percent of the monetary income -- for all citizens and 15 percent -- where people who live are children, people with disabilities, people with disabilities, people with disabilities, and people with 15 percent of the average total income. Dear colleagues! And the final position. The point is that in other bills, I and Bill 3069, which will be discussed, contain other interest rates: 15 and 15. I think there should be differentiation: 20 percent for everyone, and 15 percent for people who can't pay. And the last. The working group and bill 3069 provided for this provision, that local self-government authorities would approve prices, housing and utility tariffs only if the central executive authority determined by the Cabinet of Ministers on the economic basis of the accounts was reached. As I turn to the session room, I ask that Bill 2197 be taken as a basis and that when I work on it, I take the position of Bill 3069. Because if the price of tariffs is to be applied to world energy prices or to the average wage of the economy is to be discussed, we need to listen to this bill regarding part of the amendment to the Ukraine Oil and Gas Act, which has been produced in Ukraine, which has been repeatedly written and emphasized by our electorate. I'm asking Bill 2197 to take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u22	Yes, wait, dear fellows. If you have any questions, please sign up. Take a closer look. Yeah, let's take, let's take, well, 10 minutes. Perhaps everyone will be able to ask questions. Leonid Mordovian, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u23	Dear Jaroslav Mihajlovich, Leonid Mordovitz, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Well, we are now witnessing that for the first time in years of independence, today's government has become systematically involved in housing services. I have this question in mind. In your opinion, what are the first steps that must be taken to fundamentally reform the housing and utility sphere so that we don't have to tackle these holes that arise every year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u24	Dear colleague, you are certainly right. A comprehensive and systematic approach is needed to carry out the tasks that we will set before us. First of all, it is necessary to provide economic justification for housing and utility tariffs. The other one. Create conditions for economic incentives for operators to improve their efficiency by perhaps introducing our changes and tax legislation. Third. Involvement of financial and banking institutions in lending energy-saving technologies. Four. Establish mandatory statistical reporting on the use of energy resources and the introduction of mandatory technical audit at residential and utility enterprises. I want to tell you the first decision. In the autumn of 2006, the government of Yanuković was dedicated to developing these issues. We know them, and we call for cooperation by all political forces or opposition or opposition -- it doesn't matter. This matter applies to everyone and everyone!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u25	I can't see Bondarenko. Bogchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u26	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party. Ternopil. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, I support your bill with both hands and I think it needs to be accepted today. But what I'd like to say is that today, what's in our 2007 budget, where about three billion people have been set up to reform the housing and utility sector, other expenditures that are going into the state today on housing and utilities, I think that's too big. And today, by analyzing the processes that are going on in other countries, we see that housing and utilities in all countries are the most profitable. How long does it take us to get this area out of a bad environment?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u27	I think that the solution to the problems of housing-communal damage is directly proportional to the efforts that we're going to take to get out of the crisis. You can see how much there is piled up around housing and utilities: and unfunded, unwarranted benefits, and the absolute balance of whole property complexes. That's why we're going to be voting with you soon for the 2007 budget changes. I'm asking you to pay attention, there's a number of housing-communal subsidies, please note, there's figures there -- the funds we're going to allocate to the local councils, the grant for compensation. All these things have to go. And we have to ensure that we have one -- hard control so that these funds that we have from the budget, the general budget, are allocated to housing and utilities to be used in full. Then we'll have success in building housing and utilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u28	Please, Stoyan, the author of the poem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u29	Alexander stands, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear fellow Suhi! You know, according to the Local Self-Government Act, housing-communal tariffs are set up by the local self-government body. In your opinion, could the Constitutional Court intervene in this process and in its decision to prohibit such tariffs? That's the first question. And the second question. In addition to the fact that you're reporting the law now, and we're being accused that the Supreme Council has done nothing before, could you name any action specific to the Supreme Council that has already done to prevent a sharp rise in prices for utilities? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u30	Thank you. Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich! You must have forgotten, I want to remind you. In 1998, at the third call in this session hall, you were the author of a bill on temporary ban, remember, raising prices and tariffs for residential services. I remind all my colleagues and especially those who are now watching and listening. Dear colleagues! 02.03.99 and in February 2000, the Constitutional Court made it clear that any attempt by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to interfere with the tariffs did not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine. And one more thing. In 1999, we tried to interfere with the Law on Prices and Prices by entrusting the Cabinet of Ministers with setting these prices. And this decision was overturned by the Constitutional Court, which made it clear that the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Government of Ukraine outranks its powers, has no right to interfere with tariffs. The only thing we can do right now is what the Supreme Council of Ukraine is doing -- we're implementing a single, clear electronic system for monitoring consumption and expenditures in the housing and utility sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u31	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u32	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. The Communist faction will support this bill, Jaroslav. But I'd like to ask you a question. We have also suggested, when we discussed earlier, that it is necessary to reduce housing and utility payments from income levels. 20 per cent is high and 15 per cent is high for retirees. How do you feel about our offer?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u33	I've got a bill in my hands, and we're having a hand-delivered, esteemed colleague of Mikli Melniczuk 3059, which is about 12 percent of the total income of such a family. I'm sure until the second reading of this bill on the committee of a colleague of Serbians. I want to tell you that this committee is working like clockwork, despite the fact that it's now forced to be absent in the hall because they're out there in the spring, so they have a spring train to go out for a walk. This bill will be considered for second reading there, and you and I will consider these percentages of compensation, but of course this should be an economically sound norm. I'm definitely against all getting one percent -- 15 or 12, let the rich pay, and they're rich. The rich must pay for the poor, the healthy to treat the sick is the principle of a socially just social state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u34	Anatoly Horbatuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u35	Dear Jaroslav Mihajlovich, please comment on this situation when the leader of the opposition is visiting the regions, and the councils are lowering the tariffs on residential areas. Yes, in Lutsk 10 percent after the visit, tariffs have been reduced, but no one says today that these tariffs are being reduced by the city budget in part, in part, in part, in part, in part, in part, in part of the budget. At a time when, in the same water channel, we can suspect managers, when almost half a million private lawyers are listed, almost 300 for computer technology systems, i.e. they don't work directly by tariff cuts, but they want to fix this 10-percent position at the expense of the city's budget. At that time the roads are not repaired, the hospitals and schools are not repaired, and we see.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u36	You know, if there's an economically sound tariff, there's no need to interfere. No emissaries, no commissioners, no more pear action. If one of Kiev’s national deputies, or from the Ministry, from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, has been able to see that these tariffs are economically unfounded, it is clear that the City Council’s session should bring them into line with economically sound costs. That's the first one. I wouldn't, you know, throw myself at the opposition that's now trying to make a capitalist because it's an opposition, it's doing what opposition does all over the world -- it's scandalizing, it's debasing, it's trying to get attention. But here's the other thing, and I would ask that the mayors of the cities who are listening to me right now understand and remember, no one would change the norm of the basic law. If tariffs are set below economically sound, the local budget will compensate for the difference. And what Hmelnick is missing is about 20 million dollars, it's not going to go to the roof, to the inland roads, to the elevators, and to other improvements in housing and utilities. Populism is what he pays for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The committee is a member of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Demčishen Vasil Vasilovich. Please, the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u38	This bill, which Jaroslav Mikhajlovich has just reported, at the end of the day, translates political speculation around such an important and complex housing problem. setting prices for residential services from the plane of some political speculation to the economic plane. The bill provides for the decision to be made at the legislative level of the Cabinet of Ministers in the area of housing and utility pricing, as set out in article 116, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine provides financial and pricing investment and tax policy. The bill also regulates the issues under the legislation that now regulates the establishment of subsidies for the settlement of housing and utility services. And our committee has considered all the proposals proposed by this bill. That's the fourth option. As a result of violent, let's say, discussions around this project as a whole committee support the bill as such that it will be able to resolve and resolve the sharp issues that are now around this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u39	Thank you. Wait, please. Perhaps there will be questions? Yes, if so, sign in. Vasil Vasilovich, please come back to the rostrum. There's a question for you. Then let's do five minutes. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u40	Vasily Vasilevich. Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Please tell me that we have studied this bill carefully at the faction meeting. The only question that we have is that of 20 per cent, so to speak, of total income on subsidies and subsidies for Ukrainian citizens. What the Committee's opinion is in this regard. Have you not considered with the Government the proposal to reduce this plan from 20% of the current to 15%, in order to actually protect the low-income sectors of the population, thereby shifting the burden on payments to the category of people that we can increase by means of, let us say so much higher fees for increased areas and so on and so forth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u41	Thank you for asking, the question is also a good one. I think we're going to go back to that question and it has a solution. Because, in fact, a lot of people are going to stay out of this, these categories of people who won't be able to get a grant. But this will be considered and decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u42	Leo Gnatenko, please. We welcome the participant from "Our Ukraine" who participates in the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u43	Thank you. National MP Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs, Block of Our Ukraine. Vasil Vasilovich, I have a question for you: the fact is that there are very few calculus that can protect a particular person today from burning gas in Ukraine, well, in Kiev today. They've been burning the gas for a month, so the batteries are hot. In this bill, what are the functions of the Government to control that the gas is incinerated according to the temperature regime and that this burden is not transferred from the consumer's pocket to the pocket of the person who burns the gas?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u44	Thank you for asking. You have a draft decision in hand with this bill. There's no, I don't think there's a lot of detail about how to deal with these issues, but it's also a difficult question. You know what the government is doing now. Well, in addition, let's say I've allocated the money to buy counters. And this issue will also be regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u45	Alla Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u46	I'm satisfied with your answer to the question I just asked. And I hope that, in the process of implementing this law, the Government will develop monitoring mechanisms that will, in fact, allow for a rapid solution to the issues of cost, the return of funds to utilities and, at the same time, take into account the level of income of citizens. Therefore, I propose that, as soon as possible after the adoption of this law and the second reading, I should like to propose that the law be put into effect as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u47	Thank you for your support. Once again, I want to call upon all the deputies to support this bill, because I really agree with you that it is very necessary, and it must have been accepted at a time when there was a sharp discussion, and it became very acute in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u48	Please, Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u49	Thank you. Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Dear Vassil Vasilovich! Of course, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this law in the first reading. But I also wanted to make those warnings that were made by my fellow Ukrainian national deputies, by the way, from various totally factions, about, indeed, quite the high percentage that is foreseen in this bill. I would like to hear again from you that we will work with you on this law for a second reading, understanding that the government of the anti-crisis coalition has received a terrible legacy from the Orange Yule and Victors, who, in fact, will do everything to make Ukraine a terrible crisis and to throw our people into this terrible pit. We understand all of this very well. But we have to trust people too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u50	Thank you, Catherine Seed. And once again, once again, when I've accepted the first reading, we have the opportunity, and by adding you and all the interested MPs, I think that in this room, we're all interested in really, let's say, solving all the issues in the housing and utility complex, we can't, because it's a very complicated legacy. For a very long time, the state ignored the situation in the residential complex. What we've been getting from this network since Soviet times, and what wasn't funded, it's all on the left-hand side. And what you're saying is that maybe today we're looking at 20 percent, we need to look at and consider the situation so that there aren't many people left who can't pay off outside the state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u51	Thank you, Vasil Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, you know that in our time we have considered Bill 3069, authored by Timoshenko and other members of their faction. The bill did not receive the required number of votes. But in good faith, the Conciliation Council agreed to go back to the draft bill, taking into account that we are currently considering the bill or considering Bill 2197, which was sponsored by Jaroslav Suhi. So we make this exclusion, another exception, even though the reporter is not registered, but there is, as it were, an offer to give them a word. Bill number 3069, reports Bodnar Olga Borisovna. Please. And prepare for Serbia. Next, the meeting is chaired by MOROZ O.O.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u52	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u53	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, honourable chairman. I am very grateful for the opportunity to report this bill, which is extremely urgent, and I think that what we started doing back in December, in January, to which we drew the attention of the entire room, the violence worked. I'm glad that you also realized that you can fix the situation in the way that we proposed back in January, but we have also managed to add a lot of positive things to the bill that we proposed in January in this room. Today, throughout the country, local authorities spontaneously, without any rules, raised tariffs. The level of this increase is 3-4 times. From this rostrum we have already called the figures for new tariffs in different regions. For example, the cost of heating per square metre in the Donetsk region costs 5 rubles 10 copies, and in Chercas, 1 bracelet 90 copies, which clearly shows that there is an unreasonable definition of payment. Why this difference exists is not explained by the technical state of the measure or by the corresponding economic calculation. People just don't have the money to pay for these new accounts. They're desperate, they're dating citizens, they're asking questions about what to do with the payments they get. People don't know if they're going to die and pay, if they don't pay them at all, and then housing and utilities, which are going to be in a state of poverty today, are going to lose their existence at all. By the way, there is no improvement in the level of services. On the contrary, the question is that there is no problem. Today, under pressure of opposition, the government has acknowledged the need to reduce tariffs. But what guarantees that this will happen to all governments? Society should not suffer from experiments conducted by the authorities. I think that under such conditions, we should, within the framework of the law, define safeguards for an unjustified increase in tariffs. Actually, this is the bill that I have the honour to present to you. What is it about? First, the setting of housing and utility tariffs refers to the competence of the central executive authority, which is to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. Why so? Because, first of all, in the course of the negotiations, this decision was made by all, let's say, all political forces. And we think that if this central authority of executive power is one, it will be easier to control its activity. This will allow us to pursue a single government pricing policy in the area of housing services. It cannot be that the size of the tariffs depends on the conspiracies of local officials. Secondly, the law enshrines the right of citizens to a subsidy. Today, this issue is settled only within the framework of legal regulations that prevents a person from feeling protected from unwarranted tariff policies. Imagine, the Cabinet of Ministers decrees a list of the terms and conditions for receiving subsidies and a list of the prohibitions, more faithfully, the conditions under which you will not receive a grant and you will come to CHEK -- and you are given completely different conditions under which you will definitely not receive a grant. For example, doctors, doctors. These categories of the population have become extremely vulnerable when they are unable to exercise the right to receive a grant. We suggest that the cost of housing services be no more than 15 percent of the family's income. If more, every citizen will receive a legally guaranteed grant. Today, there are 20 percent and 15 percent for a particular population category. We predicted that a mechanism for a particular category of population could be regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers. Because we predicted that the order of grants would be established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. So that population category, which has some physical flaws, or, say, war veterans, other population categories, they're already going to receive a smaller, less faithful subsidy from the Cabinet of Ministers. People cannot spend virtually the entire family budget on utilities. Under such circumstances, they simply stop paying them. As a result, there is a crisis of non-payments and the destruction of all housing and utilities. So in the next part of the bill, it's proposed to ban the increase in housing and utilities tariffs more than the rate of average wage growth. If the increase in tariffs is indeed economically justified, the authorities must ensure that people's well-being increases adequately, as provided for in our Constitution. The increase in housing-communal tariffs can only depend on conditions that do not depend on economic and entrepreneurial activities that ensure the functioning of the housing-communal complex, that is, if the cost of electricity increases, please, then the Cabinet of Ministers can consider this issue. Finally, the bill proposes such innovation as the amendments to the U.S. Oil and Gas Act. This is a very important question. It envisions the implementation of Ukrainian natural gas for the needs of Ukraine’s population, virtually at cost. This question, including the question raised repeatedly in this room, and so did it. each of you and the leaders of your factions have been asked by representatives of the All-U.S. Council of Churches to review the possibility of paying for gas to religious organizations whose statutes are legally registered to pay the cost of gas as well as to individuals, since this is a specific institution that is not profitable. I think today is an absolute axiom for everyone that every person in the country has been affected by a tariff disaster. And I urge the hall to unite around the solution to this problem. If we compare the two bills proposed by our colleague Suhim and ours, you can see that ours is more complete. It is a pleasure that many of the points in the discussion with Mr. Jaroslav have entered into his bill. And this is a testimony to the fact that we stand in the right path just what we told you back in January. These standards are acceptable now, I take it, to everyone, because the faction of Communists also thinks they should be supported, even though there was no such understanding in January. Unlike the previous report in our bill, there is a limit that 20 percent, which did not like the part of the room, is reduced to 15 percent. And at the time of the negotiations with colleagues from other factions, we knew that the Cabinet of Ministers was satisfied with that limit. So this is the agreed border with the Cabinet of Ministers. And I'm also telling you again, please note that our bill is more complete, because it still has regulation of the cost of gas and also this gas of Ukrainian production, which will be easily delivered to every Ukrainian citizen at virtually its own cost. So I suggest you support our bill and take it as a basis. The draught of a fellow Suhago is to be taken into account when working on the second reading of our bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u54	Thank you, Olga Borisovna. The question is to Olga Borisovna? Please sign up. As long as the MPs are recorded, Olga Borisivno, if you take it, this is a 15 percent and 20 percent difference principle, I know that many people went to the election with a requirement, 12 percent to be. Obviously, there is objectivity. Please tell me that this consists in terms of subsidies, growth, the difference in subsidies, because we have to give a clear answer to this question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u55	So Suhi's colleague here has already consulted on this, and he says it's plus 1.5 billion dollars. But if the Cabinet of Ministers is going to do that, I think they know where to take them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u56	Right. Please, Quick, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u57	Please give it to Melniczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u58	Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u59	Dear Olga Borisovno! We're grateful that you've put the bill so far, and I have two questions for you: and do you know that housing and utility prices were shaped by local authorities on the basis of decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers in 2005-2006? And isn't that obvious hypocrisy when you're struggling with a phenomenon that you've given birth to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, and perhaps in an appeal to you, I want to say that not all of Ukraine's life is tied to those two years of our stay in the Cabinet of Ministers, even Ukraine's independence a little longer than what you're throwing at us. So the formation didn't start with us. And in finding and leading the Cabinet of Ministers by Yulia Volodymyrical this issue was regulated by the fact that, firstly, prices rose adequately, wages increased, pensions increased, and the raising of municipal tariffs in that scale was not, it grew proportionally after public hearings were carried out under the law and they were economically sound.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u61	Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u62	Please pass on the word Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u63	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u64	Thank you, thank you very much. I want to ask you this question, but first of all, please don't lie and tell me that you've forced the government of the anti-crisis coalition to pursue tariff policy. Before that, it was all settled. You'd better answer because you're setting an example for Donetsk now, and you'll remember Lviv, what did Julia Volodymyrna from Lviv come with? But would you please give me Olga Borisov's answer, which of your party members, who make up the majority in the areas where the tariffs were raised first, have you expelled members of your party? Because the first ones to do so were your representatives, yours, yours! And you don't have to lie deceitfully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u65	Thank you for asking. It's more political than it is about drafting this bill, so I can say that not only can we refer to the Yulia Timoshenko Block in places, we have to think about everyone who was there and voted for them. And what does "most" mean, and what does "you" mean? This means that our head is the Cabinet of Ministers, which forms a price policy in the housing and utility sphere, and when it was ordered in September months to raise prices for gas and electricity from the Cabinet of Ministers, the commission to review tariffs was thus reviewed. But there were no instructions on how to do that. And each one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u66	I'll bet you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u67	Catherine of Simeon! Olga Borisovna! Don't quarrel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u68	We don't fight.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u69	The question is a little different. Matthew asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u70	Please pass the word to Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u71	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u72	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear reporter, as a human being, as a deputy, as the head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, it is bitter to realize that a life-threatening problem has turned into a different map in the political struggle. And it's because, first of all, of your faction, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Why do I say that? Because in the original version of the draft law, a maximum total income ceiling of 20 percent was set for low-income citizens. When the Communist faction began to insist on 10 percent. And the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine passed a 15 - percent decree. Then you got caught up, and in order to enjoy yourself, even more people reduced the bill to 12. I think it's just pear-ak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u73	Thank you. But it's not for me, it's for a colleague who proposed a third 12 percent bill. Our bill is 15 percent. And that 15 percent didn't come about because we wanted to put someone in there, because in the course of the negotiations, after we discussed this bill more than once in January-months, and when you made your proposal to lower this plank by 20 percent, we proposed that it be reduced by 10. But you remember that after that you offered for ten, and we agreed. And then we put 10 percent. After that, however, there was a meeting of the Conciliation Board, after which a working group was formed. And the working group is already in consultation with the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers is still regulating the price policy, agreed that this could be 15, otherwise the Cabinet of Ministers can't lower it by 10 percent. So you don't have to say that this is our own personal decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u74	Thank you. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u75	Dear Olga Borisovna, I think people don't care who the author of the law is. The main thing is to resolve this painful issue that really concerns the people. I want to ask you. In fact, you have a benefit in your law, but in my opinion, the more thorough law of Jaroslav the Dry. If you want not to lose all the positive things that are in your law, or do you agree to support it, take the law of Jaroslav Suhogo as a basis, because we are certainly voting for it, and include your proposals. If that's not the case, why do we have to fight it? We vote in favour of the Dry Law, but then all your positive suggestions will be lost. Let us, in the name of the people, find compromise and adopt a harmonized law that will address many issues related to utilities? Do you agree to make proposals to the law of Jaroslav Suhi during the second reading? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u76	Thank you for asking. But it looks more like an ultimatum than a question, Mr. Alexander. Because you have just said that you will vote for the law of the Dry One, and you will definitely not vote for ours. I can say that. The Law of the Dry One is not bad because we worked on it together. But in our law there is more money, and in our law there is an attachment to the fact that the cost of utility tariffs cannot increase faster than the average wage. In our law, there is a standard that provides for our Ukrainian gas, which should go to the population of Ukraine. There is no such thing as that of a colleague of the Dry One. So our bill, it's more complete. I don't reject that we can work them together, but I'm just saying, because mine is more complete, so of course I'm proposing this on the basis of the brothers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u77	Instead of Korsakov Bondarchuku, they agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u78	There's no wanters?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u79	Ivan Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u80	Dear Olga Borisovno, I understand that it is not a royal matter to report the bill in person, because the author is Julia Volodymyrna, the main source of the draft, to shine. But I realized that you're familiar with both Suhigo and Mikhail Melniczuk's bills and tried to convince you of the advantages of your bill, compared to two previous ones. I have a question: would it be inappropriate for you three authors to come together and try to draft one bill that would secure more than 300 votes? And maybe the ambitions of the author of your bill don't allow that to happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u81	Thank you for asking. I am even more convinced that we still need to pursue a gender policy. First of all, I don't do corn, second of all, if you can read, please read that by Timoshenko and Bodnar. Bodnar is actually me, so please read a little bit more carefully. There's no politics here. The point is that we have already worked together, and we have discussed this subject with our colleague Suhim and representatives of other political forces. But it's not like this bill in the hall didn't get 300 votes, it wasn't even considered. Now that we have to actually solve this situation under one of the political powers that you've already chosen among yourselves, of course I know that I can only report and explain to the citizens of Ukraine, which makes my bill different from Mr. Suhogo's bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u82	I support Olga Borisovna in this regard because she really worked on the law on her own. Kuzmenko. Instead of Kuzmenek Filindash.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u83	Eugene Filindash, Socialist faction. Dear Olga Borisovna, two questions. First of all, I'd like to show you where the bill predicts a reduction in existing housing and utility tariffs -- that's the norm. Or then admit that there is no such standard, because at least I haven't found it. That's the first question. Secondly, what exactly should the local authorities do if they have to set tariffs below economically sound production costs? In that case, where does she get the money? Is there supposed to be some kind of budget subsidy? Where does the bill establish that local councils should do in such a case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u84	Thank you for asking. But we are now, if Comrade Filindash wishes, we can meet. I'm going to show him a law that's worth reading, because it's very important in this area -- it's a law that actually changes Mr. Suhim and me, which clearly provides for this rule. If all of a sudden some costs are actually going to be higher, they're going to be financed, but now it's about what's happening now is that the uneconomically sound rise in municipal tariffs is now happening. If they were economically justified, not all cities are now indignant about it, because in some cities the governance of urban self-government has been more humane. And using correctly the possible scales given to them by the state, it was given. they did, they did raise municipal tariffs, but within the limits that are economically sound. This bill is about what we're introducing, and Mr. Suhi, and we're introducing a safety net that will make it impossible to raise utilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u85	Thank you, have a seat, please. I'd like to sign up for a discussion. Sirbin, I'm sorry about the committee, Yuri Sergiyovich. I'm used to the fact that you weren't there, and you came. Please. Welcome. Please miss the Serbian and support his offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that the fifth version of the law of the Honorable Fellow of the Dry and No less Honourable Fellows of Timoshenko and Bodnar was not considered by the Committee. They were not considered because they were received, only yesterday evening, the latest version registered. But in the committee appointed by the law of Jaroslav Mikhailovich, the honourable colleague Demcishen, Timoshenko-Bodnar is me. So I report my personal point of view. As far as this law is concerned. Every tariff, you know that very well, depends on the price of energy. And what plus this law is that it determines that gas, all of its own gas is directed only to the needs of the population and the LHC, and that the marginal cost limit is set at 10 percent. That's what we're doing to make it possible to generate normal prices for housing and utility tariffs, and that's what we're doing to ensure that companies that produce gas don't have any damage. So this is already a positive regulation of this issue. This law clearly establishes 15 percent. I don't want to criticize Jaroslav Mikhailovich's law, but in principle, 15 percent and 20 percent, which are prescribed in his law, are existing standards now. This law provides for a clear 15 percent for all types of people. It pours out in my calculations about half a billion dollars extra. I believe that with the resources that are in the budget to preserve the consumption and normal lives of our people, these half a billion can be found. What is more, we have now come up with an understanding of NCRE. And they were on March 1st, the Kabin canceled the old gas price decree because it was considered by the committee, and returned for self-heating at other prices. So one regulation and an active norm or a proposed norm in the law of Timoshenko-Bodnar correspond to the already established, additional funding in the budget that is needed to withstand 15 percent. So it's specific and normal. Now for the promotion. We can raise gas prices with you and say they're economically sound, limitless. But just people who can't pay, our citizens, they'll stop paying at all if it's unrealistic. That's why there is and connects this issue to the average wage so that real housing businesses have guaranteed payments from our citizens. This, I think, is the main advantages of this Law. And at my suggestion it could be accepted in the first reading as a basis and added to the calculations that are in the law of Jaroslav Mikhailovich. And in principle, this law deserves to be taken as a basis, if we really want to limit the rise in housing prices and not lead the company to bankruptcy. And now two words, an answer, if possible, to the honourable colleague of Samuel. I can tell you that the City Council of Suma resigned with the sums that they had unjustifiably raised the tariffs. It's just as an example and as an answer. Thank you for your attention. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u87	Sign up for questions. Please. Six minutes, because there are three questions in a minute for questions and answers. Six minutes. The mosquito gives it to Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u88	Your Honor, you just said that your law defines only 15 percent. That's an extra half a billion dollars. But what about your suggestion that the poor should pay less and that the Dry 15 percent for pensioners and disabled persons, 20 percent for the middle category, and all the other rich should pay more. So why are you only limiting 15 percent? And second, can you account for the average wage on utilities? The utility is the price of gas, it's the price of water, it's quite different. Why do you attach yourself to the average wage? Imagine, in Kiev, one salary is going to be one tariff. In Equino, another salary, these are lower tariffs. And if the government can lower tariffs, tariffs, and those with higher wages, they will continue to pay high tariffs. That's not appropriate at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u89	Thank you for asking. Answering the first question. There is no comparison between the rich and the poor. Because there's a norm, and by the way, it's prescribed in the law that you're going to be considering whether we're going to be looking at tomorrow or tomorrow, is a rule that the benefits apply only to the guaranteed area by law. That's 21 square meters plus 10. And so if the rich man has more, he, the area, will certainly pay more. So social justice is not violated here. Second, the question. The answer to your second question. There is no way that the calculations are based on wages. There is an increase in tariff prices, depending on the increase in wages. Because a person, if his salary has increased by 5 percent and his tariffs by 25 percent or 50 percent, and we have a hundred percent, a hundred fifty percent, he just can't pay. So it's also not just a principle of social justice, it's just that we're going to be sure that our citizens, if the price rises.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u90	Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u91	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Yuri Sergeyevich, I would very much like us to reject politics now and you specifically have answered three questions for me. Question one. If the central authority determines the amount of payments, who will control the costs incurred by the local authority, i.e. on the ground directly, and who will determine the amount of subsidies? How will the grant mechanism be regulated? By whom? That's the first question. Question two. What, then, is the role of local authorities and the law on local self-government, what is its function, if we say so, of depriving them of their powers? That's the second question. And question three. Please tell me, from your point of view, the wage, if you say the rate is the same, the same level of salary as the teacher, I don't want to offend any regions now, but suppose the level of Truscavets and Donbass at the same amount of money paid, but with different purchasing power, of course we're equalizing them in payments. Does it not seem that we put them in completely different conditions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u92	Thank you for asking. Answer. First. We do not prevent local authorities from setting tariffs. Because also in the version of Jaroslav Mikhailovich, and in the version of Timoshenko, Bodnar is clearly written, and the third paragraph is the same there, and that the central authority within its competence is carrying out state policy. Wait, wait, I can finish. They are the same word for word, read the third paragraph there and there. The second question. It is recorded that the check is going on, and only after the check has been carried out do the tariffs enter into force. That's the second question. So the local authority is defined on this point, but so that we don't have a vacchanal, and it was the slogan of our hall of all factions. That at this transitional stage, we need to establish State control over how the tariffs go up. Because we've had a lot of information with you about how they sometimes got higher.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u93	Thank you. Filindash instead of Kuzmenko. Bondarchuk, I'm sorry, Bondarchuk. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u94	Dear Yuri Sergiyovich, I would like to ask again whether I have asked the question. Or whatever. We understand that today we may be voting in favour of a single bill, and this should be inevitable, and this will cause a renewed confrontation between our factions. Would it be inappropriate to prepare a bill, such as Suhogo, Timoshenko, Melniczuk? And then we would certainly have 300 votes left over for this bill, the constitutional majority, and that would be one step to meet one, the path to finding compromises and so on. Because if we insist and make sure that one or the other is better, I think it's going to be hard to solve this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u95	First. I want to apologize to my colleague Matthews for not being able to answer those questions. Answering your question. I am in charge of bringing them together, but right now I want to tell you honestly my point of view. Look at one law and the other. I have great respect for my colleague, the Dry One. Today, we must make a decision, which is the basis. So in this law, three innovations that actually affect tariffs, three innovations, and in Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, an active instruction is provided in the second paragraph, where 15 and 20. That's why I think. I answer my point of view, my distinguished colleagues. So with all due respect today, if we made a decision, this would be the basis, and on the second reading, I would consider the position of Jaroslav Mikhailovich. We have to make a decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u96	Thank you, sit down, please. If anyone wishes to comment on this law, write down. Write from factions first and from MPs. I mean, it's on its own, because it's the MPs. By the number of deputies enrolled, you have to invest in 20 minutes. Dry, please. Chechtavo has a word for it. After him, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u97	Dear National Deputies! Today we are considering two important bills on the formation and approval of prices and tariffs for residential services. The bill of Jaroslav Suhogo and the bill of Timoshenko. As far as the Timoshenko bill is concerned, this is a more populist bill, which is a public play, well, for Timoshenko all his life, pyar, it's not at the session, it's still under consideration for a vital bill for people's lives, it's going to the state account to pyrate around the areas. Well, that's her question. The Dry draft, we think, is more effective, it is more realistic, it foresees that, at the legislative level, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine be empowered in the field of pricing, in the area of housing and utility services, as set out in article 116 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine ensures the conduct of financial, pricing, investment and tax policies. This is due to the fact that, in addition to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, price and tariff regulation, other bodies, such as the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and local self-government bodies, are also involved. [[Article 137, 138, 143 of the Constitution of Ukraine]] The issue of granting the Cabinet of Ministers the right to control, install and apply prices and tariffs throughout Ukraine, which is proposed to be implemented in draft laws, is quite logical. The project is envisaged if, in the case of registered and resident residents, the persons are children, the first or second group disabled and the average monthly total income per resident does not exceed 50 per cent of the living minimum per person per month, and if the living room has only 15 per cent of the average total income, and for short-term gas, solid and liquid, household fuel 15 per cent of the total income per year. Subsidies are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Thus, at the legislative level, it is proposed that the conditions for granting subsidies that were previously established by regulations be established. Dear colleagues, I propose to support in the first reading the more successful Jaroslav Suhogo bill and the rational grains that have been laid down in the alternative bill to be used in the process of drafting the Jaroslav Suho draft for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u98	Matvienkov. After him, Samylik. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u99	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, I would still like to really reject emotions and politics and to look at the substance of the issues that are going on and at the core of the problem that we are dealing with today. It must be said that the situation that has arisen with price and tariff problems has arisen after the price of energy, i.e. after the price of gas has increased. The factor that has emerged so far is already 1.8. So even if we didn't do anything, the rate of travel happened, by 1.8 we were forced to raise prices and tariffs. Let's go back to history a little bit. March 2005. Please tell me who was asking the Government to denounce the agreement by 2010, when we received a transit gas of between 30 and 35 billion at $50 per 1,000. And we had no absolute problems. We've had our own 20 billion dollars. Who was it that prevented the system from being put in place, and this money was sent to reform the public sector? To date, we have buried this case; in 2006, we met with Rosukrenergo, now the second position we are with today. We say we have to eliminate Rosukrenergo. So let's find out who created it, Rosukrenerego, and how Rosukrenergo was born. This is 1 January 2006. And let's see what we get in return and how we work. End of 2006. The municipal services are facing a choice, they have been raised 1.8 times the price of gas, they have to raise the prices of utilities, including councils. Including oranges, and any other, have raised everything, you don't have to bend your soul here because they needed to survive in this situation. And here's the problem of utilities, the pricing mechanism, why we pay for the water running through the basements, the boiler room KPD. No Government had, unfortunately, addressed or addressed this issue before. For the first time, the Government had spoken about the need to go to the mini-kotels, and we needed to deal with the situation that today is really in the utilities with pricing, and we were just starting to make a policy. This isn't politics, this is where we have to sit and figure it out. If the Government is concerned with this issue, it should, on the contrary, support it. With regard to the two bills. One of them, I stress once again: there is a proportion of meaning in one, there is a proportion of meaning in the other. But Bondarenko's bill, which is what we're talking about. The red thread is the transfer of responsibility to the Cabinet of Ministers. Why? In order to make policy again. In large measure, the proposals in the Suhogo Bill are a normal regulatory mechanism that can be taken as a basis today. We have a good bill for Melniczuk. It is also a good bill that could be adopted and used for further elaboration. Therefore, I think that we should not make a pirate out of this, but simply really think of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u100	Alexandrovska. There's a Turk behind her.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u101	Dear colleagues, the issue is very important and the question is very interesting. And I am sure that today many people are listening to our debates. And I would like to say, in fact, that we are talking about the problem, the economic problems first and foremost, from which we are trying to make a political problem. As far as the Communists are concerned, she has spoken on this issue on several occasions in this room. And I am pleased to know today that our position has been heard and supported, and already in the amended version of the Bill, the representatives of the BUT faction have introduced a rule that we have proposed that people should pay for all housing and utilities for a total of not more than 15 per cent of their income. We had this proposal. But I would like to point out that not only in this sense of our proposals, but the point is that we need to strengthen public regulation in the area of tariffs and prices, in the area of tariff and price control. And what is proposed in the Yaroslav Suhogo Bill is the right path, which we will certainly support. It is the establishment of a central body of the Government of the Executive, subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers, which will control the level of prices and tariffs. Because the 31st article amends, which indicates that local authorities will have to agree and justify a new rule in this central authority before setting a tariff. And I understand that this is the Ministry of Housing and Utilities, whose establishment we are Communists support. We understand, of course, that State control is necessary, that State regulation is needed, and the position Suha has set out in his bill, we support and therefore propose that the bill be adopted on first reading. But why the first reading? However, what is 15 per cent of the level of income of the workers will return 20 per cent of the level of income of the workers, which must be paid for all housing and utility services. Today we'll be with you, we'll be setting a new minimum wage this week, and by the end of the year it'll be 460 bucks. What's 20 percent? It's 92 bracelets, believe me, 100 bracelets, one quarter of a man's earnings, and a person's income tax, and compulsory payments, which is, in the end, food. So this is a very high level and so the communists insist that working people pay no more than 15 per cent of their income for housing and utilities. With regard to incapacitated, veterans, disabled persons, children and so on, this level has been reported to be even lower than 10 per cent. You and I will be setting a living minimum of 530 dollars at the end of this year, 15 per cent. And it says that the right to a grant will be granted to those who have less than 50 per cent of the subsistence minimum, i.e. less than 260. They're very poor people, and we want to take 20 percent or 15.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u102	A Turk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, the adoption of a law that regulates the tariff crisis in Ukraine is one of the main requirements that have been passed on by the opposition to the anti-crisis coalition. And it's certainly a positive thing that this is the issue that is the beginning of today's meeting of the Supreme Council. But, fellow believers, it is not possible to talk about the satisfaction of the requirements when the matter is translated into blasphemy. It's because at nine o'clock last night, a bill of honor, Mr. Suhogo, was registered in the emergency order, in the paper we're currently reading, only in the morning was this bill handed out. And there were a lot of colleagues here talking about what his advantages were. Dear colleagues, I highly recommend that you read the law. I'm referring to Mr. Dry. What is involved in this law? Only two positions. The first position that recognizes the rule that is in our law that the government should be responsible for tariff policy in Ukraine is the rule of the Constitution. Thank God that even though we recognized it early in the spring, the heating season was over. And the second standard that completely copies the existing standard is 20% on the protection of low-income populations. All of it! I mean, what's the money in this law? Nothing. That is why you want to accept it so that nothing really changes in this situation in Ukraine. What are the principles of opposition to this law, and we demand its adoption? The first is the dependence on higher prices on the income of the population. There's no way that income can go up 10 times less than the price goes up. People just don't have anything to pay for. It's a principled position, that's to be understood. The next question, there were also many people there, where the more areas were raised -- in the eastern regions or the western ones, and so on and so forth. There is no need to look for the extremes in the local councils, they also have responsibility, there is also a violation, and this must be combated. But the main problem that's not being solved right now is the speculation of gas and energy to the population. I want to ask the vice-premier just one question: why do you sell to a village, especially a village that burns gas in a house, a gas twice as expensive as you buy in Russia -- 1.17 bracelets per meter cubic? In 95 copies per metre, it's cubic. Why do you speculate on gas? Because gas has always been used for its own production. Not even Russia here has anything to do with it. And we don't have an increase in the cost of gas of our own production. That is why our law requires the population to release exclusively gas and energy for municipal needs. It's a principle. To prevent them from speculating gas for their own corporations. I would like to draw your attention once again, dear colleagues: if we have a desire to resolve the issue, let us decide, and we will vote for the right, smart bills. When you want to pretend that you are doing something, do not waste your time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u104	Please. Stoyan will be speaking now. He's got it. He was handed over to the deputies. He gave it to me. No, no, I've got it written down. Jarodczek and Komar For Stoyan, six minutes is passed, he'll be speaking. Wait a minute. But here the replica just said, I'm obliged to say that the proposals for considering this issue as the requirements of the 17 points of opposition yesterday were sounded and published here after the faction leaders' meeting, and the tariff issue was included long ago in the order of the day. So please do not shift the arrows to what is being done under pressure of opposition. This is a planned issue that is included in the order of the day. Please. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u105	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Ukrainian Party. Honorable colleagues, respected TV setters, radio listeners. I would like to start by reminding you that in the spring of 2006, then Prime Minister Yuri Yehanurov of Ukraine stated that there is already a 50 percent increase in gas prices. He said, "A rise in the price of gas from May 1st is a discount." This has already been doubled. Later he said yes, and I quote again, "Are we going to raise tariffs again from July 1st, or are we going to leave this topic to our successors, or are we going to work as professionals, or are we going to be nice." I want to say this was the position of a sober prime minister, an economist. The government of Yehanurov had to raise tariff prices twice and ask the question again. Why? Because this was the situation created by the government of Timoshenko in 2005, a colleague of Matvienkov spoke about it when he spoke. When really due to weak politics, I'm not talking about politics, Russia broke gas prices, and we were forced to pay completely different prices. So, of course, the Yanukovic government has inherited a high price increase for residential services. What's so interesting? That Timoshenko, who says that the Yanukovich government is guilty of not being guilty, is doing interesting things. She goes around regions where her political power has the majority in the areas or in the city councils, and it's like a magic fairy swinging a stick lowers and cancels high tariffs. This is what her newspaper The Evening News of February 26, 2007 says about it. I quote: “In view of the experience of making similar decisions by colleagues of the White Church, the BJU and the mayor of Vasil Savczuk held a session in the express regime, preventing empty discussions. As a result, a little more than an hour later, the majority of votes reduced the cost of cold water and water supply by 17 percent, hot water by 30 percent, and the rent was reduced from 1.2 rubles to 80 copies per square metre of housing. Surely, fellow believers, it is very good for people. But I'm asking a very clear question: why did these people agree so easily to lower housing tariffs? And for example, why did they not agree to this in Lviv, regardless of the violent pressure of Julia Timoshenko? Because they realized that the tariffs were justified. The answer was clear: it was the representatives of its political power, its colleagues in “Our Ukraine”, who were in positions of power, who were in a position to raise their tariffs in 17 areas. They're their people in power, and that's why they're so under pressure and they've agreed. But I want to say, of course, that at the beginning of such a frenzy of price increases something and the government had to be more active and to the extent that they had to really verify why such high prices. But what I want to say is that now, in my opinion, the government has already done ahead of schedule. I will point out that 5 billion are allocated to subsidies to families. And no family, I emphasize, will pay more for utilities than 15 percent of the family’s total income, and average families will pay 20 percent. Yes, rich families will pay more, but it is our policy and our political power, as well as the political power of our opponents. I would like to point out that the Cabinet of Ministers in February decided to entrust the State Price Inspectorate with the task of verifying the economic validity of tariffs. And the local authorities, I want them to hear right now, have no right to approve other tariffs without agreeing with the State Price Commission. I think it's a very good precaution. The Suhi’s offer will further enhance the protection of people against unjustified tariff increases. I can’t agree with what is written in the law that makes BUT. If only 15 percent can be determined, there must be a differentiated approach. That's the first one. The other one. Will it be possible for fashionable tariffs to be tied, not to the cost of energy, but to the average wage? That's what our colleagues have already said. I think we really need to approach the law of Suhi’s colleague today. I'm calling the opposition again, but she's gone, she's gone, she's gone, she doesn't want to vote for it. Come on, fellow oppositionists, if you are really seriously concerned about people, if you are going to solve this painful problem for each family or for most families in our Ukraine, let us take the law of the Dry One as a basis. And you want to write it this way: Dry, Timoshenko and Melniczuk are three authors. And let the three of you share this glory, because it's not glory, it's a solution to social issues. We vote on the basis, we vote on the second reading, and we put an end to this issue once and for all. It has to be decided. So once again, I urge you to support Jaroslav Suhogo's bill, to take it as a basis, to take it into account, there are positive proposals made by colleagues from BUTU and to adopt this law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u106	Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, our constituents! Of course, the question that we're considering is very painful and it's bothering all of Ukraine's citizens, but I want to confirm once again that there was absolutely no pressure on the government and the anti-crisis coalition. Why? We had an opportunity on February 21st at 1:00 -- and this is confirmed by Adam Ivanovich, it was an agreement -- to adopt at 1:00 a.m. the Law of Ukraine 3069p, the authors of which is: Bodnar, Dry, Kuibida, Timoshenko, and others. But those who read our lectures so well today turned off the current, paralyzed the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and removed the bill for a month. So, ladies and gentlemen, please be honest with me. We need to be responsible for our actions. It should have been fair to say that the very root cause of today's situation is this block that is missing today, the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and its leader who created this situation in our country. And the government of the anti-crisis coalition is now faced with all these issues. And it wasn't in the U.S., it wasn't Albright going, it was standing up and honestly not hugging there. Because they look like two sisters, and it was fair to say that I did it, and now I'm going to correct my mistake. Unfortunately, instead, we see total disregard for the fruitful work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of the law of Jaroslav Suhi in the first reading. And we think we're a very long time. We'll work on the second reading, we'll make it much better. I want to turn to our constituents, we're working day in and day out to do everything we can to overcome the horror, the devastation, the ruins that have been left to inherit the anti-crisis coalition and its government. And we'll do it. And I would like everyone to support this bill in the first reading. We'll work together. I think the authors of the previous bill are also working on it. And yet we're going to do it gradually from month to month, and we're going to take steps to improve the situation not only in this area, but also in other areas of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u108	Thank you. Mr Vladimir Rybak, Deputy Prime Minister, has the floor. Vladimir Vasilovich, please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u109	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear fellow MPs! Ladies and gentlemen, a few men are here. I want to address you to the opposition. Well, that's enough bullying. Stop burying all the residential property. You've done everything. Alexandre Alexandrovich, I was last Sunday in Winnice, and the head of the town of Winnice, the district manager says: “Here, Volodymyr Vasilovich, when our leaders of the BUT faction and “Our Ukraine” found, they were kneeling and saying: “Decree tariffs by 10 percent.” We told them, city leaders, the MPs that you did it, it's not a political issue now, it's an economic one. And they didn't go for it. In 2006, when the Yanuković government was not at the threshold, you tripled the price of gas. Tell me, why did you do it when you were 50 dollars per thousand cubic meters and you made 686 dollars a price for gas? Why did you do that? Why did you go to the area and 18 areas where your deputies, you made them raise tariff prices. You did the right thing. Go to the region, apologize, stand on the knees of the people, and we will, the government of Yanukovich, now correct the situation with the tariffs. And today. And today, the decision that we made with the deputies, we've taken all your suggestions on the issue of the state's regulatory function, read the verdict. We wrote it all down: Social protection -- what you didn't do, we wrote it down here, tariff control -- we wrote it down. And I thank today the MPs who took part in the drafting of this bill. And the government is confident today, Mr. Turkinov, write everything down! - that these measures will eliminate the stateless facts and avoid an unjustified increase in tariffs. And we won't let you do that anymore, so pass it on to everyone. And the people of Ukraine need to know who did it and what we now need to be responsible for you. And the adoption of the bill will make it impossible to increase tariffs unwarrantedly. Today the system of passage, tariff formation, tariff control, social support, the system of government is in place today, and we will do it clearly. So I ask, Alexander Alexanderovich, to enact the whole law that Jaroslav Mikhajlovich passed, and we will carry it out in full. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u110	Have a seat, please. The final word from the committee is given by the author of the bill Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u111	Of course you'll take the line.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u112	He's registered, he's already inserted a card.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I'll be frank and frankly, I'm very sorry, I'm very sorry that again in the statement by the representative of BUT, the notes of hysterical politics, the hanging of labels, the frank deception. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, you know very well my bill 2197 was introduced on the 4th call, you were nowhere near here. My bill 2197 was passed, we set up a working group, and we wrote a joint bill 3069-p. [[Bodnar, Kuibida, Dry, Timoshenko and Shkutak]] We brought him into this session hall on February 21st! We were supposed to vote for him all together! What did you do? You've captured an electric shield at this time. Isn't that cynicism? Isn't that mean? You're blaming me today for taking some of the positions out of this bill. But be happy because Bill 3069 -- and I'm happy -- has my position, and that's great. And let's write together a second reading bill that will help both housing and human beings. If only you wanted to do so! That's not what you're interested in. I'm not going to spread this subject anymore, so I don't get down to the tone of primitive stupid politics. There's a bill. Please, I will also insist on the coordination council. Dear colleagues, we must change our position on the subsidy rate before the second reading, and we must remove the limit. The other one. We must make a good proposal to Bill 3069 regarding the amendment to the Oil and Gas Act before the second reading. We will do so, and we must do so. And then you're going to see everyone who's working on the bill, and who, by using the troubles in society, is trying to speculate by earning a primitive dirty capitalist, by showing all our troubles and troubles abroad. We have to be alone because in the residential sector, ask professional representatives, here stands Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko, ask what is the problem. Professionals, there are no executives! There's nobody there to work with. Let us help them. We're going to help the sphere, and that's what we're going to do to help people. Finally, once again, for populism has always paid and will be paid by the people, the same little Ukrainian, whose fate and little children one man sheds tears, trying at this time to sabotage all the decisions that this little Ukrainian and those little children have been forced to freeze in cold kindergartens and various kinds of hospitals. Let's work together on this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u114	Dear colleagues, I have a proposal for us to conclude our consideration of this matter, and then we will announce the recess. Yeah? It's a deal. I don't vote because there's no objection. Olga Borisovna, closing statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u115	Thank you. I just want to put a dot in this controversy. I want to answer those questions that have been raised by one of the deputies on our side. And I also want to explain to you what, of course, we need to do now, not do politics, but actually do have to adopt a bill that actually raises that question. The joint project that he was talking about was actually registered to us. But he wasn't looking at it, he wasn't looking at it because the Communist Party's initiative was to take a two-week break in the work of parliamentary meetings. “Roskrenergo” was admitted to the Ukraine market in 2004 under the signature of Yanuković, then Prime Minister, and the heads of NAK “Naftogaz” Boyka. Timishenko is currently in Zitomirsk, where we don't have our own majority, but where, for the moment, utility tariffs have been reduced. Now, it's very sad that such highly respected high-ranking people don't know who actually denounced the $50 gas deal between Ukraine and Russia. I want to say that this happened in January 2006, when Timoshenko had been Prime Minister for four months. Where did such a catastrophe with municipal tariffs come from, yes, it's very simple. Because. The current Cabinet of Ministers has given instructions to raise municipal payments on the premises, which was discussed in this room in September and not only by us, because it was supported by a majority, mostly by the majority of the votes of this room, a decision has been made on the moratorium on utility prices, if you remember. But then you illegally canceled them, and then you started to have an aberration of these tariffs. So what I'm saying is, if we're going to be dealing here not with politics, but really solving the problem, we need to support our bill, which regulates gas prices for the population, and by the way, we didn't know why this is the government's price of gas. Our innovation is linked to the fact that prices for utility tariffs cannot increase faster than the average wage, which is not in the previous bill. Our bill has such innovations that would make it impossible to raise prices, municipal tariffs just from the overthrow of local government. So I think if we don't do politics, everyone here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u116	Have a seat, please. Alexander Turchinov has a replica, one minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u117	Turkey's Timoshenko Yulia Block. Dear colleagues, you know, I was most surprised by the Deputy Prime Minister's speech, who spoke a lot, but failed, had no courage to answer one question that he asked: why do you speculate on the gas of your own production for the population? Why are you bullying the population? Why are you selling your own gas more expensive than you are buying in Russia? And I'll give you an answer that you haven't succeeded in. Because you make money on it. And by populism, by lying. The charges against the opposition you're trying to cover up the banal crime -- that's the truth and that's the meaning of your activity and the government, and not just you, but, in fact, most of your anti-crisis, so-called, government. Hence, respected colleagues who read the laws realized what law enabled the problem to be solved. And for this law on our part, I think the Supreme Council should vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u118	Pucherenko was also mentioned in the performances. "Our Ukraine" asks for words. Replica, one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u119	Thank you. Dear friends! I'd like to speak with your permission as head of the subcommittee, because I have no mandate to speak out of the faction of ours. [[Alexei Kucherenko]] I would like to say, dear friends, first of all, we understand that the problem is huge. I want to give you one number: the debt of thermal power companies before. For two or three months, the gas grew by 1.4 billion dollars. And we need to understand what's going to happen next -- there's going to be an artificial bankruptcy of these companies. Second, this politicization certainly has both objective and subjective grounds. I would not want to increase it further, but I would like to say that we should be objective with you. Undoubtedly, the opposition has the right to a certain populism, which is the law of political life. I can tell you that I understand today that there is a certain populism of the opposition -- it has a right. I want to remind you, dear friends, that when you were in opposition for two weeks, when the coalition was declared and you were in opposition, there were four draft decrees on housing and utilities. I don't want to list which one of you specifically signed them. So today, unfortunately, this particular populism of opposition lies on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u120	Let me finish. 30 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u121	That is, they are objective. And this problem should have been predicted, please agree, seven months ago. What are we talking about? We've created a working group recently, by the way, on the initiative of Mrs. Richter. It's working. Unfortunately, this law didn't go through the working group -- it's his minus. But we have what we have. Unfortunately, this law, again, did not pass through the committee. But I think it can be supported in the first reading, because it gives any weight to the central authority in the situation that exists today. Finally, I would like to say that the members of the working group, with MEPs Petrosov, are “regions”, Kucherenk, Serbia and others, a registered draft decision approving the concept of pricing in the area of municipal services. In the near future, we will consider it. I just want you and I to conceptually approach this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u122	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u123	I will personally vote now for your law and, if possible, for the law of Mrs. Timoshenko. But what I'm saying is that they're just a step in the way of solving the principle of this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u124	Thank you. From the Communists, Matthew for replication, there was a faction here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u125	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Every day you and I are increasingly convinced that the so-called opposition led by the President of Ukraine wants to exacerbate the situation in society. And to act on principle the worse, the better is their goal today. And in this we find out, in general, in the organization of the work of the Supreme Council and this plenary week, when there is no complete opposition today in the Supreme Council Hall. As for the calendar plan, Mrs. Bodnar, you need to know, not the populist idea that this two-week break schedule was adopted by the Supreme Council, not by a proposal, particularly by the Communists, as you stated. Then we should not mislead people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u126	And I think the Supreme Council has done the right thing in this case. Because it was not enough for the deputies here for four days to celebrate the women’s festival and so on and so forth. So it was the right thing to do, to take a break between the meetings. The fish, for the replica? Do you have the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u127	Dear Alexander Alexander, honourable deputies. Turkov, I've given you all the answers. All the answers I gave you. What other question do you have, I have an office, come on, I'll give you all the answers. Those stories you're telling us right now, why didn't you do them when you were in the government? What prevented you?Oh, my God! Come to me, all the answers, let us correct the matter for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u128	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to sum up the discussion and the subject of the debate that we will now determine by voting. Dear colleagues, I ask you to pay attention to one detail. Both draft laws are similar. There's a difference in some numbers that need to be determined and I'm going to suggest that we vote on the first reading, not the final reading. And to the second reading, we could find agreed positions. Alexander Mikolaiovich, please. Please, don't worry. We have representatives of the judiciary, you see? So note one detail. The project that Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi introduced is one key point that was overlooked during the discussion. The point is that local authorities, when deciding on tariffs, should agree with the government on the basis of the figures they bring to the population. Because this is related to the administration of subsidies and this is a key issue that regulates the entire system of government tariff relations. This is a matter of principle. As for 15-20 percent of others, we can do the math, and we'll do the second reading on this. The proposal in the project, which is represented as Timoshenko's project, is relatively, as it were, the dependence on price and tariff increases, as well as wages, in my opinion, incorrect from many points. It's just impossible to account for because there's pay, let's say, 5,000 revenue and a 10 percent salary increase means 500, it's going to completely break tariff growth, even if it's more secure. And there's the income of a family where the total income is less than a thousand, and it's going to be absolutely -- I repeat -- here's the average calculation, it's the same thing as the average temperature in the hospital. You can't do that, you have to make sure there's an exact calculation. And the responsibility of the local authorities lies in ensuring that these figures are accurate to the population. As for other questions, let's say the question of gas is interesting in itself. I think there's a certain degree of inadequacy of the subject matter of knowing this law, but, nevertheless, you can count on how it's all defined so that there's no question of how, because you can go further. How did the wealth of the State become a private fortune? Why is the price dictated here? How did this happen? So this is a complex question that needs to be answered, including in the legislative order. I would have looked if then some of the deputies would have voted if we had finally radically approached this issue. But that's another thing. In any case, two laws are similar, one should be accepted as a basis, and the other should be taken into account by all; however, the authors of one and the other worked on one option at first. So there's a familiar approach. And I think we're going to define here completely convincingly. Project 2197, by Jaroslav Suhi, is the basis for the first reading. Please identify yourself. [[12:24:06]] For 247 Decision taken. The other one. According to the Rules of Procedure, the second option is not to vote on how much was accepted as the basis of the first. The factions? Well, please, by the factions. Party of Regions – 185, Block of Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 1, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. Break to 12.55 is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u129	Dear colleagues, if you'd like to come into the session room, we'll continue our sessions. I don't see Player yet, let's do it. Stepan Stepanovich ready, Bulba? There's, there's, there's fine. There's already Leonid Ivanovich. A draft Act on the structure, mandate and the legal and economic regime of the National Industrial and Agrarian Association Masandra is under consideration. [[Registration number 2136]] Leonid Ivanovich, please. Get Bondarenko Victor ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u130	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. I'll risk saying there's not a single person in this room who hasn't ever had a cup in his life, it's the fault of Masandra's production. Second. I want to say that our ancestors were very smart people in their time because they understood that our people needed to develop a culture of wine and wine. Since royal times, therefore, the great Prince of Golicin, as a great patriot and mover, has done everything to plant the first vine on the southern coast of Crimea. Placed, by the way, and the Main Enterprise itself, as it is now called, from the point of view of construction and from the point of view of the entire technological chain of the production of high-level wines. I would also like to recall that this enterprise was established as an association as early as 1936. In particular, when the Fascist attacked and resisted a mile away our land, the great Stalin decided in this sense what was worthy of our today's imitation, namely: by his special instruction he gave the command to save national pride for us with you, for future generations, and therefore under the guidance of Mikoyan's drug, was evacuated, despite the fact that Fascism had bombed Sevastopol, bombed Crimea, bombed Kerch, and evacuated all the assets of Massandra's vineyard. Moreover, I would like to emphasize that this has been done in such a way that if two copies of the same class, the same year of wine production, were packed in different packages and on different floats in this case transported so that, if the bomb fell into the same pool, it would keep the other one. They returned after the end of the Great Homeland War, after the defeat of our fathers and grandfathers over Fascism, and returned everyone to the castle of Massandra. This is in principle because today it is a matter of national pride, if you will, of ours. Either we are able to save this enterprise, this worthlessness that has international brand and recognition, or we will give up everything that is the highest human value. To this day, the whole question is that Massandra herself is coming as soon as she can. And the tragedy on her head was that Masandra now has her vineyards and her businesses, ranging from the tragically well-known Foros to the Solar Court, or, secondly, 180 kilometres of the coastal zone. That's what all the cheese is about. And on these 180 kilometers of the coastal zone today, there are so many bandits who don't need history or the future or the glory of today's Massandra. Massandra now owns 100 per cent of government property. Moreover, I would like to mark my position here immediately, because at the time that Massandru was being pushed up, there were so many wanters that, in fact, the general director of Boyko Nikolai Konstantinović, he needed a monument, I think, to be put up today because he had not flinched, and against all these troops, he was taking action not to destroy Massandra. He could, if he were a weak man, not a patriot, as you well know, enter into any deal and get his, and today would not be Massandra. Massandra now has a state-owned enterprise in Yalta and a state-owned company called Gurzuf in Alushta, a state-owned enterprise called Taurida, Alushta, Malorechenski, and a state-owned wine-growing enterprise called Welcome, as well as a state-owned enterprise called Morskoye, Weselovsky and Sudak in Sudak in the city of Sudak. The implementation of a single class, agri-technical, technological and economic policy enabled the Massandra group to retain the country's Moroccan wines and the total production of Moroccan wines in Ukraine, Massandra, accounts for little or no 75 per cent of the total production. In terms of what we all should have done, this is to enact the law in question, and I am well aware that it is on the anti-crisis coalition that I am stressing with particular force that the great mission and responsibility for preserving this national heritage lie with me. I am absolutely sure that there are different approaches to this bill, there are different conclusions, including, I know how much lobbying, interesting the black market, I know that there are also legal opinions that are being formed, sufficiently designed, that are being broken down into the smoke and dust alone, and I would like to ask all of you, without taking your time, to ask that we, the anti-crisis coalition, in the absence of those who are being destructively prepared today in the country to build their policies, who are willing to challenge Massandra if you want, even so that our beloved President does not allow himself to come along with his friend, the French cinema actor Depardier, walking along the coast of Yalta and one of the leaders of the state-owned wine business so vaguely says: [[For me, he's just my favorite in coffee.]] We're with you, Depardier! We're people! And as the Riches sang, we and the country. Let us therefore adopt this bill on first reading and lay the foundation for the protection of the national heritage of Massandra and Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u131	Thank you. Will there be questions? You don't? There is one question. Please, Sergey Ribuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u132	Thank you. Dear Leonid Ivanovich, there is no doubt that we need to support such a bill, but I am familiar with the findings of the Scientific and Expert Authority, and you know, I want to agree with them that if we talk about Masandra, the law has to help and protect and not complicate. Well, starting with the name, the structure of the authorization. Is this where we take over the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine? Perhaps, if so high and solid, so to speak, about the national agrarian association “Masandra” and beyond the text. And the second question. How do you see the role of the Ministry of Agrarian Politics here? In this bill, it goes away. And just like many laws, there's a series of funding, distribution of funds, and so on. If this is not done in this law, then the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of Finance, the Committee of Ecology there or the Ministry, and so on. Maybe this is where we write it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u133	Thank you for asking. First. As far as the title is concerned. It's, in my opinion, absolutely true, because it's exactly the name that takes up the entire concept machine that we're protecting Massandra. What's more, why I told her in Science and Expert Management that lobbying is so powerful that they write without reading what they write, but more so because they're not responsible for what they write. On the contrary, they refer here to the non-compliance of the structure of the association in chapter 12 of the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and related articles: 118, 119, 120, the Ukrainian Civil Code. On the contrary, I also claim experts, and I also have training, as it is called, with experts, that it was through the adoption of such a law that it was possible to remedy the inconsistencies that were actually present today in connection with this law. And the second. I want to tell you, the most important thing is where the whole dog is trapped: once again, 180 kilometers of the coastal zone, or, otherwise, the land. Trying to write that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u134	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u135	I'll answer you when I sit next to you. Or article 149, 150 of the Ukrainian Land Code cannot provide guaranteed protection for the seizure of these lands, and this law must guarantee that no one will take those 180 kilometres from Massandra.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u136	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bondarenko Viktor Viktorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u137	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Agriculture Policy and Land Relations at its meeting discussed the draft Law on the Structure, Power and Specificity of the Legal and Economic Regime of the National Industrial and Agriculture Association “Masandra” introduced by National Deputy Leonid Ivanović Grač. The adoption of this law will enable the state-owned enterprises that form part of the union to maintain this unique enterprise, which is the standard of Ukrainian production, to ensure the integrity of Masadrov’s lands, to further develop the raw materials and to produce in the single farm complex. Once and for all, we must stop trying to break up Masandra into several independent enterprises with the possibility of their future privatisation. At the same time, the committee has a number of comments. First, it must be determined by a higher body of union administration and its competence. Second, this government of state economic unions should be governed by a union or a director - general rather than an administration, as provided for in paragraph 1.7. of the draft law. In general, the Committee is of the view that the bill should be supported and recommended to the Supreme Council on the basis and consideration of the comments of the Ukrainian National Deputies of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee asks for the support of the deputies and for the adoption of this law as a basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u138	Thank you. Sit down, please. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion? Sign up for factions. Yes, please, nine minutes, then. John Bondarczuk, Matthew, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u139	Respectful colleagues, using what we do in such a warehouse, can save us time to consider other matters. And maybe less talk and use the full-time rule to convince each other of what we are convinced of. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine supports Leonid Ivanovich Grač's bill and votes in favour of its adoption in the first reading, so that in preparing for the second reading we can also take into account the observations of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, and those wishes and suggestions that we can have with you. The main idea impresses us with this bill, so that we really need to stop in our privatisation corner and think and see if we don't bite ourselves by the elbows, because we can lose such objects, particularly the Masandra complex, which is our national acquisition. So we vote, our faction is completely behind this bill. And we will, if we have certain wishes and suggestions, we will give them to the author for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u140	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, please, the Communist faction, followed by Ribub.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u141	Thank you. Valentina Matviev, Communist faction. Dear national MPs, our constituents! I think that everyone is more than obvious about the adoption of this draft law on the structure, mandate and nature of the legal regime of the property complex of the national agrarian association “Masandra”, this, as the reporter has already said, is a unique enterprise. And so the faction of Communists will, of course, support this bill, as you've seen, the author, or subject of the legislative initiative, has been a member of our faction Leonid Ivanovich Gracz. And today we should thank Leonid Ivanovich for this good initiative. He spoke in detail about the need for the adoption of this law, referring to specific historical facts and to the real situation today that has arisen around this enterprise. As the National Deputy of Ukraine over the past few years, I have been approached by a large number of representatives of this labour force, I mean Masandry, and they are shouting: save our business, meaning first of all ours, by addressing our supreme legislative body of the state, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, save this national acquisition. And I think we need to respond to such appeals by our voters. Therefore, the need for a legislative solution to this problem -- the Masandra problem -- is now very and very mature. With regard to the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, which has already tried very hard to make it so that everyone who doesn't read would immediately come to their own personal conclusion: no, you can't accept such a bill. I think that we are obliged to adopt Leonid Ivanovich Grač's bill today on first reading and second reading on the part of the drafter of the bill by the profile committee, I think he will take all the thoughts into account and make a concrete proposal for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u142	Thank you. Sergey Ribuk, faction of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u143	Honorable National MPs. About the role and significance of the Masandra merger, we don't have to take the time to talk, the more vivid our colleague, Leonid Ivanovich Graz, said, and I support him as well. And on the profile committee, we discussed and positively resolved this issue. And as a representative, as a member of the faction of the Party of Regions, I recommend that colleagues vote unanimously to accept this project in the first reading. But I'm going to say right away that we're going to have to do some more work to avoid getting second reading in this state of euphoria: let's adopt the law at any cost, because this is, you see, the only unique integration of Masandra. It takes pragmatism and the letter of the law to protect it, to work together, for the national economy and for its pride, and not to interfere, because there will be disagreements with other legislation. I think, in addition to looking for the moments in this legislation and the mandate to give the Cabinet of Ministers with regard to the operational management of mergers in everyday life, because there is no structural unit in the Cabinet of Ministers itself that would do productive functions, and that's understandable. And the second. In order for us not to have financial colossus in this regard, it would probably be advisable to consider how much more to get involved in the budgetary process, in the changes, in the five - year benefits, or how it is written down, so that all wine production and the wine sector of Ukraine are not offended. And there's something else you can use. We have the One - Percentage Interest Congregation Act, and it's over 200 million. He's pulling. So if the Cabinet of Ministers listens to Masandra's production program and decides to allocate a substantial lion's share of this one-per-cent congregation every year, there will be an absolute combination with legislation and we will not get involved in the budget and drag ropes. I mean, it's already like I'm preparing for an active discussion in the second reading with a view to accepting it unanimously. And now I urge you to vote in favour of it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u144	Thank you. The discussion is concluded, and I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on the Structure of Authorisations and Characteristics of the Legal and Economic Regime, the Property Complex of the National Agricultural Association “Masandra”. Registration No. 2136. Please be supportive. [[13:18:59]] For 242 Question, decision taken. I'm going to the profile committee. On the basis of what Leonid Ivanovich, who has said about the efforts around this object and, in particular, of the land at the disposal of this object, I would like to ask the profile committee as soon as possible to speed up the preparation of the subject for consideration in the second final reading. A draft Law on the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 2078, Bulba Stepanovich, please. The committee is Lisov Igor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u145	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is drawn to the problem of legislative regulation of the functioning of a small but essential country in the cartographic and geodetic field of production and science. Because the cartographic geodetic production it produces is a necessary basis for the development, the economy, the organization of the work of state institutions. Accordingly, there must be a service in the State responsible for providing these needs with high-quality cartographic geodetic products. By the way, all the countries in the world, even the smallest, have such services. After Ukraine gained independence, the Central Office of Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre were created at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The Ukrainian Act on Topographical and potatoographic Activities, adopted at the end of 1998, was a legislative basis for the administration’s activities. But because of misunderstandings in the higher echelons of power, the value of this service was gradually underestimated, brought to the rank of Department of the Ministry, and in the thousands, more faithfully, in 2004 it was virtually eliminated. The process of reforming and reorganizing the State Cartographic Service in 2003 and 2004 was not done professionally, with gross violations of the Ukrainian Act on Topographical and Cartographic Activities. The existence of this law was essentially ignored. In 2005, by decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of 12 July 2005, the number 550 State Department of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre was restored as the structural unit of the Ministry of Environment and Environmental Protection of Ukraine. Yet, to set up work in such an extent and at such a level as today’s state problems require, more loyally, needs, it has not been able to do so. In fact, it was completely removed from the administration of all the state cadastres of Ukraine, where the geodetic base, topographical basis, is the basis for the creation of these cadastrals, perhaps not by chance in view of the preparations for the establishment of the land market. Such a situation is explained by the legislative coalition that arose in the field of the State Administration of Cartographic Geodesics. After all, according to article 6 of the U.S. Law on Topographical and Cartographic Activities, the U.S. Department of Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ministry of Defence, and other executive authorities, are involved in the work of the U.S. Article 8 of the same law details the competences of the General Directorate of Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre at the Cabinet of Ministers. At the same time, the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of July 12, 2005, No. 550, states: Establishing the Ministry of Environmental Protection of the State Department of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre and the State Geological Service as government authorities of the State. Thus, two government authorities in the state administration of the cartographic geodetic sector have been declared to date. And most importantly, none of these services actually perform the functions that need to be performed, as defined by the law. The creation of this legislative absurdity involves those agencies that have made great efforts to subordinate the work of the State Cartographic Geodetic Service to their own needs, not to state needs. In this state of uncertainty, there are also numerous commercial structures of the cartographic geodetic profile, which are completely equipped with imperfect legislative provisions. The findings of the Chief Executive say: “The whole set of issues related to the organisation of the state administration of topographical and cartographic activities is governed by the Act on Topographical Geodetics and potatoographic activity”. As you can see, that is not the case. What's more, I'm saying that in today's kind of service, it's not actually capable of doing public tasks. For example. Article 11 of the Law, which refers to the principal administration. Article 11. Topographical geodetics, cartographic works of state importance. Here I am naming only some who are unable to carry out the preaching work. For example, the creation, development, and maintenance of state-owned geodetic networks, photographic geodetic networks, as well as high geodetic bases that provide quality features for the creation of state-wide topographic maps and plans, for the defence of the country, for the execution of national land and for the management of cadastres, for the execution of high-precise geodetic works of special purpose. Next. Create and update cadastre maps, plans, provide them, as well as the necessary topographical and geodetic information for users to maintain the state registration system of land and other immovable property, maintain a data bank. I'm not talking about general science anymore, such as remote sensing of the Earth, geodynamic survey based on geodetic and cosmic measurements, topographical geodetic and cartographic delimitation, demarcation of the state border of Ukraine. Cartography includes the creation of topographic maps, other continents of the continental shelf, the world’s oceans, and overseas countries. As you can see, the public service is not capable and is not actually designed to perform such functions. The adoption of the law is necessary for the creation of a legislative framework for the activities of the State Geodesy and Cartography Service, and a cadastra to ensure the effective functioning of the development of the cartographic and geodetic industries of production and science in the state in the interests of government administration and management. The availability of such a service in the state will prevent the destruction of large national acquisitions – the state coordinate network, ensure its development and efficient economic use, halt the negative process of dispersing geodetics at various levels and reach the European level of providing all scientific and technical and economic needs of the state with cartographic and geodetic production, finally ensuring that all kinds of State cadastres are maintained on the single modern, perfect cartographic and geodetic basis. I'm willing to answer your questions, but at the same time, I ask you to pay attention to the need to adopt this law, and I urge all of you to support it in the first reading. I know he's still imperfect, and I agree with that. I know it needs work. But all of this could be done during the preparation period for the next reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u146	Thank you. Will there be questions? Yes, there are two questions. Then there will be two questions. Garden and Ribuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u147	Garden, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. This law, I think, seems quite necessary, has many positive sides. I am interested in such a question. If we accept it, it will help to create such a scheme, a map of agricultural land, and then to use it in order to find out that sometimes in some rural areas, this land simply does not count when it is distributed or allocated for something else. Does the same idea cover this or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u148	Thank you for asking. The point is that one of the main tasks of the State Geodesy and Cartography Service is to create detailed topographic maps, large - scale topographic maps. And so far, this task is not being solved by anyone, because it's practically a publicity service, I say, that it doesn't actually do that task, and it can't actually do that. And you're right. In order to create cadastres and not just earth cadastres, but water cadastre, a forest cadastre needs a basis — detailed topographic maps.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u149	Sergey Ribuk. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u150	Thank you. Dear Stephen Stepanovich, of course, I fully agree with you that the cartographic information complex is the foundation for the organization of all its forms of government and management. And I have no claim at all to the content of the draft law, but questions. We have a law in our country on topographical and cartographic activities. It's a bill. What you're giving is 14 chapters, one third of them, one or two sentences. Maybe just so we don't have to bear fruit, I'm talking in shape, another law, but how about chapters or chapters? To improve the current law on this issue or not? Please give me an answer. Maybe there's something I don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u151	Thank you for asking. And I'm pointing out to you that that law was created, developed when there was the State Department of Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre at the Cabinet of Ministers. In view of the fact that she had been eliminated, it was found that all of these tasks were done to no one. So what we're talking about is that we need to re-establish it, this service, and define in modern conditions, in new conditions, additional problems. I'm convinced that once we adopt this law, we'll go back to clarifying the law that you said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u152	Stepan Stepanovich, I'm in the middle of this. Indeed, an interesting idea, but I have this question: none of the ministries and departments are practically acting on the basis of the law, except some. They are confirmed by the Cabinet of Ministers. And here we don't even create a ministry that, as it were, has a slightly lower status as a special law. So we're also limiting the rights of the Cabinet of Ministers to this office because we're setting them up by law. Maybe it's really going to take into account what Ribus says in the law so basic and write down the standards that are required for the service. To avoid the fact that the ministry has a law, the ministry is governed by an order that approves it, or by a position that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. How do we get out of this situation?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u153	I think the question here is the specificity of this service, which allows us to accept it. More loyally, determine its function by law. I say that in all the countries of the world this is how this problem is solved, and including in the Soviet Union, there was the Chief Administration of Geodesy and Cartography at the Council of Ministers of the Soviet Union. I mean, essentially, The importance of this service, it also determines the specificity of its functioning. I'm convinced that if there had been no reform of this service in the Cabinet of Ministers now, there would have been no reform of this service, of the already well-known, appointment of new people, of those who had destroyed it in their own time, unfortunately, the cabinet of ministers would have been somewhat different. I ask, let's take the first reading and suggest, including the Cabinet of Ministers, that we join in on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u154	Thank you, Stepanovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u155	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u156	Liss Igor Volodymyrovich is the head of the committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u157	Thank you. Honorable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, a draft law on the State Service of Geodesy and Cartography, the cadastre was considered at a meeting of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. The aim of the bill, according to the author, is to create the legislative basis for the activities of the State Geodesy and Cartography Service and the Ukrainian cadastre, which in turn will ensure the effective functioning of the cartographic, geodetic sector in the interests of government administration and management. As noted in the explanatory note to the bill in this area, the Ukrainian Act on Topographical and Potatoography is in force. The implementation of this bill does not require changes to other laws, nor does it require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. But it should be noted that the bill contains a number of contradictions and ambiguous interpretations of certain articles. Yes, it's not clear that it's an authority in the field of topographical geodetic, cartographic and cadastre activities. Article 7 of the bill defines this as a specially authorized government authority of the state administration of the cartographicogeographical sector – the head office of the “Ukrgeodezcartography” subordinated to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At the same time, in article 1 of the bill, the State Service is classified as a group of government authorities that provide for the needs of the State in cartographic and geodetic products. However, these products are now being provided by the State Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre Service in the Ministry of the Environment of Ukraine, as well as by the State Commission and its administrations, the Central Administration of the Military Topographic Inventory and Navigation, the General Administration of Operational Security of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, and the local authorities of architecture. In addition, articles 6 and 8 of the bill stipulate that the State Service for Geodesy, Cartography, and cadastre make up its regional offices. In the explanatory note, the author points out that the implementation of the law will not require additional costs from the State Budget. But the calculations show that there is a need to create 30 regional offices -- 25 territorial administrations and 5 city offices, which have a population of over one million people, with the assumption of the respective state of government of these offices, premises, equipment, and so on. The main scientific and expert office concluded that the first reading of the bill was to be rejected. As a result of the Ukrainian National Geodesy, Cartography and cadastre Bill, the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use and Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster proposes that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the project. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u158	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, who wants to share in the faction discussion? Sign up. Bondarczuk expressed his wish, Ivan Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u159	Dear colleagues! Stepanovich Bulba, author of the bill as a specialist in this narrow sector, feels more strongly about the need for legislative regulation and intervention in this area, and about the imperfections of current legislation that we have today. It's a specific sector, so I'm not quite sure our parliamentary friends are quite aware of his proposal. I'm going to say that we haven't been able to make that clear on the faction either, but we have agreed on what would obviously be appropriate today to propose a decision to return this bill to the author for further work. Why? Because the question is important. I would like to tie up with just two problems. We are among the other laws to be passed this year and have committed ourselves to the Law on Earth cadastre in particular. And without taking concrete steps to strengthen our geodesic service, cartographic and cadastre, without addressing some of the legislative issues of this service, it will be difficult for us to ensure the implementation of this Law on State Land cadastre. And the second. I had to work as part of our Ukrainian-Moldova Interstate Demarcation Commission, the delimitation of the state border between our two countries. And I know that there are some problems exactly in the legislative provision of our geodetic, cartographic services, because it then extrapolates directly to the practicality of our business. So I suggest, let's not throw the child out and spill the water, let's propose and make a decision, a decision to return the bill to the author for processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u160	Thank you. The discussion is over, we will be determined. Is it possible that Stepanovich does not deny that we would support his colleague’s proposal and immediately vote for work? Do you mind, Stepanovich? Please, it's Bulby's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u161	Thank you. I am willing to accept that point, but I ask you not to reject this law. Obviously, I still have work to do, perhaps even with my colleagues involved. In addition, explain, go to committees and explain the position and necessity of adopting this Law. Please consider this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u162	Thank you. Then, with your permission, I'm voting on the orientation of the subject of the legislative initiative, namely Stepan Bulby's bill on the State Service of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre of Ukraine. Registration number 2078. Please be supportive. [[13:41:58]] For 239. The bill is aimed at redrafting the author. Let us move on to the section “Abbreviated procedure”, but we need to make a decision to do so. Please vote. For 234 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is under consideration. Registration number 2798. Report by Justice Minister Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, please. Baby boy's getting ready from the committee. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The project, which is proposed for your consideration, provides for the establishment of the responsibility of officials who deliberately do not refer to the national registration of normative acts that are approved. It is proposed to add Article 188 to the Code with a 24 badge, which is intended to establish the responsibility of regulatory entities for failing to register, sending unregistered legal and regulatory acts that have not been brought to the attention of the population in the established order, as well as sending letters, telegrams and other unregistered types of regulatory instruments that set out the legal rules. The project proposes to deal with cases of violations of legislation concerning the state registration of legal acts and to refer them to the jurisdiction of district, district and city and local courts. Authorize the officials of the justice authorities to establish protocols for such administrative and legal violations. This project is due to the fact that unfortunately we have a systematic violation of the legislation on state registration by various authorities and these violations appear to be the order of the tenth part of the rules that are being used each year. They are issued without a government registration and cannot be used by users. What I'm saying is that today we have a whole series of Ukrainian laws that regulate the obligation to register state laws starting with the 117th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, laws on local government administrations, on the National Bank, and other laws that state registration is required to be made. And if the official does not deliberately refer the legal act to the state registration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u164	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u165	If an official does not refer a legal act governing the rights of citizens to state registration, he should be held accountable. This is one of the mechanisms of the government that should ensure compliance with the laws of Ukraine and the uniform application of the rules set out in the regulations. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u166	Thank you, have a seat, Alexander Volodymyrovich. Members of the Legislature Committee for the Protection of the Law, Malishev Vladimir Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u167	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Law Enforcement Committee has considered a draft law submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine amending administrative offences. It is proposed that administrative responsibility be established for violating Ukrainian legislation on State registration of legal acts. Having examined the draft law, the Committee notes that it needs substantial refinement. The Committee considers that it is impossible to establish administrative responsibility for these actions in the absence of a legislative definition of the concept of a “legal act” and a clear list of the grounds on which such an act is subject to State registration in the judiciary. The concept of a “legal act” should be governed by a separate law of Ukraine. Accordingly, in our view, before establishing administrative responsibility for a violation of Ukrainian State registration legislation, it is necessary to adopt an appropriate law for which there is a breach of administrative responsibility. In addition, the bill does not clearly identify a number of persons who may be held accountable for the offence. The Chief Research and Expert Office of the Supreme Council also supports our proposal. The Committee decided to invite the Supreme Council to return the draft law to its finalization. The Committee on State Construction, Regional Policy and Local Government shares the same view. Please support the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u168	Thank you, Vladimir Stepanovich. Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? Yes. Sign up. Please, Cibenko Peter. Matthew? Please, Matthew Valentine, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u169	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I believe that the Minister of Justice's report has made clear the position that it is necessary to adopt this Act to amend the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Violations, but it does apply to actual violations that are today mass-produced in the state registration of legal acts. I think that if Alexander Volodymyrovich had brought in the figures, not only did I say that the tenth part of the legislation is not registered in the Justice Ministry system, but I would have called the same vicious violators, I mean among those bodies that are bound to do it to make our people hear it, it would probably be even better, and then the necessity to adopt such a bill would have been understood by everyone. I think that the issue of administrative responsibility should be dealt with by law, first of all, by officials guilty of violating this legislation regarding the state registration of legal acts. Not as it was with the decision, especially as you remember, the Kyiv Councils on rising prices and tariffs for residential services. And you know what this led to -- practically a social explosion in the capital of Ukraine -- the city of Kiev. Still, they made concessions, overturned those decisions, but not in the legal way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u170	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 2798. [[on infringements of the State registration of legal acts]] Let's take a friendly vote in favour. [[13:50:58]] For 231 231, thank you, decision taken. I ask the committee to take into account the comments that have been made here when it comes to the second reading, because a number of them are actually right. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences on Strengthening Responsibility for Plant Protection Violations, registration number 2842, is under consideration. Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics Dimczak Ivan Mikitovich. Prepare Malisheva again from the committee. Please, Ivan Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u171	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law has been drafted to implement the Ukrainian Act of 14 September 2006 No. 141 “On amending certain laws of Ukraine”, which amends article 16 of the Ukrainian Law on Plant Protection, where officials of special authorized executive bodies in the field of plant protection of the Ministry of Agrarian Policy have the right to impose administrative fines on officials and citizens guilty of violating plant protection legislation. [[to prevent the use of falsified pesticides and agrochemicals]] The Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences should therefore be amended accordingly. The purpose of the bill is to increase liability for the use of pesticides by citizens, officials, by increasing the administrative fines imposed on those guilty of violating plant protection legislation. This increases tax revenues to the State and local budgets. The project is believed to provide an opportunity to increase the status of the Plant Protection Service, to ensure more effective State control over plant protection and the effective use of pesticides, the elimination of illegal farming, the avoidance of environmental risks, and risks to public health. The bill was discussed on February 13, 2007, at a meeting of the Committee on Law Enforcement, February 20, at a meeting of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations, and a decision was taken unanimously to bring it to the sessional Hall of the Supreme Council on the basis and as a whole. Please support and accept this bill as a law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u172	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Member of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of Law Enforcement, Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u173	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Legislative Enforcement Committee has considered a draft law submitted by the Committee of Ministers of Ukraine amending the Code on Strengthening Liability for Plant Protection Violations. The bill proposes to increase the fines imposed on citizens from 0.1 to 0.5 unpaid minimum incomes of citizens and officials from 0.5 to 1 unpaid taxes of citizens for violating plant protection legislation to 5 to 10 and 10 to 18 respectively. The powers of the officials concerned regarding the application of these fines are also clarified. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council considers that the bill can be adopted on first reading. The Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations is of the same opinion. Having examined the draft law, the Committee considers it necessary to invite the Supreme Council to consider it on a reduced basis and to adopt it as a basis and generally as a law of Ukraine. Please support the Committee's decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u174	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there speakers? Is it? Yes, Jaduha, please, Jaduha, microphone. Well, the villagers can't help but say, that's understandable. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u175	Thank you. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Indeed, the bill proposes to amend article 16 of the Ukrainian Plant Protection Act, which increases the administrative responsibility of those who violate plant protection legislation. But, of course, the question is asked. We have repeatedly adopted appropriate acts that have increased administrative responsibility, but we would like to see that the increase in fines has made it possible for more wrongdoers to be shown. I would like to believe that, of course, because there are a lot of problems in this issue today. During Ukraine’s years of independence, the agrarian economy, unfortunately, has changed to the negative. Today, practically decomposed stores of toxic chemicals, some of which are kept under open air, some of which are today undetected, undetected, their shelf life, and so forth. On the other hand, the market is filled with new pesticides, the quality and production of which, more than ever, require state control in terms of their efficient use, avoiding the negative environmental phenomena that we all know. How much beekeeping has been lost to illegal, inequitable, unwarranted use of poisons and other industries. The bill, of course, should first think about people’s health. We know how agrotechnical processes are done in agriculture. And I would also like to believe that this bill, which needs to be supported in the first reading, will enable state plant protection inspectors to more effectively monitor the implementation of plant protection measures, pesticide use and removal in technological operations, I would say illegal, muddy, grandfather farming methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u176	Thank you. The discussion is over, let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption of the Amendments Act to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Plant Protection Violations. Registration number 2842. Please vote. [[13:57:50]] For 242 Copy that. There's a committee proposal: to accept it as a law as a whole. Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences on Increasing Responsibility for Plant Protection Violations. Registration number 2842. Please vote. [[13:58:27]] For 233 Thank you, the law has been passed. I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes. Dear colleagues, we have two bills on women and men, let us unite them both. So we're both going to listen, we're both going to discuss and then we're going to define ourselves, because they're on the same subject. No objections? There is a bill to amend some of Ukraine's legislative acts in relation to equal security. In connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men. Registration number 2598. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. Get ready for the Player, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u177	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, as Adam Ivanovich has announced, this project is a task given by the Ukrainian Parliament after the adoption of the Act on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men. It was the task of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to prepare a draft amendment to other laws to bring them into line with this basic law that was passed last year. The draft, which is now proposed for consideration, provides for amendments to the Code of Laws on the Work of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine concerning the unification of citizens, the law of Ukraine on collective agreements and agreements, and the authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine on human rights. These laws are amended by the provisions of the law on the equal rights and opportunities of women and men, detailing the ways in which social relations are regulated in accordance with these four laws that I have called. Please support this bill because it ensures the implementation of the previously adopted framework law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u178	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Leonid Ivanovich Graz is the chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u179	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered the bill, and the initiative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has been positively marked. However, the members of the committee noted that the bill was incomplete in terms of the extent of the necessary changes to the current legislation arising from the adopted Ukrainian Law on Equal Rights and Opportunities for Women and Men. In particular, in the framework law itself, the provisions on gender equality in work and the remuneration of work in collective bargaining and agreements are much broader, with the proposal to complement existing legislation in this area. This will narrow down the content of the law on the equal rights and opportunities of women and men and will not contribute to its implementation. We have come to the conclusions of other committees entrusted with the consideration of the bill, namely, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government, which recommends that the draft law be finalized. At the same time, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt it on the basis of the conclusion of the Scientific and Expert Authority that the bill is intended to reject, based on the fact that the law on ensuring equal rights and opportunities for women and men is determined by the need for changes to existing legislation, that our committee could not decide on its rejection, and therefore adopted a decision on the matter once again. I personally believe that it is important to adopt this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u180	Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich. Yes, we will now hear the second law on the same subject and discuss it together. There is a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men, registration number 2633. This is a series of authors. One of them's gone, but there's a Gritzak. Please. Among the authors. Vasil Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u181	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Gender policy is an important part of the democratic development of the Ukrainian State, which is evident in a series of legal instruments. When it comes to activities in the field of gender policy during 2002-2004, a great deal of work was done in this direction and the formation and implementation of the Ministry of Family, Children and Youth, which is an authorized body of state executive power in this area. In 2003, a letter was signed by the Prime Minister of Ukraine concerning the introduction of gender counsellors and the performance of these functions on public grounds by the deputy heads of the central executive authorities, as well as the deputy heads of the district administrations. At the parliamentary hearings on November 21, 2006, most of the issues cited were again raised as unrealized in Ukraine, including in the context of the establishment of gender advisers. As Adam Ivanovich has revealed that these laws are similar, and they are being considered together, I would ask the national MPs if you carefully watched and studied these laws, to be determined when voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u182	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Leonid Ivanovich Grac, please, the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u183	Honourable National Deputies, the bill provides for mandatory introduction into the central and local authorities of the executive branch of the state council on the issue of ensuring the equal rights and opportunities of women and men, and in the executive bodies of local self - government to identify an authorized person or coordinator on the same issues. In support of the idea of gender equality, members of the committee stressed the need to be able to make progress, as has already been done in practice, to appoint gender equality advisers on the basis of public principles, or to defer the issues to the responsibilities of one of the deputy directors of the executive branch. Today, there are not enough experts in Ukraine on gender equality and on their one - second appointment to all executive authorities, as required by the proposed law. It is only the beginning of the teaching of gender law in individual higher education institutions. Moreover, the adoption of the law can lead to costs not foreseen in the state and local budgets, and the financial and economic justification of the bill is unfortunately not available. The members of the committee consider the adoption of the bill to be premature and inappropriate and therefore to be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u184	Thank you, sit down, please. Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Are there no wanters? Women don't want to say a word? They do. Hanna Herman, please, microphone. No, they can.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u185	With regard to Bill 2633 and the idea of appointing counsellors, either on a regular basis or on a social basis. It seems to me that the problem of gender equality in Ukraine is so complex that it needs a whole set of measures, not the appointment of counselors, the dismemberment of state, state and district administrations, and central authorities, that it will cause only human outrage and really nothing to affect it. Neither is it. no longer will the appointment of gender counsellors on the basis of public policy. This is just the visibility of the problem, and a complex approach is needed. So I think it's worth listening to the first bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u186	Thank you. Women are justly opposed to blowing up states. Any other women? You won't? Then we'll determine. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men. Registration number 2598. Please vote. [[14:08:00]] For 231 Adopted in the first reading. And it's about the adoption vote on the basis of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the Equal Rights and Opportunities of Women and Men. [[on the rights of women in representative bodies]] Registration number 2633. I'd like to make a statement. [[2:08:34]] For-21 For "eye" is 21, but that is not enough. Bill rejected. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity is under consideration. [[on the exercise of a licensed commercial activity in the absence of a defined licensing body]] Registration number 2589, reports Long Taras Alexiyovich. Is it? There is no, please, then, from the committee of Matthews Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u187	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship considered the bill at its meeting on 6 January and decided to adopt it on first reading. The main task of the bill is the legislative settlement of business activities that are subject to licensing in the absence of a licensing mechanism for these activities. The Scientific and Expert Office also supported the Committee's decision, and they also agreed that the bill could be adopted on first reading. Simply put, what is it? If a business entity engages in an activity, it is legislatively decided that the activity should be settled and licensed. To enable him to continue his business and to obtain a license for this activity, the bill provides for the possibility, within 30 days of the announcement of the change of status, to say so, of this activity, to give him 30 days to obtain a license without ceasing his activities. Perhaps, by many indicators, its parameters would be appropriate and it would not be possible to refuse a license, so to put it bluntly, so to speak, let us say, an economic war over these very mechanisms, without ceasing any kind of activity, we propose the adoption of the bill on first reading. Maybe some kind of refinement so it won't be used on the other side. However, to allow this opportunity to protect business and to have positive moments in this direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u188	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there those who are willing to share in the discussion? The idea is clear. I'm voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity. [[on the exercise of a licensed commercial activity in the absence of a defined licensing body]] Registration number 2589. Initiative author: Long. Please vote. [[14:11:36]] For 242 Decision taken. Thank you. The law is adopted in the first reading. A draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Ukrainian Peoples' Deputies is under consideration. [[on the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the work of the Temporary Commissions]] Registration number 3028. Chairman of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and the Activities of the Supreme Council of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich, please. The author of the bill: Royal, member of BUTU. Please, what's the committee's opinion? The committee will give its opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u189	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. At the meeting of the Committee on 20 February, the Ukrainian Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chairman of the Supreme Council of 23 January this year reviewed the draft Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian People's Deputy of Ukraine. [[on the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the work of the Temporary Commissions]] The findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority since February 8th of this year. In addressing the issue of the relevance of the participation of Ukraine’s national deputy in the work of two or three bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee considered the work of the Supreme Council to be done. On the day of the Committee’s consideration, the Supreme Council of Ukraine made up 11 temporary commissions of inquiry and one temporary special commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In general, 41 draft decrees were submitted to the Supreme Council for the formation of commissions of inquiry, a large part of which were returned to the subjects of the legislative initiative in connection with improper preparation. The trend is being followed by the introduction by MPs of candidates to the interim commission of inquiry, which is represented by a limited circle of Ukrainian national deputies and is proposed to various commissions. At the same time, it should be noted that the restrictions on the participation of the Ukrainian national deputy in a single committee and a temporary commission pose some difficulties for parliamentary factions that have overcome the passing barrier in elections are not the first ones, others. The Committee supported the Chief Expert Office in the fact that the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine requires a comprehensive update and prepares appropriate changes to the law. The draft law under consideration does not take into account changes to the Constitution of Ukraine, which does not provide for the creation of parliamentary groups, but only MP factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u190	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u191	In this and other comments to the bill, the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be accepted on the basis of consideration, in the first reading in accordance with article 109, paragraph 1, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-14-m0.u192	Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Then let me say two words. Dear colleagues! I think the initiative deserves support, because, in fact, sometimes we limit people who are professional in a particular field, if he's already a member of a commission and they're creating another commission, then this deputy can't be a member of the commission anymore, because the status law forbids him. And sometimes it is worth allowing, as it suggests, that any national MP may be a member of one temporary special commission to produce a bill, and at the same time he may be, if his wishes and wishes are to be recommended by the faction, and still a member of the interim commission of inquiry. I think the idea here deserves support, so let's take it from the first reading, because here are some legal remarks to get the second committee to work and bring legal clarifications. I am betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis in the first reading of the Act on Amendments to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputies of Ukraine, registration number 3028, author of the Royal Natalia bill. [[on the participation of the Ukrainian National Deputy in the work of the Temporary Commissions]] Please vote. [[14:16:33]] For 238. Copy that. Dear colleagues, and the last bill, I deliberately called the authors and stressed that the drafters are the ones who sabotage the work of the Supreme Council. So the coalition is working for itself and for opposition. And I think we're going to deal with this mission that's put on Parliament and we're going to work with you successfully. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. And then we work in committees and factions. We're starting work tomorrow, as usual, at 10 a.m. Good luck.
