ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u1	Good morning, colleagues, guests, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, our upper chamber! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Turn the "Race" system on, we're registering. [[10:03:37]] There are 257 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our colleagues who are celebrating their birthday today, not all of them are striking work in the walls of Parliament, but we will not violate tradition. Today is the birthday of Bespalo Boris Jakovic, Vidrin Dmitr Gnatovich and Selovarov Andrija Borisovich. Dear colleagues, be careful. You know that during last day and this night, there are a lot of complicated processes going on in the state. On all sides, charges are being made against the local authorities, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I think we will treat you perfectly and logically if we now decide to immediately hear from the Minister of Internal Affairs today about the situation that has arisen both around the Attorney General's Office and around the Constitutional Court, and in general with the situation that we are in with you today. Is there any objection? I then put to the vote a motion for an urgent hearing of the interior minister's information at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:05:45]] For 252 Decision taken. I ask the Supreme Council apparatus to ensure the appearance of a minister for the information of the Supreme Council and our respective society. Dear colleagues, Friday. Not because Friday, but because of our determination, which you and I refer to each day during meetings, plenary meetings of the Supreme Council, we have 30 minutes to speak from factions and national deputies. Please register with the factions. Yes, now, please, who has an individual wish. You'll have to sign up for it. Yes. Please, the faction of the Party of Regions, Stoyan, to whom? Chechtev Mikhailo. Please stand by to prepare Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u2	Respectable compatriots! The events that took place at the premises of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and at the premises of the Attorney General’s Office rocked the whole of Ukraine. It became clear that the State Security Service was the first attempt to solve the conflict. In the morning, the State Service, under the direction of the newly appointed head of this organization, Wallery Hellet, blocked the Constitutional Court, tried not to allow the judges of the Constitutional Court to work, and then we saw the continuation of this scenario in the example of the Henprocurator. This, in our view, is already a visual confirmation of attempts to seize power in an unconstitutional way by using a force structure. In fact, these events that go beyond all limits, as well as the analysis of the human resources decisions taken by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine over the last two days: Alexander Turchinov's appointment as First Deputy Secretary of RNBO, Valery Hellet, Head of the Department of Agriculture and, finally, the release of Svetoslav Pisconus from the post of Henprocuror of Ukraine, are the chains of one chain that the Head of State seeks to resolve political issues by force. To that end, the next day, the President is pushing the nearest environment in the head of the Executive Board, Victor Baloga, his deputy, Roman Immortal and others. Remembering how these two politicians in 2004 developed the martyrdom scenario for the elections in this city, when the strong pressure at this Carpathian small settlement was overcome by common sense, gangs gained what was called a victory. So now similar experiences are being prepared to be implemented throughout the country. The ultimate goal of the President's efforts and his environment is to create an effective mechanism, called solely by force, to bring the process of usurpation of power in Ukraine to a logical conclusion. It is not the first time that the head of state has violated the Constitution of Ukraine. Not the exception or the release of Henprocuror. According to article 85 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Attorney General of Ukraine is appointed and relieved of office as President of Ukraine solely with the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. These standards are clearly laid down in the Constitution of Ukraine and are binding on execution, since the appointment or dismissal of the Henprocuror without the consent of the Supreme Council by the Constitution of Ukraine is not permitted. Neglect by the President of the Constitution can only indicate the desire in any way to transform an independent constitutional body, the Attorney General's Office, into a manual-managed institution. Despite this, on May 14, 2007, Svetoslav Piscoun wrote an application for parliamentary powers, which was handed over to the Supreme Council apparatus to prepare for its consideration at one of the meetings of the Supreme Council. Thus, the formulation that attempted to liberate Saint Piscoon does not correspond to reality and is, in fact, illegal. Victor Yushchenk's efforts to free Piscot from his post as Attorney General can only be seen as the President's next move to usurp power through the conversion of the Attorney General's Office to the branch of the President's Secretariat. A red - language confirmation of the fairness of such conclusions can be found in the information provided by us, according to which the executing responsibility of the Attorney General of Ukraine - Shemchuku has already been given instructions on the conduct of so - called cleansings in the regions, predicting that arrests are being prepared by appropriate force structures of political activists forming part of the National Unity Coalition. Fraction The regional parties urge the President of Ukraine to recognize the political consequences of the uncontrolled right-wing actions of the authorities and officials under his control. The Head of State must also realize that because of the constant violation of the Constitution, which. What? What we see from time to time in the President's decisions and decrees is that democracy in Ukraine is now in the greatest danger. The faction of the Party of the Regions once again warns both the President and all the developers of this devastating scenario for Ukraine about, indeed, the catastrophic consequences that Ukraine can have on the practical implementation of the plans mentioned above. Ukraine is a European country and our fellow countrymen will not allow it to be a forceful solution to events and the usurpation of power by one person who is currently supported by less than 5 percent of voters. The National Unity Coalition offers everyone fair competition and fair competition. We reiterate our principled position, and the next election will take place in Ukraine only after the decision of the Constitutional Court. The coalition insists on such an algorithm, calling for PARE’s decision. The authority of the single constitutional body should respect all parties to the political process, and the decision of this body is only possible for the return of political crisis to legal space, which will be the basis and basis for the holding of extraordinary elections in an honest and legitimate manner. We will protect the constitutional system of Ukraine by all constitutional and legal means. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u3	Thank you. Yeah, a faction of socialists, who? Mendus Jaroslav, please. Instead of Tuckchenka from the Communist faction, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The events of the last days strongly indicate that Victor Yushchenko finally rejected the course of compromise. The strong scenario of the solution to the political problem by Yashchenkom and the martyrdom group at the President’s Secretariat was developed long ago. Two weeks ago, a responsible official of the President’s Secretariat distributed information about the alleged assassinations that were planned. This provocation failed. Then Victor Yushchenko decided, through the National Security and Defence Council, to illegally resign the Cabinet of Ministers. However, decent experts such as Radbezu Secretary Vitaly Hayduk and his first deputy, Valerius Horoshkovsky, broke the script by resigning to protest against other adventure plans. At that time, the President’s environment decided to inspire provocation by the hands of the coworkers of the power structures, namely, the Department of Public Protection. Yushchenko ordered that the Constitutional Court's protective unit be blocked to prevent judges from considering illegal decrees concerning the early termination of parliamentary powers. But the head of State Security, Peter Pluto, who had worked with Viktor Andryovich for many years, refused to obey illegal orders. On May 23, the President changes Pluto to Peter Opanasenka in the hope that illegal orders for the blockade of the Constitutional Court will be carried out by the new head of the Department of Public Protection. General Opanasenko, in turn, has also shown principle and has refused to follow the illegal orders of our own, pardon me, the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution. Then Victor Yushchenko goes on another provocation -- he removes Opanasenko from his post without any explanation, without any motivation, and appoints one of the few people who are willing to transgress the law -- Valery Hellet. Helette Yushchenko can be counted because Helette is the right hand of the leader of the torture group Victor Baloga. In spite of all the rules of promotion on the service stairs of Balog, the Major General's Hellet has been assigned. Now he is working, setting up a line of staff at the Department of State, in which he has never served before, the specifics of which he does not know and the attitude toward which he has never had. Mukatov General Heletaj, along with the guards, tried to block the Constitutional Court, but the people’s deputies failed. I would like to turn all citizens to the dignified conduct of security workers who have been forced to carry out deliberately criminal orders and orders. None of them showed enthusiasm and official zeal The Constitutional Court was blocked. Having seen that the provocation in the Constitutional Court failed Yushchenko on purpose on the day he went to radicalize the conflict and signed another illegal order for the resignation of the Attorney General of Ukraine. More than that, the grounds for the resignation were intended because, in full compliance with the law of Piscoon on 14 May, a copy of the application was made, applying for a parliamentary mandate. However, Helletaj tried to take over the Attorney General’s Office, again, by the state’s security forces. Under the orders of Attorney General Piscoon, the Ministry of Internal Affairs has unlocked the Office of the Attorney General. Yushchenko today, this is no longer the president of all of Ukraine, this is the president of one Party "Our Ukraine", this is the president of civil war. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament, all international and European democratic institutions call on Ukrainian politicians to negotiate only on the basis of the Constitution and the law. As to the actions of Yushchenka, he is trying to destroy all law enforcement institutions in the state, both the courts, and the prosecution. Yushchenko says he wants to establish democracy, and everyone who doesn't respond to his notions of democracy is calling criminals and corrupters. Yushchenka is hampered by almost the entire country, he is fighting with the Constitutional Court, the District Courts, the Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council. Yushchenko is willing to declare outside the law all those who live beyond the concepts of his business partners and his torture group. I'm asking for 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u5	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u6	He's willing to outlaw the entire state apparatus. Yushchenko is actually declaring outside the law the will of voters who gave the mandate of trust to the parliamentary majority in the 2006 democratic elections. I have no doubt that Yushchenko will continue to be in charge on the next day and will want to change dozens of other officials and judges. But I'm sure, after the President's Secretary's invasion on 24 May, all the co-workers of the power structures, the entire Ukrainian society understood -- a man in a peaceful country trying to resolve a civil conflict cannot be called the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution. Yushchenko is the president of the civil war today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u7	Thank you, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, the faction of Communists behind him, Headmaster, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u8	Thank you. Statement by the Ukrainian Company of Deputies. The concluding days of May brought us the memorable events related to his heroic history of the Great Homeland War to the Ukrainian people. Today, 120 years have passed since the birth of the glorious son of Soviet Ukraine, the talented and courageous partisan general, the wise statesman, and the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Kovpak Sidor Artemovich. Tomorrow, in the village of Krimka of the Pervomajski district of Mikolayovska, young people will gather for their traditional take-off to celebrate the 65th anniversary of the underground Komsomol youth organization “Partizanska škra”. May 26 is also 65 years old from the execution in Poltava of the leaders of the underground youth organization “Unsurpassed Poltavcanka” Lalu Ubivovk and Sergija Sapigu. They were all real folk heroes, given up for freedom and independence to the most expensive country they had -- life. And we bow our heads low against the bright memory of young patriots. But today we are forced, sadly, to speak no more of the events, dear hearts of all honest people. Ukraine is plunged into political cataclysm and opposition by the bad will of Yashchenka and her orange counterparts. Regrettably, the worst case scenario that the Communists have ever warned about. Yushchenko and his clans are unable to rule the country, but they are completely capable of losing our statehood. Every day, society is shocked by new and new reports of brutal abuse, now anti-guarantee of the Constitution over the Basic Law of the country, over any law in general, over all three branches of the legislative, executive and judicial power. Twice, in an unconstitutional way, by issuing its decrees to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council on a time-by-date basis and to appoint new parliamentary elections, Yushchenko no longer knows his back in the criminal effort to bring about an anti-government coup in Ukraine and to usurp power in his own hands. With unprecedented pressure and threats, unwarranted resignations of three members of the Constitutional Court, illegal decisions against them by the Shevchenkov Rysud, at last forceful actions against the refusal of high court members to their jobs, which is called paralysing the activities of the highest body for the observance of the Constitution. The president’s party has been repressing and prosecuting local courts, allowing them to make unfavorable decisions. Guided by the evil principle: “King and God himself, judge and prosecutor” – our evil president has revealed all the gateways to the forcible Fascism of the country, the establishment of ideologies of national extremism and neo-fascism. And it is done as the chief ideologist of the Fascists of all the Goebbels paintings commanded, using the cynical principle: “The scarier the lie, the faster they will believe it.” It was May, the holy month for our people, that the month of great victory over Fascism that Yushchenko used to publish his blasphemous decree to commemorate the century of Roman Shuhevich, former officer of the diversional battalion Abber “Nakhtigal”, the cavalryman of the Golden Cross, the head of the UPA, on whose conscience tens of thousands of dead and tortured representatives of intelligence, guerrillas and soldiers, peaceful inhabitants. In addition, to the extent that it may not give up, a decree to honor the memory of the Stacks ’ couple, one of whom, Jaroslav Stecko, was a collaborator and loyal associate of Bandera, who was brought to Lviv in 1941 in the service of Hitler’s invaders and climbed before them as he could. I cannot go back to the events in Poltava that were discussed yesterday by our coalition colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u9	Three minutes of Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u10	Thank you. Yushchenka's efforts with the help of once again the right to betray Petlur as a hero of Ukraine and his locals in a questionable way to put this scenario into practice will never be accepted, but rather decisively and permanently rejected by the Ukrainian people. We address all the patriotic forces, the officials, the authorities of local self-government, our compatriots, not to comply with these orders of the Yuschenk, which are not based on respect for the Constitution, historical truth, and ultimately common sense. And last night, you might say, the provocation attracted behind the ears by a savage argument with the Attorney General, whom Yushchenko restored to office only three weeks ago on the basis of his well-organized decision by the Shevchenkov Court, confirms once again what Yashchenka's team is capable of. The president and his surroundings today do not want to be aware of the extent of the threat to food security in Ukraine. Its day - to - day heat and drought, which has taken on the most bready regions of Ukraine, has intensified the unprecedented spring heat and drought. The Head of State has not yet been able to sign the Law on the Essential Increase of Pensions and Wages, expected by millions of pensioners, teachers and doctors. His Secretariat is impersonally returning to the Supreme Council in such a way that the President is not represented by the laws adopted by Parliament in the interests of Ukraine and its people. Yushchenka and his favorites have one pain, one disease, one struggle -- let's make a fresh election. Return all power to the President. The sharp political crisis, which was created in the country of Yushchenko and its associates in two and a half years and confirmed once again the correct position of the Communists, Ukraine does not need the President’s Institute at all, and even more so is the Head of State such as Yushchenko, his black actions are already being drawn to the relevant articles of the Criminal Code. We all have to make it clear that every day we're under the command of the Yushchenko national extremists and neo-phasists, it's a reverse threat to Ukraine's imminent collapse as a single state. The Communist Party of Ukraine, for its part, will do its utmost not to make this threat a reality and to share not only with partners in the coalition of national unity but all of whom today are dear to the fate of the country and its future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u11	Thank you. Sergei Petrovich Golovatius has the word from., well, not from “Our Ukraine”, the representative of “Our Ukraine”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! Yesterday's almost historic speech by President Yushchenk is a vivid example of that phenomenon, which is shaped in folk wisdom by the phrase “keep the thief”. Yushchenko has historically stated that Minister Tsushko has usurped power. Please tell me, what authority did Minister Tsushko usurp? Was it Minister Tsuko twice unconstitutionally disbanding the Supreme Council, usurping the legislative authority, or removing the legislative authority from his powers? Is it that Minister Tsusko has dismissed the judges of the Constitutional Court in order not to participate in the session to decide? Is that what Minister Tsusko recommended that the judges go to Feofania to block the Constitutional Court's activities? Is that what Minister Tsushko told the doctors yesterday to do the surgery when there were no medical signs of an emergency, when there was no need for surgery today? Perhaps by risking the life of this person, this judge? Who did this, Minister Tsushko or Dusia, who is subordinated to the President, because Feofania is still governed by the Dusei? I've been talking about Feofania for a long time, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. This is the killer who has existed since Soviet times, there and Szczerbicky died, there died Yvashchenko, there died many, and there is easy control of life, health, and human life. So we have to think about what to do with this Phoenician. It should be subordinated to the Ministry of Health, not to the President. What's that? Did Minister Tsusko establish control over the Ukrainian prosecutor's office by appointing the Attorney General?Oh, my God! Where does the Constitution or the law hold such a position? So who is usurping power in Ukraine? And this is all coming from the President and his warring squad, where opposition is just cannon meat. They don't even know it. And now three, two and a half minutes for the lawyers. But also for politicians. Because today, speakers say that the President of Ukraine has released the Sandman. Please tell me where you are in President Yushchenk's decree to release Attorney General Piscoon from office. There's no such phrase because it's in the Constitution that it has the right to appoint and release, but there's no such phrase. So what kind of release are you talking about? What kind of release do journalists talk about? I, knowing the caucus of these cynical lawyers who serve the Yashchenka, understand how they are now boisterous: how did we make them? How did they do that? So Yushchenko, when the president canceled the decree, canceled the order for the appointment of the Bear. Which means, knowing that he can't release the Sandman right now, he's issuing an order to repeal that decree. What does that mean for lawyers, I ask you, lawyers? Repealing the decree means a legal return to the legal status that existed at the time of the issuance of the decree that was cancelled. What does that mean? That from the day the decree was issued, the legal status that was, that is, the Attorney General is Medvedzko. That's what's legal. This legal caseuism is very important because the dismissal of a person from office does not entail the abolition of the legal consequences of the person’s activity in office. Everything she did was legitimate, all her orders, documents, orders they have legal power. But if the edict is invalidated, all that followed that decree, which has already been repealed, is legally illegal and all is legitimate continuation of what was before that state. Lawyers understand that. As a result, respectable associations were not the release of Attorney General Piscoon. Either way, whoever the Attorney General is today, whether it's Medvedzko or Piscoon, is not a criminal, because the Crimea prosecutor is not subject to President Yashchenk. There is no administrative subordination of prosecutors to the President, this is not his administration. And another procedural moment, if you'll excuse me. Procedural moment. Introducing an order, who announced it? Secretary of the RNBO. Well, what did it look like the NSA secretariat had to do with the President's decrees? Because the secretariat is preparing draft decrees, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u13	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u14	And it should be made by the head of the secretariat, not by the secretary of the RNB. It's clear what all these machinations are doing. Finally. I now understand and realize that those who, at the time of the action "Ukraine without Couchma" and today are practically all of President Yushchenk's, they were not fighting autocracy, they were fighting the Kuchma regime, they were fighting Kuchma personally. For you see the autocratism of the House smelling them, and volunteerism, malice and despotism, and the self-sufficientness of the Yuschenka smells to them. So in closing, I want to tell the Minister of Internal Affairs: Bravo!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u15	Sergey Petrovich, don't take my line as a comment, but those you just called, I emphasize, had no part in the “Ukraine without the Couchma” action. On the contrary, they called us fascists. That's why. And what they fought against, more loyally, not against, but because of their personal presence in power, you are absolutely right here. The word has Tkachenko instead of Gerasimov. And then Bronnick will perform.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u16	Statement by the Communist MP in the Supreme Council on the situation in the agricultural sector of the economy of Ukraine. Honorable citizens of Ukraine, distinguished national MPs! The Ukrainian Communist Party faction in the Supreme Council is today forced to make a statement on the critical situation in the agricultural sector and in accordance with the food security of the state in 2007-2008. The free and anti - state reform of the agrarian sector of the economy has led to the destruction of the state’s scientifically sound agricultural system. Food resources in 15 years of new power have been cut threefold, the population has decreased by 7 million, the physical degradation of the nation in connection with unbalanced human consumption has been reduced by 10 years, and the life expectancy of the population has been reduced by 15 years. The threat posed today in a bioclimate way indicates that 2007 will be unproductive, and Ukraine is facing food security and shock. At present, 12 regions of the 24th Republic, with a weight of over 60 percent in food grain, technical crops and food production, are in critical condition – the steppe and the woodchopper area of the state. The crop harvest is projected to be 60 percent to the expected yield. In the rest of the regions, as a result of a prolonged rainfall deficit, supplies of productive moisture have declined to a critical level, leading to the absence of stairs for sugar beets, sunflowers, and bright crops. The situation in vegetation will certainly have a negative impact on the animal industry and will result in a significant reduction in the production of milk, meat, eggs, and a heavy burden on the food supply of the population. Ukraine is not Russia and has no oil, no gas, no enough gold to compensate for imports of food resources. The way out of this situation is to look for our own. Today, Ukraine is not ready for the election of the Supreme Council, but it is essential to find a fundamental solution to the food supply situation. We are addressing the President, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Prime Minister, to reject all strife. The Constitution and laws do not give you enormous governmental powers; you bear the full responsibility for the welfare and health of the nation. History will not forgive if at the beginning of the third millennium.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u18	We're asking you to step into the situation, not to allow thoughtless spending on anti-constitutional electoral campaigns, but to channel all available reserves and financial resources into agricultural conservation, to prepare them for harvesting and to lay the foundation for the 2008 crop. The Cabinet of Ministers needs to develop a balance of food and feed grains, sugar, oil crops, animal production, stop issuing licences for all types of agricultural exports, find at least 13-15 billion. Money to buy and create a government reserve of all kinds of food. Particular attention should be paid to the creation of seed funds, mineral fertilizers, and plant protection products. A thorough review of the material and technical security system of the village's workers is fuel, electricity and coal. Use of irrigated land to take state control, review the budget and make specific proposals to the Supreme Council on these issues and no later than 29-30 May this year. The Communists are confident that the President, the Supreme Council, will understand the urgency of the problem and will do whatever is necessary to ensure that the Ukrainian people survive the natural disaster and come out victorious. All of us, dear friends, must bear in mind that our people have served their fate with you, and we must vindicate this high trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u19	Thank you. Bronnick's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u20	Dear colleagues! The Constitution defines the powers of the President. All he signs above these powers is no more than the papers signed by the Ukrainian Yushchenko, who somehow reached the presidency. These papers are of the same nature. The hope of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, which will eventually become transparent and will begin to follow the law, as has been shown by practice, is unfounded. However, the country faces very serious challenges. One now said by Aleksandr Nikolaevich Tkachenko: the worst drought in Ukraine. We need to prepare for the winter. The 2007 Budget Act needs to be implemented and is in line with Ukraine's expectations of higher pensions for higher wages. The dynamics of economic development need to be maintained; the 2008 budget needs to be prepared. Yes, and in the end, preparations for Euro-2012 are a landmark for Ukraine. The time has come for the Supreme Council to assume responsibility as a legitimate body, a law-abiding body as a legislative body, a legislative authority. I believe that it is necessary to amend the Rules urgently in order to enable the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to fulfil its responsibilities and to meet the expectations of the Ukrainians both in the East and the West and in the South and in the North. We can't wait for the President and his environment to come into shape. I call on the MPs to realize their responsibility to the people of today, the responsibility that most people have rewarded us is democracy. We must take responsibility and give the Cabinet of Ministers the opportunity to do what is expected of the entire people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u21	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an exchange of views on issues of concern to society today, which means that they are concerned with the MPs. I wanted to close down a few nuances in order to answer some of the questions that are going on today and during this conversation, and in people's conversations, in calls and so on. And a lot of MPs came up with that. And I have direct conversations with some people who are concerned about the situation that require some clarification. Well, first of all, with regard to the situation in the Attorney General's Office, yesterday was, in fact, an opportunity to encounter strong structures with poorly projected consequences. You could say it's tragic. And a lot of people are starting to explain that the police were doing something wrong there. For this reason today, I think Sergey the Headman was convincing in his speeches. But attention should be paid to such a detail, the Attorney General's Office is protected under a contract by the State Security Service, the so-called “Titan”, subordinated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. And the State Security Department, which is now under the President's jurisdiction, there are no functions in the State Security Service Act that we saw on the television screen yesterday. The law does not provide for these functions, the seizure of premises, the bringing of officials with the help of this service -- it has nothing to do with the law on the State Security Service. So I'm reminding you of the responsibility of the director of this service, which, by the way, as decided yesterday by the Supreme Council, will be invited for information on the implementation of the Law, which is, by the way, the requirement of the 21st article of the Law on the State Security Service. He will report to the Supreme Council what he is doing. If he goes beyond his responsibilities, he will be responsible for his activities on the basis of the Criminal Code. I would like to remind you once again that the discharge and appointment of the Attorney General is governed by article 85, paragraph 5, of article 106, paragraph 11, of article 122 of the Constitution of Ukraine, with the consent of the Supreme Council. No one asked the Supreme Council for the reasons of dismissal or the appointment of the Attorney General. So let those who comment on the situation be thrown out of their heads, referring to the President’s appropriate decree. And one more thing. It should be borne in mind that there is still a law on the Attorney General's Office. There is still the order provided for by the State Service Act when the head of the institution or enterprise or organization, by dismissing under different circumstances, hands over his authority or exercising his authority as its first deputy, but not by any official in Ukraine, including the President, to whom the unsubordinated prosecutors of the areas of which Sergey the Head was very convincingly expressing. I'd like to comment on these things in front of those who are interested in the situation to be able to explain it. Next. Victor Andryovich's statements at our President's press conference seem somewhat ambiguous. When he held a press conference, more faithfully, meeting with the muscle, then I said, I warned them, look. He's very clean in front of the citizens, he's talking about the inability to use the power structures, and the service, it's subordinated to him, he's seizing the prosecution's office, he's fighting local battles there. Then the question arises, Are they the ones who came there or what? And the president doesn't know that these people are in the prosecution's office? Whether in the Constitutional Court the premises are seized and it is unknown who occupied the premises of the Constitutional Court or did not miss the judges of the Constitutional Court on certain grounds solely by order of the General Court, which, by the way, does not have the right to make such decisions. Then the question arises, is it the will of the head of state, or is it against his will? Then he should apparently release those whom he has the right to appoint, or release, without the approval of the Supreme Council, let him put order in this regard. Once again, the provocations we saw on television last night have one source, starting with the President's famous decrees of April 2nd, starting with yesterday's obvious orders that don't match the essence of public messages. I'm sorry to say this, because it's about the President who acted in this case within the limits of the mistakes that have already been made here yesterday, and I've been talking about it. And so once again, I can point out that the Minister of the Interior acted adequately yesterday, stopped the adventure with the ill-foreseeable consequences, and more faithfully with the obvious consequences. That is why we can recognize that, and especially in this case, he acted entirely in accordance with the law, the Constitution and the will of Parliament. Now. Yesterday, the question was raised that the minister of defense in Poltava had expressed some of these ambiguous meanings, regarding the fact that the army was governed by law, but at the same time it could be involved in other duties under the authority of the President. I think we should go to the Cabinet of Ministers to find out the essence of these issues ourselves, we will not do a proper analysis right now, let the Cabinet of Ministers put all the dots over the "and" and express its thoughts on this. Because it's quite possible that the minister there was talking about, for example, using an army in emergencies or in other ways, but let him explain it to whoever he's working with in the Cabinet of Ministers. Continued pressure on the Constitutional Court This is evident in many cases, in many facts, and the question arises: how does the Ukrainian Security Service call on a judge of the Constitutional Court to be questioned? It's a very strange situation. To whom the Ukrainian Security Service is subordinate, everyone knows. How can the Ukrainian Security Service question a judge of the Constitutional Court? Where is this in world practice, and under what circumstances is this all explained? Except for one pressure on the Constitutional Court by the President's Institute. There are no other conclusions here. Note that the same judge who banned the three judges of the Constitutional Court from being judges yesterday reversed his decision. And I suspect he's already read the law, and the judges of the Constitutional Court, and other normative positions, and he's made his sworn oath, and he's done what the judge of general jurisdiction is supposed to do. But this is another confirmation that there is no way for the Ukrainian Security Service to intervene in the work of the Constitutional Court today. And that means that we, as a parliament, will obviously have to look at the Ukrainian Security Service law later and look at the functional responsibilities of this structure, because it seems to continue to implement those powers that were in the previous state. And that's not appropriate in any way, because we're going to democracy, and interference is unacceptable. By analyzing or summarizing all the conversation that has taken place today during the exchange of views with the deputies, I would like to say that without the decision of the Constitutional Court on the President's decrees, there will be no questions for the term in the Supreme Council. It's a requirement of law, it's a recommendation from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it's an actual state of affairs. I repeat: the decision of the Constitutional Court, and then you can look at any questions that are relevant, including the early elections. According to the Rules, I'm announcing requests from national deputies. Sergia Chukmasova to the Prime Minister on the illegal release of a member of the National Commission on Communications Management of Ukraine, Sergio Apasov. Alexia Malinowski to the Attorney General on the violation of the deadline for reply to the parliamentary appeal of March 23 by the Secretary of the President of Ukraine. Gennady Savosin to the Attorney-General on the violation of the rights of a limited-liability society with the scientific and manufacturing agribusiness “Prina Delil”, the Biological Region, the Hmelnicke District in the implementation of the agreement on the production and purchase of sugar beet with limited responsibility for the investment and manufacturing company Agro-sugar. You voted on the question of the inclusion in the order of the day and listening to the information of Interior Minister Vasil Petrovich Tsushka, he came to the meeting and I invite him to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. As everyone knows, yesterday there was an attempt at political raiding, an attempt to seize the Attorney General's Office by civilians unknown. A chronology of events that I know of: Mr. Krisco, Assistant Attorney-General, called me: “I have a mandate from the Attorney-General to ask you to take immediate action to release and maintain order in the Office of the Attorney-General, and to release the Attorney-General, who is blocked and prevented from acting.” I came to the Attorney General's office. Why did I come here in person? Because some now speak and reason on television, the minister might not come, he has subordinates. Yes, I'm not used to hiding behind the backs of the militia. So it's time to understand a lot of people, I said that. So I came in person. He asked me to open the gate, and many of you were members of the people, and they were already standing there, and they wouldn't let you in. By the way, there's also a violation of the law because they're preventing you from fulfilling your laws, your legitimate functions. I asked you to open the door. They didn't open the door. I've given the command to open the gate. They've opened the gate. Next. We came to the door where the office is in the building where the Attorney General's office is located. The door was closed. Knocked, asked to open. Nobody opened the door, the door was locked. I had the team open the door. Next, you and I went up to the fourth floor together. You've all seen about a dozen people in civilian clothes, who they are, blocking the entrance to the corridor where the Attorney General's office is located. After they refused to let us in, me and you, those deputies that were there with me, then I let the team unlock. So when asked who was giving the orders, I gave the command to open the door and let me go to the Attorney General. So, after that, you're witnessing again that we started demanding where the Attorney General is. The door to his reception was closed. We started knocking, we said if you didn't open the door, then we'd open it ourselves. He was released by the Attorney General of Piscoon, unknown to which office and where he was blocked. Then they opened the door to his reception room. You all saw that the door to the Attorney General's office, the double door was knocked down, and there was a pogrom, in short. You've all seen it and witnessed it. I went to the Attorney General's office and asked him, "Do you need to make arrangements now?" “Yes, we must ensure, I beg you, start a police force and remove all civilians from the territory of the Attorney-General's Office who are illegally present there.” Because the Department of Public Protection, which has protected up to today, has the right to arrive in the form of security before nine o'clock in the morning, in accordance with the letter of the Attorney General and the contract, and according to the timetable of those who are on duty, not just to anyone who has no form, and then to various sports, let's say, combat missiles in bags, as you have witnessed them again. So, the Attorney-General asked him to ensure that we reported to him that we had taken everything into custody, everything in the Attorney-General's Office was fine, publicly before the press he asked that the order had been set before the panel already, he had started working on the panel, they had approached the panel by decision of the panel that we had taken to official protection, but at that point he asked that Birkut be removed from the Office of the Attorney-General. I gave the team, "Berkut" married the D.A.'s office and was guarding the street. So, next. For those of you who don't understand, including senior officials, I explain that Birkut is a public security police, it's not a special unit, it's not an internal army, it's not an internal army, it's not an internal force that was used anywhere yesterday, it's just public order. “Berkut” came out, after which the Attorney-General wrote that we would like to conclude a contract with the Attorney-General for the protection of the Attorney-General’s Office. In a police force in the Ukrainian Ministry of Public Protection, you and a lot of people, citizens of our country, see Titan written on their backs, usually this type of logo. Thus, yesterday a contract was concluded by the Deputy Attorney-General, who is responsible for the territorial regime, for the territorial protection of a contract with the Director, namely, the Chief, because he is an officer, a colonel, means that with the Head of the State Security Service, Comrade Sidorenko, the Police, the State Security Service specifically, takes protection under the contract to the Attorney-General's Office, because the Office of the Attorney-General is a non-obligatory facility for the protection of the Office of the State Security Service. The Office of the State Security Service protects 4 sites: the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Registry of the President, the Constitutional Court. All of it. And high-ranking officials, everyone else is free. Today, the Attorney General's Office can terminate the contract and hire a security firm, and is entitled to do so. That's what I want everyone to understand. Let's move on. What I'm trying to say is that yesterday, it sounded like I exceeded my powers. I didn't exceed anything. I acted consciously and gave the teams consciously. Yeah, I've been emotional. I am a human being, and not a hard rock, and I was immediately torn out and shown in the context of not letting go first, these civilians. Once and for all, when journalists were not released to film the tools with which this person was held in civilian form by the Attorney-General's office. When they opened it and showed it. So I apologize for my emotions. I assure you further that you will see less emotion from me when I fulfill my duties. On the question of the seizure of the Attorney General's Office. Criminal proceedings have been instituted in the Attorney-General's Office. There's an investigation. The results of the investigation, I think we'll hear from you. Next. It's not Tsushko's today, it's not the MVD system. The question is that the MVD system is in charge with me today, and I've talked about it, and I've warned you that anyone who goes by force will get, as it were, teeth, let's say, public. So we got it yesterday. Because it's politically unacceptable! Unacceptable! And I'm intruding, why? There would be no IMF position today, there would be no Supreme Council here and we wouldn't be sitting here and working. And yesterday I realized that you existed because you didn't accept the Attorney General's resignation from the post of deputy. I realized that he had been removed because of this. I mean, you're not divorced, as far as I can tell. I'm not going to claim I'm not a lawyer as qualified as Mr. Chief. But I knew it was true. And I trust the Chief in this case. Let's move on. There would be no Cabinet of Ministers and there would be no institution, there would be dictatorship. And I want to do it for the first time today, they tell me that I'm getting involved in politics, that I stay involved in politics! Because further lying is impossible to listen to! And I love telling the truth. It is true that I stated this in a special opinion at the National Security Council meeting when the President's first decree was being considered. I told the President: “Write down as a special opinion, under the Law on PNP, I am a member of the PNP by post. Write down that you are today throwing the country into tragedy and voting today for these illegal dissolutions of Parliament that you have put the country in tragedy. Because the price of this tragedy is to put the country at Timoshenko's feet, which makes me a criminal yesterday. And these people, I call them Timoshenko, the Turks, Baloga, the Hellettes, the Puckshins, these are all the people who are running everything that's going on today. And I regret that the President of the country is going on this five-person call. Let's move on. Today they're starting to resent it. Tushko doesn't go there, right here. I will not go to those institutions that issue illegal acts today and that place the country on the brink of civil war. I, the Minister of the Interior of the country, will ensure order. And I'm the only one who's personally responsible for what kind of strength to pull here to ensure order. And I thank all the militias and assure all the militias there will be no criminal orders on my part and don't be afraid that I will give you an order to answer. And not one of you, comrades of the militia, I will not submit. I'll answer it myself. Let's move on. There's a desire to free Tsuko, no problem. Yesterday, the President spoke at a press conference that Tsushko had violated and so on. Please allow it to operate in accordance with the Constitution, the law, the appeal to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is giving you this. Count me in, resign me. But beyond the law, I will not go out and allow anyone, including any higher or less senior official. Even more so, those who, without any law, enter and seize the holy saints of the Attorney-General's Office. Then what right will we be speaking? And more.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u24	Another moment is very important. I want to tell him from the Supreme Council's rostrum. And that's where they start, Tsuko's bed under Yanukovich. No one I didn't put up with. I lie under the Constitution, under the laws of the police. And as long as you hold me there as Minister, I will do so and I will be under these two documents of Ukraine. And one more moment is important. Corda, you appointed me first number, and I, of course, became the secretary to decide the faction. It's unexpected for me at all. I confess to you, with my political experience. I am still four times a member of Parliament, in my position, I seem to know politics, I didn't know Yanuković personally as a person and I was afraid, I'm telling you the truth and I'm telling you the truth, and you can see the members of the Party of Regions how you want it, but I was afraid. I think, well, everyone, Yanukovitch was painted with a monster, and as an MP with that kind of experience, I felt like I was going to be a minister now, calling me up and saying, don't touch that. Don't touch it, don't touch it. I have been working for almost six months and I want to say that I have not heard from Yanukovic, and I am obliged to report to him on a weekly basis on what cases are being raised, what persons are involved, who become a client of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in these cases. There are often people, let's say, from a variety of political forces, including related ones, let's say, in their own colors and to coalitions or wearing portraits. We have different portraits. Let us recognize that it is in the whole country and in any party. So when I report, I've been hearing from Yanukovitch for six months, and I'm saying it for the citizens, and I'm telling you, act by law. There have been a few times when I've talked about these figures more or less, sometimes if the court decides, I'll call them, before the trial, I won't be sounding. You know what he told me? Let them die of their appetites, and if they do, act according to the law. And Janukovic doesn't manipulate the police, it's true. And now, the police of the country, believe me, it's very comfortable to work, difficult, hard, but comfortable. Because we don't get any orders or orders. We act by the Constitution, by the law of the militia. And what they're trying to do is spread us out for the same purpose that, yes, in this country, they're trying to do a dictatorship. So I'm a responsible person, not much, I'm not afraid of all this intimidation. There's a reason why I need to be held accountable under the law. But there will be no bounds, I won't allow it on any side as long as I'm a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u25	Thank you. If you have any questions. None. Thank you. It's all clear. I think that information, thanks to the MPs for taking such an initiative and thanking the minister for doing this information, because it's needed not only by the audience here in the room, but obviously by the citizens who listen to this information, because we have so many interpreters that when you listen, you can be terrified that he read where he invented it. Because we have a fundamental law, and there's a whole bunch of laws that regulate state law. They need to be guided, and if you've got something going on with your head, and you're saying your thoughts, you're saying them out loud, so nobody can see, or lick, excuse me, on the screen, and everyone starts to powder their brains. We need to act clearly by law and so will be done in the state regarding all things and great things, such as elections or not elections, and specific human rights, and the functioning of appropriate institutions and so on. We have registered the Supreme Council Order, the draft Decree, registration number 3572 on the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations and law enforcement officers. Even in the context of our conversation, we may need to make a decision on the matter and identify ourselves. I'm putting to the vote the question of including this issue in the agenda, please. [[11:08:53]] For 247 Decision taken. Because once again, I'm probably going to take advantage of the possibility that it's better than a microphone to read a document so that it can be defined, and that people know what we vote for, and then we'll make decisions, make proposals, etc. Thus, the content of the decree is: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: It's number one. Accept the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the military forces of Ukraine for other military formations and law enforcement officers. This address is added, I'll read it. The other one. Recommendation the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine to immediately give a legal assessment of the physical obstacles to the access of the judges of the Constitutional Court to this court and to the forceful capture of the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine by the employees of the Office of State Protection of Ukraine. Third. The Cabinet of Ministers shall ensure public order and the protection of the rights of Ukrainian citizens and the normal functioning of state institutions.” And a statement that we can confirm on the basis of this determination. “The appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the military, the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations and law enforcement officers. On April 2, 2007, President Yushchenko of Ukraine under the pressure of irresponsible political forces for the absence of any constitutional basis, issued a decree on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council, which led to a sharp increase in the political situation in Ukraine. Conscious of the danger of involving the armed forces of Ukraine, other military formations and law enforcement officials in solving the political conflict, the Supreme Council, in its address of April 6th this year, stressed that military officials, law enforcement officers, were sworn not by the President of Ukraine, not by any other official or political force, but sworn allegiance to the Ukrainian people. At the same time, the events of the last days indicate that the President of Ukraine, while not giving up the idea of securing the holding at any cost of arbitrarily appointed out-of-charge elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is hotly deploying law enforcement officials to search for a person capable of violating the law to satisfy the President's wishes and to force his subjects to do so. Some examples of such personnel policies by the President of Ukraine are changes in the leadership of the RNB, a new assignment, in the paws, the Attorney General of Ukraine, the second in the last term of the appointment of the Head of State Security of Ukraine. The implementation of adventurous intentions began with attempts to physically impede access by the Constitutional Court to this court’s home, the intense capture of the office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and the Constitutional Court, who had been suspended in time by law enforcement officials. The media report on the Greek Defense Minister’s alleged illegal use of Ukrainian military personnel in solving political opposition is of great concern. The Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the armed forces of Ukraine, other military formations and law enforcement officers to be faithful to the Constitution and the law, to their oath and to their civic position to protect Ukraine from civil conflict. Parliament once again recalls the irreparability of legal responsibility for violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. This is the content of a reference and a determination that gives him the right to life. Is there a need to discuss? Is it? Please sign up. It would be desirable for us to listen to three thoughts from the factions and then conclude the discussion. It's going to be democratic, as Catherine Semenovna says. Please sign up. Head, please. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u26	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I have only one small right. Perhaps it would be more faithful to replace the word “employees” with “employees” because the employees are probably technical workers and others. The legal responsibility for law enforcement is vested in officials. So this is for consideration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u27	Okay. Well, actually, no one can have to comply with the Constitution. Maybe a coworker. But let's put it this way: "persons". And they are all practically in office there. It's a different legal status. Please, Alexandrovska. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u28	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, surely the Communist faction will support this appeal and think that by discussing the content of this reference, we might, and we might, or should we consider, simply the position of the Communist faction as to what is, in practice, the process of usurping power in Ukraine. The first step is to try to destroy the Supreme Council, which advocates and upholds the principles of democracy and parliamentary democracy in Ukraine. The second step is the practical replacement of the leadership of the law enforcement agencies, and you and I know that this is the government's department of public protection, this is an effort and an attempt that tried to replace the Attorney General yesterday. These are the same attempts to prevent the work of the Constitutional Court from being properly organized. That is to say, all of this is done for the sole purpose that law enforcement authorities must carry out criminal orders and thus complete the process of usurpation of power. But this failed, and today the President's secretariat and the President themselves began the third stage of preparing for usurpation, the completion of the usurpation of power, this is preparations for the introduction of an extraordinary state in Ukraine. And it's all about how to develop a state of emergency. To this end, the actions that took place yesterday at the initiative of the President and his team are trying to hide from the citizens of Ukraine the clearly planned scenario of this usurpation of power. By doing so, the torturer brother tries to extend the term of his orange, temporary period. And all of this is happening in our eyes. The adventurers of politicians with authority are doing everything today to destroy the principles of statehood and, through the usurpation of power, to finally destroy the path that the state as a whole has become, the path of democracy and, in particular, parliamentary democracy. I think we should take the budget seriously today. And today we have the head of the budget room. I believe that the head of the Court of Auditors should be asked to check urgently the use of the budget allocated for the maintenance of the State Department of Security. And so let's figure out why there are only 36 officials under the laws, and now virtually everyone under the President's decree is being protected by those who rob and steal the state of Ukraine. So a faction of Communists in general, supporting this statement, proposes to vote for it. But we're paying attention to our radio audiences that the problem is very and very serious, and we need to be real today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u29	To fight against the usurpation of power. So said Peter Mikolaiovich, I finished simply because the microphone was not turned on at this point. Please, Infantry from the Party of Regions, what will they say?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u30	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. I'm making a proposal on the second point of our decision to correct something. The thing is, the strong fascination of state security personnel is nonsensence. I have known this service since 1985, and I have been unable to do so. It should be written: The head of the Service Department and other persons who are not identified as such. There is no need to cast a shadow on all the decent people of this service. And if this turns out to be the experience of this service, then the law on this service needs to be changed, it needs to be assigned to all the leaders of the higher rank of the republic, and there is also a special position. Because we can't be in the hall and be afraid of being captured. So I'd take out the state guards, and I'd put someone who's captured and with him young people whose personality isn't installed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u31	Sergey Redfoot of the Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u32	Thank you. The Red Army, the faction of the Socialist Party, the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan. I'm sorry to say that the situation is very familiar and familiar when people die because of the political mistakes of politicians 17 years ago, Afghanistan's war ended, and somehow some too democratic forces believe that we are going there ourselves. I also call on the Ukrainian Army militia to remember that maybe those mistakes that will be said, well, we've washed up, sorry, could lead to that blood, to those cripples, to those tears of mothers that we Afghan veterans, unfortunately, we know very well. The faction of the Socialist Party supports this appeal, but I'm talking to politicians again, be smart, be prudent when you make such decisions about the use of military people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u33	Thank you. This is what General Redfoot said, and I think his authority gives him the right to speak that way. And his life experience, and I'd say life's sweat. So let's take this into account because he's not making any changes, so I'm not writing anything down, but is that why you want to do it? Please, Yuri Baldirev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Unfortunately, our colleague Pehota is trying to expose the situation. Yesterday, one of the detainees who had noon-chaki in his diplomat was a cold weapon used by fighters in the eastern hemispheres, a special raid, a leaflet of the people's self-defence, a notebook with a plan for the seizure of the Attorney-General's Office, and had a certificate in the same case from a civil protection officer. The name of the citizen Volocaj. He has been detained, a criminal case has been instituted, and unfortunately, we must write the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u35	I think you're right, just to write the truth where it's supposed to be. In his determination to write about the citizen of Volocja, it is obviously too much of an honor to him and to those who sent him here. So I'm responding in this case to the proposal that was made here by the Party of Regions from the faction of the regions. I think that the formula in the second paragraph is “to recommend to the Attorney-General to make legal decisions, to give a legal assessment to the employees” because these examples have already been cited here, and they will find out who gave the order, because this is not our job, it's not our job to give orders, it's against the law, it's against the law, it's against the law, it's against the law, it's against the law, it's against the law, it's against the law. They will draw the right conclusions. I'd like us to consider that. And that's why, given these observations -- except for the replica, I'm just obliged to talk about it, probably, because the orange events of the two-year-old age are both positive, and where are the negatives. Yes, there is no relation to the positive tormenting brothers mentioned. They were the antipodium of those events, and that is to say, for we remember many details about the elections in Mukachev and not only do we remember them. And in general, I'd like to vote then, and I'd like to make a decision like this reference to the law, and you have the registration number, and I've put it to 3572. I'm betting on the vote as a whole. [[11:23:47]] For 257 Decision taken. Perhaps to complete this part of our work, we will move on to other issues. I would like to emphasize once again who does not speak, Yuri Alexiyovich and Yuri Romanovich, please. Whoever doesn't speak, the Supreme Council is functioning in accordance with the Constitution, has not violated a single piece of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, and in such a way, whether or not it is a guarantee of compliance with legislation, and it will be managed on a permanent basis. And it's not the cause of the tightening of the political community. This is what I would like to emphasize to everyone to draw their own conclusions on this point. Now let's move on to other issues. Report on the implementation of Ukraine's 2006 State Budget Act. Presents this report to the First Deputy Minister of Finance of the Bastards, Vadim Anatoliyovich, to prepare for the Head of the Committee of MacKeenka, the report is in your hands.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u36	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, Ukrainian citizens. To implement article 61 of the Budget Code, the government has prepared a report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2006. The implementation of the 2006 budget has already been reported on a number of occasions, so I will briefly stop at the key points. I want to start by reminding you of the legacy that we got from the previous government. By mid - 2006, economic growth had slowed down, and it was far from budgeted. During the first half of 2006, the damage caused by operators increased by one and a half times compared to the same period in 2005. Investment activity declined. The imbalance in export-import policy and the deterioration of relations with the main external trade partners have led to a decrease in export dynamics. The macroeconomic situation was affected by an increase in the cost of imported gas, a deterioration in the price situation in the oil and oil markets. Immediately after the election, on March 30, the previous government decided to increase the cost of electricity and gas. Hence, neither the population nor the local budgets were provided with the necessary compensators. There was uncertainty about prices for imported natural gas for the second half of 2006 and for 2007. The 2006 budget became a hostage to the unwarranted, unwarranted and unwarranted populist steps of the predecessors. As you can see on the slide, the government execution was practically empty. If at the beginning of 2006 there were 12.6 billion dollars in a single treasury account, the general budget, the amount fell to 1.4 billion dollars by 3 August 2006. The budget funding was done manually, and the main expenditures were planned for the third to fourth quarters. The income plan was not implemented on the tax line. The budgeted social expenditure was not provided with adequate income. Thus, in more than 60 budget programmes, social spending was largely not spent at all. In the seven months of 2006, the capital expenditure was funded only 26.6 percent of the plan for the year. The current deficit has increased. The external and internal borrowings planned were not carried out. Due to the shortcomings in public procurement procedures, the 2005 budget was broken down and tenders were held back. By mid - 2006, budget resources for payment had been virtually exhausted. Retired soldiers lacked nearly 700 million dollars. Wages and energy bills in local budgets were not enough to cover nearly 840 million dollars. Help for families with children, poor families, disabled children, disabled children, and temporary government assistance to children was limited to nearly 300 million dollars. The compensation for families with children and for the free feeding of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster was 34.5 million dollars. With a view to resolving the most acute budgetary problems in November 2006, government-led changes to the 2006 State Budget Act of Ukraine, which you, honourable national deputies, supported on November 14, 2006. To remedy the situation, the government immediately developed and implemented a program of crisis management in the economy and the social sphere. I can safely say that the economy and the budget have been driven out of the crisis. Economic growth has improved significantly, you see the dynamics of the main indicators on the slide, the GDP growth rate has increased from 5.5 per cent by 1 August to 7.1 per cent in 2006. The growth rate of industrial production against 2005 increased twice and made up 6.2 percent, accounting for 3.1 percent in 2005. On August 1, 2006, this figure was only 4.9 percent. The rise in citizens’ income has significantly exceeded the trend in gross domestic product production, and the average monthly wage has increased by 29 percent, and the real wage has increased by 18.3 percent. The government has fulfilled all its pension liabilities. The average pension increased by 17.5 percent during 2006, while the minimum pension was 4.6 percent. Starting in August, the financial results of the activities of the operators improved if, in 6 months 2006, the income generated by the domestic enterprises was 526 million dollars lower than the 2005 figure, and by the end of 2006, the income increased by 12.9 billion dollars compared to the same period last year. The government has taken steps to prevent the transfer of profits to the shadow economy. The budget year is over with positive results. The government budget's revenue in 2006 amounted to 133.5 billion dollars, 27 percent more than in 2005. If 99.3 percent of the government budget was not implemented in 2005, the 2006 implementation rate was 104.7 percent. The budget breakdown of the general fund of the budget is 104.2 percent. Over the plan, there were 4.1 billion dollars. In particular, I would like to note that these funds have become one of the sources that, already in the current year, are going to raise salaries, pensions and social benefits in line with the changes to the 2007 budget. As you can see from the slide, the monthly revenue flow of the general fund in the government budget in the second half of 2006 was much higher than in the middle of the year. While the planned arrival rates in November were increased by half, by one and a half billion dollars. Let me give you just one example. It is estimated that seven months in 2006 the business income plan was short of 1.8 billion dollars. The measures taken in August and December 2006 not only ensured that this tax was in the planned range but also compensated for the earlier deficit. A substantial improvement in the cash flow of the government budget in 2006 enabled the budget to be implemented at an appropriate level. Government budget expenditure in 2006 amounted to 137.1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general Or 21 percent more than in 2005. The general fund’s cash expenditures amounted to 106.2 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. and increased by 13.3 billion compared to 2005. This appropriation is Because of the budget problems I was talking about at the beginning of the report, funding was not sufficient during the first half of the year. In addition, the funds allocated from the budget were not fully managed by the principals. As a result of low budgetary discipline and inadequate planning, as of August 1, 2006, 2 billion people were killed. 781 million This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. the allocated funds remained unused. In the second half of the year, the situation was improved. In August 2006, the government was, it was decided on the economy of budget resources and their rational use. The cost was directed towards the payment of utilities and energy supplies in connection with the increase in tariffs and other priority measures. In summary, budget savings are ensured through the transition from the allocation system to the repayment of the liabilities of budget administrators, government fees, and part of the contingency fund. The government has fulfilled all social obligations. Full funding is provided for wage increases in the budget area, for families with children, for low - income families, for disabled persons from childhood, for children with disabilities, and for temporary government assistance to children, and for other social programs. In 2006, social expenditure exceeded 38.2 percent in 2005. During the second half of the year, more than 40 budget programs were started, with no money spent in the first seven months. In particular, funds have been allocated for such socially important expenses as measures to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings and centralized measures of transplantation of organs and tissues. In August and December.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u37	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u38	In August-December 2006, expenditure was significantly increased in the majority of directions. You can see this magnification on the slide that's being shown. In the second half of the year, the financing of capital expenditure was started to solve socio-economic problems. Regional accounts have been activated to pay off the differences in municipal tariffs. The government budget has spent 2.1 times more than the first 7 months on capital expenditures in the last five months. Overall, the 2006 capital expenditure increased by 41 percent. Public support for the development of the region’s infrastructure has been given considerable attention, including through the development of pipelines, gasification of public areas, development of road agriculture, construction and development of metropolises, and the acquisition of wagons for utility transport. Local budgets received 2.8 billion dollars more than the annual calculation of Minfin. Real security measures have been put in place in 2007 to increase the protection of the population in conditions of higher cost of residential services. Thus, realistic budgetary policies in the second half of 2006 and 2007 allowed for a smoother tariff shock for Ukrainian citizens. As a percentage of the planned expenditure, we increased the cost of treasury accounts from 1.4 billion dollars to 10.6 dollars on 3 August 2006 to 1 January 2007. During the seven months, the Law on Budgets was not implemented in the area of external and domestic borrowing. In record terms, this work was completed. In addition, effective public debt operations have been carried out to replace expensive borrowings on a cheap basis. Thanks to the re-adjustment of the income and economic expenditure plan, the actual deficit is estimated to be much lower than anticipated when the budget was approved. By the end of 2006, the direct debt-to-GDP ratio was 12.3 percent and the guaranteed share was only 15 percent. This indicator has been improved, both by the growth of the country’s economy and by the implementation of a balanced debt policy. Ladies and gentlemen, 2006 has ended with positive results in the economy and the budget. A good start was made for the 2007 budget. Additional budgeting and macroeconomic stability enabled decision-making in March to be made on a substantial increase in social expenditure, such as increased pensions, wages and higher social standards. In early May, Parliament also amended the Budget Act 2007 to further increase the salaries of budget workers and increase the pension. Unfortunately, political battalions have slowed down the signing of this law by the President of Ukraine. But I'm sure that this situation will be settled soon. Our government's main economic policies will continue to combine support for macroeconomic stability, economic growth and social responsibility. Dear National Deputies, taking into account the measures taken to implement the 2006 budget figures, please approve the 2006 State Budget Implementation Report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u39	The question to Vadim Anatoliovich is with the deputies? Please sign up. I remind you once again, no more minutes to ask, no more minutes to answer. It's going to be 10 minutes in total. Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u40	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. My dear reporter, I believe that the report needs to be approved and I confirm that, indeed, in 2006, a good foundation for the 2007 budget was laid, where, by increasing the cost of economic development, we have accumulated serious amounts today where we can increase the costs for our citizens. Once again, however, there is a constitutional guarantor who has sworn to serve the people of Ukraine to work in the name of the people of Ukraine. And today, when he didn't sign the law, he broke his oath by doing so, because these expenses that we've set up are aimed at improving the people's standard of living. Don't you think it's time for the President's impeachment to begin today because of his economic approaches? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u41	I ask Vadim Anatoliyovich not to answer this question for your permission, because it is not for the civil servant and his office to judge the President, but for 111 articles of the Constitution. Please, Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u42	Thank you. Dear Vadim Anatolyovich! The fact that a report on the implementation of the State Budget Act last year needs to be approved, there is no doubt that the faction will support it. Your report confirmed once again that if it had not been created by the parliamentary elections of last year's anti-crisis coalition and its established government, Ukraine and the economy in particular of the state were outside survival, it had been brought to collapse. You have managed to change the situation for the better, and we thank you for that. But today, Vadim Anatoliyovich, our citizens are more interested in how the government will come out in this situation, when the President has not signed the Law on Change in the State Budget in Part of Retirement and Indemnity.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. You know, the government has decided on some promotions, and they've been active since May 1st. And what's budgeted for by one tariff grid, by another increase for our citizens, I think that the political crisis -- which today, by the way, was discussed here in the hall, will soon be unlocked, and all those laws, the important laws that Parliament has voted for recently, will take their legal action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u44	He's a executioner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u45	Dear Vadim Anatoliyovich, I understand that your high professional activity, the activity of the entire Ministry of Finance in stabilizing the financial situation in Ukraine, after eliminating those floods and those disruptions, and the budget deficit that you had to become after the established government, has greatly accelerated the hysteria and such opposition, because it's very distasteful when we're going to be able not only to decommission the mucks and collapses, but also to increase the quarterly pensions, wages, the subsistence minimum. So I have a question: can you please tell me, are there any facts that we had to meet on the Budget Committee last year when the deputy fuel minister came and asked 50 million to eliminate the hidden salary in 2005? Are miners today made sure that they never have a debt on wages?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u46	Thank you, Gregory Mikolaiovich, for asking. We work together with you and the Budget Committee on these issues all the time. And you know that the main task for us is to make sure that the decisions we make are clearly provided by the source and that they are not populist in nature, but balanced, adjusted in time and supported by resources. In the coal industry. And remember that the latest changes to the budget, which are unfortunately not signed by the President today, envision an increase in the costs that should be spent on financing the coal industry. In addition, the Ministry of Finance has been working with the Ministry of Coal Industry, the Committee on Budgets, to ensure that there is no pay-per-view debt for miners. She did.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u47	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u48	Dear Vadim Anatoliyovich, in 2005, budget funding, savings programs were broken down because they allocated money -- they weren't implemented at the end of the year; the gasification programme for the population, the relocation program from the crash houses, and the construction of new ones. In my Zaporozhye, it was broken through a line of bazookas and a capricious officer of one financing of the bridge crossings through Dnipro, it was simply stopped -- and there was huge damage because there was no cost conservation. Please tell me, do you now have, as the first Deputy Minister of Finance of Ukraine, a reason to say that these social programs, because social programs, not only are they primarily the financing of wages and pensions, but they are the social programs that depend on the viability of our society. Will they be fully funded? Bridge crossings in Zaporozhye, gasification, liquidation of emergency homes, and recovery of funds for lost savings.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u49	Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. In my presentation, I emphasized that only a quarter of the capital investment was funded in the last seven months. The rest of it, and we went into the fall-winter period, we had to make up for it in these five months, we managed to do it. This year we started funding capital expenditure as of January of this year. And we've been holding for four months, we've got full expenses in the board of directors for a hundred percent. And in the future, this will be done, everything planned in the 2007 budget, we have to do, and we hope, and the cities of Zaporozhye, including all the subsidies that we have foreseen in the local budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u50	Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u51	. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u52	Dried? Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u53	Thank you. Vadim Anatoliyovich, there was already a question about a single tariff network. Please tell me, does the Ministry of Finance have a clear programme of development and financing for all of these aspects, which are linked to the single tariff network, i.e., differentiation in wages, pay differentials in budgetary institutions, including the question of the continuation of the pension reform? Because you see, despite all these political strains, there's been a completely, completely pension reform, not in 2005, not in 2006. And once again, we have the complaints that we had in 2002 about the balance in the pension system and the balance in the budget. Whether we have enough reserve, financial resources to continue the policy of differentiation in pension insurance and the financing of budgetary institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u54	Thank you. I mentioned that last year we had to start working almost on wheels. And the key to that is balanced, well-founded policies, well-founded steps. Opponents kept pushing us into the social pay, wages, pensions. Our main position is not to make unreasonable, unbalanced decisions. We're after the first quarter, after the analysis of the calculations that have begun in our economy, whether the economy will survive all these necessary revenue to the budget, and whether these revenues will be sufficient to the budget for the social programs that you've been talking about. When we did all these calculations, we just went out to the hall and said that, yes, this decision could be made, it would be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u55	Vadim Anatoliyovich, I've asked a question that I'm not concerned about because I'm interested in some of the political considerations there, but because once in a letter, there's a subject in the speeches of the deputies. They privatized the “Criminal”. Twenty with billions of dollars, they had profits. The Court of Auditors reports that they have been pardoned. And we hear that governments have been working effectively, the budget has been implemented and so on. Yeah, sorry, did they use these funds that weren't planned for the budget, which means there was a big budget failure or something? As you can understand, explain to people what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u56	This is probably the main disaster and error that we made in the second half of 2005 and in the first half of 2006. Nearly 12 out of billions of dollars were spent in one period and another, on the populace before the Ukrainian nard. Why it's bad and what's the disadvantage, is that when we're making some kind of social pay, some social security, or declaring some kind of wage and pension size, we have to have a permanent source to finance it. We're a temporary source that we've got from "Crucials" instead of putting it into infrastructure development, which would allow us to enter those investments and ensure a normal standard of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u57	I'd like to make a brief statement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u58	We're sorry if we've eaten and washed the wrong place. So I'm saying that's the worst step in 2005-2006 at the beginning of the sixth year.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u59	In other words, these costs in the budget, as the income part was not foreseen. So it's also in the spending area. And since they're used in the spending area, that means that the budget wasn't executed, it was completely down. And all of the success stories on this point should be evaluated in this way, in fact, we have to be responsible for how the previous government dealt with the budget, which was planned and actually executed in the tax section only on the basis of spending the money on the basis of the implementation of the “Crucials”. Here you can find another legal definition, but it's already a question, obviously, of law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u60	Yes. And now the Court of Auditors is doing a check, and I think you're going to be given the same conclusions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u61	Mr. McKeinko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, head of the Committee of Profiles, Committee on Budgetary Policy
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u62	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Honorable National Deputies and Members of the Government! According to article 85, paragraph 4, of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 62, part 5, of the Budget Code, the Supreme Council is to consider the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006 and decide on it. This is the budget that was formed by the government of Yulia Volodymyrovna Timoshenko, executed by the government of Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov and corrected by the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. You're probably the respectable national MPs, you know, like in that fairy tale that always has three babysitters, the baby's hungry. And the results of the six-year implementation of the 2006 budget created by the coalition government in August of that year had to be urgently corrected. At the time, real figures were significantly lagging behind in the Budget Act, both at the rate of GDP growth and at the rate of growth in industrial production. The only thing that was growing was the damage to businesses that were associated with many factors, and above all, with the increase in gas prices and the lack of State support to export domestic products. These are the realities that some today want to forget, and some do not want to remember. This is a reality that clearly and openly shows the ability of one another to destroy and perseverance and professionalism of others to find the right solution in conditions of economic chaos and political instability. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Budget Issues at its meeting, with the participation of the representatives of the Ukrainian Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance, discussed the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act for Ukraine for 2006. During the consideration, the committee drew attention to the following. Unlike 2005 in 2006, it was possible to ensure the implementation of basic macroeconomic indicators for economic and social development, which were included in the 2006 government budget. Thus, the real increase in gross domestic product in 2006 was 7.1 percent. In the forecast of 7 percent, the nominal volume was 535 billion 900 million at 512. 500 million dollars. Average consumer price index 109.1 percent at a forecast of 111.4. It should be noted that early last year there was a low rate of economic growth and there was a corresponding threat of budget failure. But less than six months of hard work by Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic, the new government has been able to restore macroeconomic stability and increase economic growth. This contributed to the implementation of the budget’s income plans last year. Thus, the general fund’s income for 2006 amounted to 101 billion dollars, or 104 percent of the annual income. the deposit. In general, the plan has reached 4.1 billion dollars, with an increase of 20 percent compared to 2005. This state of execution is largely due to overstatement of the planned value-added tax rates of over 5.8 billion dollars. In 2006, the added value of 15 billion dollars was reimbursed from the tax budget, which is 13 percent more than the amount of compensation compared to 2005. At the same time, debt with an extended repayment period decreased by more than a third to 437 million dollars. The 2006 National Budget Special Fund plan, approved by the Act, was 106 per cent, and the recovery amounted to almost 2 billion dollars, mainly on the basis of the own revenues of 145 per cent of the budget institutions. At the same time, individual taxes and congregations have not reached the full budget, which needs to be improved in order to improve the budget’s planned approach with a view to making it more realistic. In this context, it is also relevant to improve the administration of taxes and congregations, and to strengthen financial discipline, which should be ensured by the adoption of the new Tax Code. The cost of privatizing government property was 559 million dollars, which is only 26 percent to the approved rate per year. We don't have 1.6 billion dollars. Taking into account what has been noted, with a view to avoiding a balanced state budget and in line with article 14 of the Ukrainian State Budget 2006 Act, the government has replaced the funds with an appropriate increase in government borrowing. It should be noted that during the first seven months of last year, the remaining funds in the treasury accounts remaining after the privatisation of the “Criminals” were almost fully used to finance the general fund deficit. However, by the end of the year, the new government of Yanuković had managed to raise funds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u63	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u64	I beg you, five minutes, that's too little. We were serving for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u65	Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u66	It's a deal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u67	Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u68	I'm asking for two more minutes. Short on local budgets. In 2006, the annual estimates of income are carried out by the consolidated budget of all administrative territorial units. In general, the local budgets accounted for nearly 40 billion dollars of income without inter-budget transfers, 21 percent or seven billion dollars more than the estimated amount of Minfin. Compared with 2005, local budgets grew by nearly ten billion dollars, or 32 percent more. The Cabinet of Ministers, together with the report, submitted to the Supreme Council a draft decision by the Supreme Council on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine’s 2006 State Budget, No. 3536, which is proposed to approve the report. Taking into account the above, the Committee on Budgetary Questions recommends that the Supreme Council adopt a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Registration No. 3536 as a whole, thereby endorsing the work of the Government to ensure the implementation of the Law on State Budget for 2006. And the last. Governmental wisdom has always distinguished the ability to draw conclusions. The events of 2005, 2006 should also be instructive for Ukrainian nationals. Because the history of Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, it's not table games, it's first of all human destiny, the fate of families, children, the elderly, for the sake of the economic security of our nation. We need to keep this in mind and draw conclusions, not to experiment on the country, on its people who live and work in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u69	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that yesterday we said goodbye, more faithfully, that our colleague, a member of the Party of the Regions, Vasil Timothyovich Biba, had gone out of his life. At 12 o'clock, from 12 o'clock in the Cabinet Club, there's a saying goodbye to the deputy. I'm asking you to take this opportunity to go to the Cabinet Club now, and at 12:30 we're going to continue the meetings, we're going to finish this question, at least, and maybe we'll consider another question. Please. One or two. Break until 12:30 is announced. Please take part in this sad ceremony.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u70	The sitting is continuing. There's a part of the MPs being delayed, they're coming up yet, and in the meantime, we're going to continue to consider the implementation report for the 2006 state budget. And the word is given by the Head of the Chamber of Accounts of Ukraine Valentin Konstantinovich Simonenko. Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u71	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, members of the Government! In preparation for today's plenary session, I reviewed the budget material again last year. Working with the document brought to my mind the uniqueness, unique features of the 2006 budget. One Government member started drafting the State Budget Act, two of which were implemented, resulting in the absence of any express economic and financial policy in the country's main financial document. At first glance, it seemed logical to assess the contribution of each Government to the implementation of the budget. But the responsibility of the Court of Auditors, in accordance with existing legislation, is a comprehensive assessment of the implementation of the State budget as the main financial document of the country. That is why, given this situation last year, we have sent you an opinion on the implementation of the State budget for the first quarter, the first half and nine months. In order to compare the implementation of the State budget. In May of this year, the College of the Court of Auditors reviewed the Government's report on the implementation of the State Budget Act 2006 and approved the relevant opinions that were sent to you. And I see you've been studying it and studying it. Last year's main achievement was to overcome the decline in the economy and gradually increase the growth rate that was set in the fourth quarter. Real GDP growth reached 7.1 per cent and slightly exceeded the projected and almost threefold the 2005 figure. The economy has acquired the ability not to respond to political turmoil, but remains extremely dependent on the environment and environment of external markets. At the same time, the import priorities created in 2005 led to an increase in imports exceeding export growth. As a result, for the first time in seven years, the country has a negative foreign trade balance of about $3 billion. The expert opinion of the Court of Auditors on the implementation of the 2006 State budget tells you of many shortcomings and shortcomings. I will focus on areas of budgetary policy that require improvements in both current and future years. First. The public forecasting system needs to be improved. From year to year, the deviation of individual macro-indicators from projections leads to a lack of planned income. No exception was made in 2006. Not a lot less than three and a half billion griffen. Only a miscalculation of revenue has led to a shortage of more than 2 billion. Lack of income from projected sources has led to increased fiscal pressure in other areas, which has had a negative impact on economic development. The level of reallocation of GDP through the consolidated budget in 2006 was almost 32 per cent. And that's the maximum value for the last 3-4 years. As a result, the correct rate of implementation of the income part of the budget takes into account more than 6 billion bracelets from personal payments, as well as nearly 7 billion unpaid VAT. Based on these factors, the real income of the consolidated budget increased by 9.2 per cent and exceeded 2.1 per cent of the real GDP. The budgetary role of VAT was restored last year. However, the legal field of this tax leaves us with a desire for the best. We have detailed this issue in the expert opinion of the Court of Auditors. Let me just say that “tax innovators” I have taken this notion into quotes, which by excluding the definition of “budget debt” are trying to solve the problem of VAT recovery in this way. I think they're deeply mistaken. There is no de jure term, and the de facto debt of the State is large – 7 billion bracelets. Last year, we also saw a negative trend in the role of State-wide taxes and taxes in the special fund, which undermines the main objective of its establishment: the inclusion in the public budget of various non-budgetary funds from its own budget. This was one of the mediocre beginnings of this special fund, said to be ideological. Part of today, however, public taxes and taxes exceeded 58 per cent of the income of the special fund. There is a situation where almost every draft law is lobbying budgetary issues through the fund. Unless this trend is halted, the State budget will soon be made up of only one special fund. In respect of expenses, a social decision must be paid. The social dimension should be addressed. The financing of wages and protected articles was fully secured. Traditionally, however, there is a need to improve the quality of budgeting. The use of funds is delayed from year to year, the planned end-of-year appointments are postponed, their distribution and redistribution are delayed. I'll just give you one number. Almost 20 per cent of the APC support programme was allocated to December. What is the effectiveness of the use of funds in this case. Auditing confirms the need to significantly reduce the costs of managing them at least to a reasonable limit. Hence, respectable colleagues and large amounts of non-productive budget expenditure under this heading. At the same time, virtually all audits carried out by the Court of Auditors reveal violations of budgetary legislation inadvertent and ineffective use of budgetary resources, distortion of reporting by the main budget managers. Unfortunately, however, the prevailing part of these violations is due, not to ill-intention, but to the low level of knowledge and qualifications of economic and financial managers at all levels. On this issue, the uninterrupted end of work, both for the Ministry of Finance and the State Treasury and a number of other ministries. I think there is a direct impact on the situation where 20,000 civil servants were dismissed for unclear reasons at the same time. That is, our staff reserve has practically been cut off. A few years ago, I had drawn the attention of distinguished people's deputies to the unethicality of certain sources of expenditure for individual chief budget managers, particularly the force. Please tell us for which money the Security Service has spent on receiving donations, gifts and funds for individual assignments of little or no amount of 61 million dollars. I won't talk about Customs anymore, the DA's office, it's been said to be 25 million, there's 20 million. The Government's long policy has been implemented without a legal framework, and this process has been going on for no longer than 12 years. The borrowing was carried out without an approved programme and as a result, the volume and structure of the programme were not in line with the budget law. By the way, these actions were not consistent with the Supreme Council, but were presented as a fact. In debt policy, the time has come to define a corporate debt that is not guaranteed by the State, and this debt has already increased to three quarters of the gross external debt. Uncontrolled increases in the foreign exchange liabilities of the economy in the non-permanent currency market pose a risk of repayment. And one more thing. It would appear that there is a formal problem of public debt. In due time, you know that the generous hand of the State-depositors gave out all possible amounts, loans, guarantees and other preferences. All attempts by the Ministry of Finance and Tax Administration to recover outstanding debts to the State have virtually zero effects. The main reason is the full unpredictability of debt recovery. So you have to count and write this down to clear up the problem. And the last. Based on budget implementation practices in 2006, despite no shocks, the main condition for success.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u72	Keep going, keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u73	Despite all the shocks, maintaining stable economic growth, improving the quality of budgeting, and not only at the level of the Government and the Ministry of Finance, but also at the levels and beneficiaries of the budget, is a prerequisite for our further development of the country's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u74	Thank you for such frankness, I would say, a work done and an open analysis, because this is rarely spoken of in Parliament's rostrum, and in public consciousness there is little information about the essence of what happens to the budget. So thank you for that. And if you have any questions about the head of the Accounting Chamber, please sign in. Yes, please, Suhi Jaroslav Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u75	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Valentin Konstantinovich, such as, with permission to say, the free know-how government of Timoshenko, such as the reprivatisation of political associates and its sponsors of Maidan, has caused substantial damage to the investment attractiveness of the Ukrainian economy -- that is clear because the consequences of this will be felt with you, our economy, for a long time. In particular, the reselling of “Criminals” is now, as you know, causing significant damage to the construction industry because the price of complex metal, coal, ecology and so on has increased. But, Valentin Kostinovich, I have a question that concerns people, which is what Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz has been talking about today. Where did Timoshenko and Yehanurov share those tens of billions of dollars? You know that one of the reasons why the Supreme Council's powers were suspended is that. to stop the work of our temporary investigative commission, which was trying to figure out where this hop company divided billions of dollars from Chrystals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u76	Well, first of all, I'd say so. To be clear, they didn't even go through, and, well, you know, intelligently, they ate up government money. And if I say by the numbers, I might be wrong, but the figures are: 24.2 billion bracelets have been received, transferred to a single treasury account. In 2005, 4.6 billion of these returned to owners — once; 3.3 — our Pension Fund was paid; 6.1 billion went to finance budget deficits, i.e. basic rations. There are 10 million remaining, 10 billion for the following year, for 2006, which was spent in the first quarter of 2006. Hence the efficiency of spending this money. But.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u77	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u78	No proposal has ever been made for the purpose of channelling these funds. What's the big deal? We are about to adopt the 2008 budget, and we cannot record the money from privatizing one line to finance the budget. They have to be recorded as a target to be placed under this money for entirely specific investment projects.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u79	By the way, the law on privatization, which was adopted here, prohibited the use of funds from privatizing to service the government budget deficit. In other words, it's a gross violation of Ukrainian legislation, and the Criminal Code based on it's called crime. And we have to evaluate this use of funds. Rybuk, please, Sergey Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u80	Thank you. Ribuk, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. I'm raising my hand, Valentin Costinovich. Dear Valentino Costinovich, I've been torn apart by the numbers you said about the external trade balance, they say. In fact, I remember well the figure when the previous government of Yanukovic left a positive external trade surplus of only $3.2 billion to its successors. And then I took minus a billion two hundred. Today, as you can see from the report, from your co-report, this world situation has been levelled, but not just 3.2 billion, but the point is that there's a very large drop in prices for meat, according to dairy. You've done some math on the bill, and what's the loss of agriculture? Because today, if agriculture suffers so much, it lost the money that was to be invested today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u81	Of course, the issue of trade balance, as one of the main macroeconomic indicators of the country, has an impact on the entire economic system, but we have opened, we have opened, practically, all of our markets, which have hit this openness painfully, especially in the agricultural market. If we consider that if we return to the consumption system, we have these figures, we have only become 6 per cent less agricultural production in 2005 than in 2004. This trend continued in 2006. So this is where we have to fundamentally change this policy. If we want to implement the slogan “Principal priority for domestic producers”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u82	Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u83	Dear Valentin Konstantinovich. I have a two-part question. The first part of the question is as follows. We know the tragedy that was in Alchevsk. We know how the press reacted; there was a reaction in this room as to how Alcevski's funds were used and how. Do you not think it is necessary that the time has finally come to tell the truth, what happened in Alchevsk, including the confirmation of financial documents and financial statements? That's the first part of the question. And the second part of the question. The Court of Auditors, and I would very much support its actions today, which we have also discussed in the Committee on Budgets, those actions that show that you are taking a very clear course towards the passporting of all budget expenditures, you are seriously involved in this matter. So here's the question, it's part of the problem. The question is as follows. Tell me, the Supreme Council has adopted changes to the budget. These changes relate to 17 million people in Ukraine, 17 million people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u84	Please finish your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u85	The 17 million inhabitants of Ukraine are concerned with some of the technological financial issues. Tell me, as President of the Court of Auditors, how do you assess the non-signature, the de facto blocking of changes to the Budget Act, and how do you recommend today to the Hall and the Supreme Council in this situation? Maybe the Head of the Supreme Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u86	On the first part of the question. This is where Vadim Anatoljevic spoke of those increases in transfers to local investment councils. There were up to one and a half billion bracelets, almost three times in 2006. It's on the one side. On the other hand, the issue is that investment projects financed from the State budget do not clearly define the objectives and objectives. It was Alcevski's, it was in a number of other cities. Today it is the course for the forgotten method of programme planning, to resuscitate and that is the right thing to do, in my view, the current composition of the Ministry of Finance is going to go perfectly with the Ministry of Economics and what we will get from the impact on a project.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u87	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u88	With regard to the second part of the question, it is certain that today, from the non-signatories to the draft budget, there are not 17 million, so they say, so take 10-12 million of our citizens. What I can't advise you to do in this regard, make sure it's signed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u89	Please, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u90	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Please tell me that I support your position, your position, your speech, and you have a lot of experience, a lot of experience in carrying out control-analytical, expert actions, but I have a little request. Nevertheless, what I represent about the Ternopil area is a lot of the issues that I'm talking about, I can't, I can't, I can't find out about the use of the budget that comes into the area. One of them is the call for medical equipment at the Ternopil medical facilities. I directed this call to the Ministry of Health and Health in the area, and the Ministry of Health responded that the area had been purchased in the last year with 4.6 million medical equipment. From the area came the answer that it was purchased at 2.6. Where there were two more million, I was unable to find out, asking for your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u91	We dealt with this issue last year, it is said, in a special commission at the Court of Auditors. And we can tell you that the Public Procurement Act requires a fundamental change. It's a problem, if you ask me. 120 billion bracelets that go through this law require a little bit of sieve to be sifted, because there's a lot left of it for all those who do it. As for your particular question, please, we will always help and help. And we get every month, if we say, to 5,000 of these kinds of treatments that we are in addition to the audits that we are doing, the government that we are planning to do, we are helping some areas to sort things out. Please turn around, we'll respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u92	Thank you, Valentin Alexanderovich, sit down, please. If you would like to share in the discussion, write it down. Now it's individual from the MPs. Please. Alexandrovska, I ask the faction of the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u93	Dear colleagues! The report of the Government on the implementation of the 2007 State budget shows the success of the Government and the correct strategy that has been developed, including by the anti-crisis coalition here. What shows in favor of such a claim? As we have heard from the report, the report said that the income of the State budget fund increased by 4 billion. You and I both know that tax discipline has been increased. Tax evasion was 17 per cent lower than in the same period in 2005. The Government is more responsible for its obligations. The value added tax rate increased by 13 per cent compared to 2005. More funds are allocated to the salaries of budget workers and capital investments. However, there are some negative points that cannot be avoided. They should include: a plan to receive funds from customs duties on exports and imports has not been implemented. What's the reason? I believe that the complex domestic political situation and the situation caused by the President's actions may have an impact on business activity and that is why the quantity of goods that cross our border is not as intense as it could be. And of course, there is a question with a plan of implementation for customs fees. The Gosbudget Special Fund income plan for the sale of non-agricultural land has not been implemented. Thus, either planning errors have been made or the budget has not been properly implemented in this part. However, an income plan for the special budget fund from budgetary organizations, i.e. their economic activities, has been overrun by almost 3 billion dollars. What does that mean? Budget organizations, such as educational and health institutions, provide additional paid services to the population. This means that in the State budget we do not fully finance the activities of these institutions and organizations and they are forced to provide paid services to the population, so our population has paid for these additional, more than 3 billion grivins, including for these services. I think this suggests that we need to channel more resources to health and education. We and the Government must also bear in mind the commitments made to the category of citizens whose children are children of war. They are still waiting for full implementation of the provisions of the relevant law, waiting for the full amount of pensions to be received, no matter how much they receive. Well, and I would like to say, budget subsidies are a significant and very important discipline in directing these funds to regions and in the discipline of using these funds. The Communist faction therefore supports the proposals of the budget committee to approve the report and to support the order that it has adopted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u94	Thank you. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! When the government reported on the implementation of the 2006 budget, we had the opportunity to illustrate on the monitors, as in the first half of last year, that was a rapid, catastrophic fall in the share of gross domestic product, and when a coalition was formed, a coalition was formed, the government of Yanukovich actually broke out, it could be said, in a human way, a simple tragedy with a budget failure and levelled up the situation, and it continued this year and allowed the government to introduce, and with you to approve social programs, and successfully implement them, because there is something to be taken from, that is, those budget indicators last year, in the second half, if you specify, last year. And it's not self-sufficient, it's true with numbers and an illustration of how it's done. But I want to make all of us and the government one wish and even a warning about agriculture first. Because when the government’s first - half - year coalition synusoid fell steeply down last year and in December only financed agriculture, it means that the money invested in agriculture yields as much as a year later. So not just the drought that is now gaining, but the fact that both the previous government and Echanurova and Timoshenko, as the reports show, were not financing agriculture. I think we need to now, by endorsing and proposing to approve the budget, the budget report for last year, to think very well about how to use these results in order to have a good outcome, regardless of which cataclysm or political or weather. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u96	Thank you. There are no more willing to discuss this subject, because, I believe, both the report of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Court of Auditors and our committee has been exhaustive, which shows that very many shortcomings have been identified during the use or, more faithfully, the implementation of the 2006 budget, in 2005, sorry, in 2006, and the shortcomings that have been discussed here, they need not so much parliamentary analysis, because the analysis of law enforcement, by law enforcement agencies. But I hope that the Cabinet of Ministers, in carrying out its basic functions, will mean all of this and respond accordingly. You have a bill of approval, registration number. Now I'm gonna name it. 3536. I put him to the vote. [[13:11:30.]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u97	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! There's a proposal for us to put it into the agenda right now and look at the draft regulation number 3563, slightly changing the title of the regulation, unlike the one given to you. That is: A decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 21 June 2005 on the implementation of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 The authors of this legislative initiative, Pinchuk and Kovalova. Include it in the agenda and look at it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u98	I ask you to vote on the inclusion of this issue in the order of the day. [[13:12:35]] For 243. Questions in the agenda are included. Please, Pinchuk, please come to the rostrum. Please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u99	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies and invited! Economic developments in 2004 were extremely positive. Real GDP rates for 2004 reached a record 12.1 percent for Ukraine. The nominal GDP increased by 29.1 per cent compared to 2003 and was 345.1 billion. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. It is also important to note the extremely positive dynamics of external economic activity, export growth and import of goods and services. Real incomes grew by 19.6 percent in 2004. The wage is 23.8 percent, the profit of the business is 60.8 percent. Investment growth in the capital for 2004 was 28 percent; in 2005 it was only 1. 9. Economic development and the successful implementation of fiscal policy in 2004 ensured the full implementation of the State Budget core indicators. The 2004 government budget revenue was 70.3 billion dollars or 107.9 dollars, 27.7 percent more than in 2003. The total fund was 52 billion dollars, which is 101.1 percent of the annual plan, 23 percent more in 2003. The specificities of the 2004 income segment are the reduction of tax burden on the real economy as well as on citizens. The reduction in the income tax rate to 25 percent of the establishment of a single income tax rate of 13 percent. Cancelling the hotel congregation and the congregation to travel through the territory of the border areas by car. In this plan, the basic budgetary taxes are performed. Overcoming planned revenues to the State budget was observed at a tax on the profits of enterprises of 3.4 billion dollars or 27.1 percent. The Excise Congregation and the Import of Goods in Ukraine by 113.1 million dollars or 1.9 percent. The volume of income and value added tax in the total amount of their income in 2004 increased to 37.3 percent compared to 35.3 percent in 2003. In 2004, financial resources focused on addressing the socio-economic problems of the state -- improving the welfare of the population. Expenditures of the State Budget for 2004 amounted to 79.5 billion dollars or 110 per cent of the plan, including $61.6 billion in the total fund, representing 105.1 per cent of the plan compared to 2003. An additional part of the state budget overall increased by 41.6 percent, including the general fund by 40.6 percent. The amount of public social budget expenditure exceeded the level of 2003 by 46.2 percent. From the general government budget fund, these expenditure articles were funded in the amount of $24.2 billion. The available resources of the State budget focused on payroll, pension money, which had been increased to the minimum of living for disabled persons, scholarships, other social benefits related to protected budget articles. During 2004, there was also a policy to increase the investment component of the budget. Yes, compared to 2003, capital expenditure increased from 2.6 percent to 4.4 percent in GDP. Thus, the budget process in 2004 was characterized by both a socially oriented and an increased investment and innovative component budget. In 2004, there was a high level of activity in privatization processes. The government budget had reached 9.5 billion dollars or 102.9 dollars, a 4.4 - fold increase since the privatization of 2003. Despite an increase in the government budget deficit to a volume of 10.2 billion dollars in government direct debt at the end of 2004, it was within the limit set by article 16 of the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2004 and amounted to 67.7 billion dollars, which fell from 24.7 per cent by 1 January 2004 to 19.6 per cent by 1 January 2005. However, in spite of the full implementation of the basic provisions of the State Budget Act 2004, the Supreme Council of the Fourth Council did not approve the government’s report on its implementation, but it took note of it and gave a number of mandates to the Cabinet of Ministers to address some systemic issues in the budgetary sphere that had accumulated more than a year. During the development and implementation of budgets in the coming years, they were all thrown out and partially taken into account in the preparation of the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Code budget and some other legislative acts of Ukraine. As a result, I prepared a draft Supreme Council Regulation 3563 on the approval of the report of the Cabinet of Ministers on the implementation of the 2004 Act on the State Budget and the repeal of the Supreme Council Regulation of 21 June 2005 No 2677 on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2004. I propose to support and I would like to note from the Committee on Budget Issues, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets on 23 May, this draft regulation was considered and supported and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to accept it as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u100	Thank you, Andrey Pavlovich. Will there be questions? You don't? Have a seat, please. Who would like to share in the discussion? You don't? Then, Your Honor, with your permission, I'll put to the vote Order 3563 in the following wording: “On the amendment to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 21 June 2005 on the report on the implementation of the Ukrainian Act on Ukraine’s 2004 State Budget”. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: “To amend the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 21 June 2005 No. 2677-4 on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2004” by issuing the following edition: “Approval of the Report of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on the implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2004” with income of 70 000,377 million dollars, expenditure of 79,471,5 million dollars, total repayment of loans of 838 million dollars and amount of loans of 1920.7 million dollars with deficit of 10,216,5 million dollars. Please vote in favour of the ruling as a whole. [[13:21:36]] For 248 It's been decided. Let's thank the representatives of the Ministry of Finance for what they've done reports on the implementation of the state budgets for which they were responsible, and the main thing is that we want them to be even more in the mood, and we're in a better mood listening to their reports on the implementation of the State Budget Act, the recast of the State Budget Act 2007 and then the eighth, the ninth and the following years. [[in general, it is accepted]] So, let's go to the draft Law on Editorial Freedom of State and Public Press in the Dismantling Process, registration number 2738. Ukrainian National Deputy Mordovec Leonid Mihajlovich reports, to prepare for Oline Bondarenko. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u101	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! A bill on the editorial freedom of the public and municipal press in the process of dissuasion developed by the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, called upon to resolve an important social problem – by which the public and municipal print media operate, in whose interests they operate, and whose rights their founders have — government authorities and local self-government. [[Registration number 2738]] Ukrainian legislation today does not meet the standards and requirements of the Council of Europe, the world requirements that state and municipal press should be reformed. The drafting of press release legislation has been repeatedly celebrated by the Supreme Council as one of the priorities. By the way, the main objectives of socio-economic development for 2007 are the adoption of appropriate bills for the dissolution of the state and municipal press. However, because of the complexity of the problem of dissipating the press in time, it is relevant to adopt the bill, which temporarily – before dissipating – can organise the most complex problems of the relationship between government authorities, local self-government and the founders of the print media. The bill proposes to prohibit founders from demanding materials to reconcile the right of founders to publish materials only on the basis of contracts and costs, to prohibit editorial changes to the founders' materials, to regulate all printed media, and to provide additional protection for public and public media editors, inter alia, by establishing that their release is possible only with the consent of the labour groups. Such a rule should protect the rights of editors from unjustified layoffs, whose aim may be to establish control over the media. Moreover, the implementation of this bill does not only require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine, but also foresees a reduction in the number of public media resources that will help to reduce spending from the State budget and from local government budgets. The committee therefore proposes that the bill be based.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u102	Dear colleagues, are there questions? You don't? Have a seat, please. From the committee first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information, Helen Anatolyevna Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u103	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! In fact, the bill that my colleagues have introduced is not of a revolutionary nature and, more importantly, I could say that it is even a duplicate of the four laws in force in Ukraine, namely: information on printed media in Ukraine, how public authorities work and public support for the media and social protection of journalists.” In fact, all the rules contained in the draft law are in one of these four laws. If you even look at the articles: the goal of activity, editorial freedom. No prioritisation of access to information.” All of this is in the relevant legislation. In fact, the bill underlines once again the need to take care of our media, so, in my personal opinion, I did not support the bill in committee voting. I don't see the need for this editorial freedom law. Why? Because, first of all, he's not. [[Applause]] He does not introduce any additional insurance requirements for journalists and editorials that could help them in their work. The second point is that the legal consequences of violating the requirements included in the draft are simply not stated. And yet another point that I was personally alerted to and why I did not vote in favour of the draft law is that it is impossible to dismiss the editor-in-chief from the editorial board or the public media. I can tell you that we had a similar example in the Donetsk region. The Donetsk Regional Council was the founder of the newspaper's life and, let's say, the inefficient leadership of the editor-in-chief, well, practically, brought the newspaper to zero, it was bankruptcy and so on. Only after the replacement of the editor-in-chief did the newspaper come to a cost-effective level and develop without the support of the Donetsk Regional Council. In fact, we have removed this burden from the area budget. Therefore, in this case, if the founders of the public and public media were to be banned from considering human resources issues, would that not actually lead to the fact that, until we were able to remove the editor-in-chief, he would simply have the entire text. Thank you. If there are any questions, I'll answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u104	Are there questions, fellow believers? Have a seat, please. I'm putting to a vote an order of number, more faithfully, the draft Ukrainian Law on Editorial Freedom of State and Public Press in the Dismantling Process, registration number 2738, on acceptance as the basis of the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[13:29:26]] For-39 The decision is not taken. The law is off-limits. A draft Law on the Moratorium of Deprivation of State and Municipal Media Facilities and Property is under consideration. Report, registration number 2739, reports a colleague of Mordovians. Prepare Bondarenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u105	Honourable National Deputies, the draft Ukrainian Law “On Moratoriums for Deprivation from the Editorials of State and Municipal Media and Property, Registration No. 2739, developed and submitted to the People’s Deputies, members of the Committee on Freedom of Word and Information, is proposed to establish a temporary moratorium on the alienation of premises and property of public and municipal media to the adoption of the Law on Reform of State and Municipal Media, which is intended to identify subjects of property rights. Information on the drafting of the bill has influenced some local authorities and local self-government leaders, who have started their own procedures without a legislative settlement, including self-privatization of these media. In fact, it's sort of a raid. And that's why we're addressing our committee. In particular, some local councils are beginning to step out of the founders of the publications, seeking to take away editorial facilities, stopping funding for publications that can lead to the debt of newspapers, trying to appoint their editors, such facts are, inter alia, in Zakarpatski, Vinnitsky, Dnipropetrovski, Cherkaske, Sumski oblasts, and other areas. This bill, by the way, is positively appreciated by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, as well as by the Cabinet of Ministers, so there is a request to support this bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u106	Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. I'm asking from the Committee of Helen Bondareco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u107	Dear colleagues! I fully agree with my committee colleague, indeed, that law is designed to prevent editing and lowering completely for money the assets currently owned by the public and public media. In order to maintain the logistical status quo, this is the first step in the process of public and public media. I propose to support this bill, as it will allow us to maintain the necessary logistical basis with which our public, municipal media can launch on equal competitive grounds with commercial media. The only comments that were made by the scientific and expert management were, however, more important, which is the property of a specific editorial and which is property with some other status. This is where the definitions suffer, so I think we can vote, take the basis of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u108	Are there any questions? Won't you sit down, who wants to share in the discussion? Please sign up for factions, please sign up for factions. Who wants the MPs personally? Also, there are no desirable ones. That is, we have reason to vote on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Ukrainian law on moratoriums on exclusion from public and municipal media outlets of premises and property. Bill 2739 registration number. Please vote. [[13:34:11]] For 248. The Law was adopted in the first reading. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda and decide on the draft organic production law. Registration number 3446. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:34:43]] For 229. The question is included. Please, the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Sergei Mikolaiovich Ribuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u109	Dear National Deputies! It is proposed to consider the draft law on organic production, which is extremely relevant to the economy, but also to the market economy of the agricultural sector, the draft law. Moreover, in several parts of our nation, organic production has been actively introduced and introduced for several years. But since there is no legislative basis, there is no appropriate and purposeful policy, no branding, no certification of everything else to serve these products as organic or natural, which have their own special price and demand, which is growing quite well today. In the explanatory note to the draft Law, the main issues and the entire system are written down. I want to say to people's MPs and radio audiences, that it's a little popular to say that organic production is not a return to primitive simple farming in the first place, but a return to natural, quality, clean production. If more is landed, if each of us, or the buyer, waiting for fresh tomatoes, first and foremost, cucumbers are no longer from the heat, but from the field and then we buy these tomatoes, not scleroidal, not fragrant, not aromatic, that means that they are grown, if not on the substrate, by using purely mineral fertilizers. Because the best kind of tomato, if it's grown without organic fertilizer, it can't be quality. So today, even from the parliamentary rostrum, we can recommend to every person who buys at the market, at the market, and wants such tomatoes, she should ask that uncle, "Do you have a cow, uncle?" And if there is, there's organic fertilizer, there's folding, and then there's going to be a good product. Thus, it is primarily predicted that organic production, which is to be minimised in chemical fertilizer and plant protection. It should be, says Alexander Mikolaiovich, practically banned hydroponics, and if not, because of the certification system and soil and raw materials and the finished production of appropriate markings, all that is written will not be counted for the economy of time, the draft law should be shown in the store as a prepared product, which is a natural product, that it is made on organic fertilizers, that it has appropriate quality and health properties for the body. And this is true, the draft law contains not only products and raw materials of plant origin, but also animal origin, starting with animals, of course, being kept in their own free will, pastures, direct contact with the land, including that small livestock and so on. So if I've convinced and I can see from you that I've convinced you, let me answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u110	Sergey Mikolayovich, you're so convinced that there are no questions. Yeah? Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? None. I feel like a specialist is going to report. I'm voting on the adoption in the first reading of Bill 3446 of the Organic Production Act. Please vote. There's a vote coming. [[13:40:24]] For 246
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u111	Decision taken. We have the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the other members of the Cabinet of Ministers in our Parliament, let's welcome them. [[Applause]] The Cabinet of Ministers proposes to consider two decrees on the release of Radchenk Vladimir Ivanovich from office of Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine and on the appointment of Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich as Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. He's got a word for it, wait. 3573, 3574 draft regulations. I am putting to the vote the question of including in the order of the day of these rulings. [[13:41:27]] For 248 Decisions will be made. Victor Fedorovich, please. The Prime Minister of Ukraine has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u112	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! In accordance with article 75, part 1, part 1, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part 2 of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, part 6, paragraph 3, and part 7, of article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I submit the application for the release of Radchenk Vladimir Ivanovich from office as Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u113	Vladimir Ivanovich, present, if there is a question to him or to the Prime Minister, please ask them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u114	Reason, they ask. Vladimir Ivanovich, please. Radchenko Vladimir Ivanovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the opportunity to work in such a group, but unfortunately, the relapse of the old disease has forced me, as they say, to release a more worthy candidate. So I'd like to resign.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u116	Any more questions? None. I'm betting on this motion for a draft regulation 3573 on the release of Vladimir Ivanovich Radchenk from office as Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:43:08]] For the 250. Decision taken. Order of appointment as Vice Prime Minister. Please, Victor Fedorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u117	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! According to part 8 of article 83, part 1 of article 85, part 4 of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine and parts 1 and 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, I submit a submission concerning the appointment of Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovic as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u118	Is there a question to any of the deputies to the Prime Minister or to the candidate for the post of Vice Prime Minister? Is it? Please, Catherine Samuel asks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u119	Dear Alexander Ivanovich, we remember the tragic history of the orange revolution when you, Kuchma, gathered you, declared that a nation that would never rise up against the people would rise up against the army. You were absolutely right. But I think you thought that part of the nation was orange. Would it not be now that you too would prefer some color? We wouldn't want that very much. For the unity of Ukraine is now required, and it is not by color that we should make reckonings, but that we should value the people, the common people, and the north, and the south, and the east, and the west. It's your wish and the question that we have a people. And we would very much like you to serve all the people of Ukraine. What's more, the authority that you're going to be handling now, it's up to them to be whole, to be the sovereignty of our state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u120	Thank you. I stand, stand, and stand upon the fact that the army and the fleet of Ukraine have sworn allegiance to the people. And it can never be used against its own people or used to solve some internal problems.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u121	Thank you. This is about being appointed Vice Prime Minister. That's why I'm putting to the vote draft decree 3574 on the appointment of Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. [[13:45:52]] For 246 Decision taken. The 246 deputies voted. First of all, I would like to thank Vladimir Ivanovich Radchenk for his good faith in his position as Vice Prime Minister. [[Applause]] And on behalf of the Supreme Council and to wish Alexander Ivanovich Kuzmuk success in this difficult work, that is, during a rather difficult political period of our lives. Now, with your permission, we're going to let go, obviously, of course, of the Prime Minister, or we're going to solve another issue about the inclusion in the order of one day of a matter related to the fact that today the President of Ukraine issued a decree and an order. Presidential decree number 474 this year. I'm reading the Internet right now. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u122	First of all, I would ask Alexander Ivanovich to take an oath under the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u123	Yes, please, that's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u124	That's the first one. And I'd like, if you could give him a word for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u125	Please. Alexander Ivanovich is invited to the rostrum. I'm the one who missed the procedure. I just thought that he was teaching me to remember, in the meantime, an oath, so I needed to give him a break or a more faithful time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u126	My first oath, in fact, I know it in memory and very well. An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Kuzmuk Alexander Ivanovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening Ukraine's sovereignty and independence, upholding human rights and freedoms, and ensuring the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society. Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, Reverend Victor Fedorovich, Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national MPs! Thank you for your high trust and, at the same time, I recognize the responsibility that rests on me for the most acute time of development and expansion of our nation. I have never changed my beliefs, so since the first time I was assigned, within my powers, I will work for the observance of the law in Ukraine, respect for man, so that human blood will never fall on Ukrainian soil. And all that will depend on me is the return of Ukraine to the legal field. Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m0.u127	Thank you for the good word and for Alexander Ivanovich. We wish him success in this matter. Now I'm going back to the question that I started. I don't have the President's official decree right now, but I do have an online version of him, which I don't think is very different from the original. So I ask you to listen carefully. The President of Ukraine today issued Decree No. 474 “On bringing the system of internal forces management into line with the Constitution of Ukraine”. This is the text. “In order to prevent the neutralization of real and potential threats to national interests, to prevent the use of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine in the interests of certain political forces that pose a threat to Ukraine’s national security, to introduce a system of internal military leadership as military formations in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine to implement part two of article 102, paragraphs 1 and 17, of part one, part three of article 106, paragraph 1 of section 15 of the “Transitional positions” of the Constitution of Ukraine, I hereby rule: [[further internal forces]] 1. To withdraw internal forces from the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine. 2. To determine that internal forces are subordinated to the President of Ukraine. 3. To the commander of the internal armies of Keechenko, it is urgent to bring this decree to the known command and to the individual composition of the internal forces. 4. To place personal responsibility for the insurmountable execution of this decree on the commander of the internal forces. 5. This decree is monitored by the Secretary of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine. 6. This command takes effect from the day it was published. Today, such a decree has been signed. And according to this, the President's Order on State Security. For the fulfillment of part two of article 2. Well, on the same articles of the Constitution, the Ukrainian Act on the State Protection of State Authorities in Ukraine and Officials, the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of National Security of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Law on the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, taking into account attempts to seize houses in which the State authorities are working, which pose threats to the constitutional order and in connection with the appeal of the Ukrainian Department of State Protection to the commander of the internal forces of Ishchenka to ensure that the internal forces carry out protection of public order around important public entities, in particular the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Justice of Ukraine, as well as their respective territories, the involvement of the Office of the National Protection of the Ukraine of the Internal Guards of the State. The president also signed such an order today. I just want to say in advance that the articles mentioned here do not have any relation to such functions, this is basic without even explaining. Therefore, the transitional provisions referred to here are: “The laws and other normative acts adopted for the validity of this Constitution” – that is to say until 1996 – are valid in a part that does not conflict with the Constitution of Ukraine. What this has to do with this decree I can't say, but it's a mystery to the lawyers. I suggest, I beg your attention, I suggest you consider this question at the plenary meeting at 4 p.m. Now, the committee's profile is looking at the substance of the proposals put forward for consideration by the Supreme Council. Is there no objection? That's why I want to vote for the High Council's evening meeting at 16 hours. Please. [[13:53:18]] For 245 Decision taken. Thank you. There will be a meeting of Parliament at 16 p.m. The morning session is closed.
