ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-14-m0.u1	Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to register with the "Council" system. [[10:09:36]] There were 268 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! We continued the meetings of the Conciliation Council yesterday, and today we also began the day of the Conciliation Council. I'd like to inform you about what's going on in the walls of the Supreme Council in trying to find some kind of compromise. First paragraph concerning the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I would like to remind you once again that the Supreme Council of Ukraine is holding the appointment of the President of Ukraine to the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna. According to article 200 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, a five - day deadline is set for the consideration of the matter. Under such circumstances, we should, in principle, consider the matter today because the fifth day is Sunday. If this is not addressed today, the deadline can be formally postponed, since this is how the calendar terms for Tuesday are calculated. However, the factions of Julia Timoshenko and “Our Ukraine” - National Self-Defense - are insisting on this issue today. Item two. That's what we're talking about in terms of change in voting. Two factions insist on a change in voting. At the moment, the Rules of Procedure are implemented through the “Council” electronic system. Article 37 of the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine provides for other modes of open voting. There are two ways that are proposed for consideration and that are in accordance with article 47 of the Rules by procedural decisions, i.e. by 150 votes. This is a nominal way of voting by raising hands and objectively with the name of each national MP who votes in favour, “against” or “holding back” according to the corresponding candidature. The second way is to vote by name ballots. I would like to stress that, in my opinion, a change in voting should take place within the framework of the Rules and under the conditions of acceptance by all participants in the process. In doing so, we do not have the right to violate the right of factions to introduce a question in accordance with the Rules on how to change voting. In order to eliminate any grounds for the charge, whether it be the Council system, or those or other national deputies of Ukraine, in the vote or not for the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. If we change the way we vote, of course, this may cause some problems in the future about further votes, but I think we're settling them. As for this particular situation, we need to listen to the faction and take a transparent and transparent approach to changing the voting method of the Ukrainian Prime Minister's election. The next question is what's going on with the two orders. This is a committee division decree in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Yesterday, at the suggestion of the leader of the Lithuanian ‘Block’ faction, we divided it into two parts. The first part is the identification of each individual committee by the respective faction, and the second part is already a personal distribution, both personal and fractional distribution by the first substitute. As deputy, First Deputy and Secretary of the Committee. In principle, we have a shared responsibility each committee, but unfortunately, the faction of the Party of the Regions did not provide a personal composition of the Supreme Council committees yesterday. So once again, I want to refer to the faction of the Party of the Regions to put together a personal composition so that we can form committees in quantity. Once again, I recall that article 34 of the Ukrainian Committees Act defines the interdependence of the first deputies and deputy heads of the committee from the number of such committees. So if we don't know the number of deputies that are going to be part of a committee, we're not going to be able to physically divide positions. And in view of that, a statement by two factions came forward, this was essentially a statement by the bloc, sorry, factions of the Party of Regions, and here I would like to formally and legally address this issue. Colleagues, allow me! I'd like to take a formal legal approach to this question. I need a 30-minute break on the table. We agreed on a 30-minute break at the Conciliation Council. I'm asking you to file an application for a 30-minute break so we can continue our consultations. There is a great appeal to all the national deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-14-m0.u2	This is no reason for me not to take their claim. There's been an application for 30 minutes, and, really, I'd like to go to the faction of the Party of Regions and other factions that may not have been able to register with our wish and request to register at the Supreme Council Hall in order not to have 268. Registration is the exclusive will of the faction to work in the walls of the Supreme Council. I would be grateful if the factions would register fully to prove that the Supreme Council is indeed working. Dear National Deputies! Today I would like to end the opening statement with a positive one, today's birthday to the national deputy Lucenka Yuri Vitaliovich. I'd like everyone to welcome Yuri Vitaliovich to his birthday and wish him all the best. Yuri Vitaliovich! Congratulations. [[Applause]] In view of the announcement of the recess, I apologize to the people's deputies, we are taking a break and continuing the session of the Conciliation Council with all factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-14-m0.u3	A colleague of factions, because a very difficult job is going through. Now it's about voting on the Prime Minister. So the next proposal is made, if you please, very carefully. It's number one. We are taking a joint decision to change the voting method so that no one will ever raise any questions about the credibility or implausibility of voting on the important personnel issue that the election of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. I want to point out once again, the joint decision, that is, in this vote, namely, the roll-up vote and the fixation of both the video and the audio fixation, neither the Party of Regions, nor the other factions, are blocking this voting procedure, and this should only take place in a coherent order. That's what we're talking about. The final decision is not taken. Item two. A party of regions put out a vote on Tuesday. So at that point, I'm offered the following approach: we go into the hall, we vote first, in order of the day Tuesday, which will consist of several questions. The first is the formation of the government and several sub-blocks: the election of the Prime Minister, the release of the Prime Minister, the release of the composition of the government, the election of the government, the termination of the powers of the national deputies, that is, five questions. Tuesday's second block of questions, it's already at the evening session, it's the formation of committees and governing bodies. By Tuesday, they promise that they will eventually agree that someone who goes away from the pie. But this does not apply in any way to the Prime Minister's vote, these are two separate questions. Now they've actually taken another 15 minutes to make final decisions. I call upon all factions, all members of the Conciliation Council, to enter the Hall, to vote on the formation of the agenda and to vote on the change in voting. I told you the last story, give me another 15 minutes. I'm sorry this is how it all goes, but just, just understand that the process is going very, very hard.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-14-m0.u4	We continue the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Dear national deputies, there was simply a request for a word. I think if we move on to giving words now, we're going to go back into a situation that's not going to lead to anything. I'm asking all the national deputies to take their seats, not to set foot at the Supreme Council rostrum. Colleagues, please take your seats. We're all set. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with what appears to be much easier to reach consensus even at the General Assembly of the United Nations, where more than 190 countries, but we did. And I am grateful to all the faction leaders for today's unanimous decision of the Conciliation Council and for the signatures of all the factions' leaders under this decision. I'll probably start with, in fact, what is being proposed for consideration by the Ukrainian national deputies. First, the question of how to form a day’s order on Tuesday was discussed. A final decision has been made on the question of the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers on Tuesday. This should be the first question of the day’s order on Tuesday. I will formally, with your permission, read the uniformly signed order of the day Tuesday, as drafted by the Conciliation Council. It's number one. About the appointment of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Item two. On the release from office of Prime Minister of Ukraine, Janukovič Viktor Fedorovich. Paragraph three. On the termination of the mandate of the current Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Paragraph 4. About the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Paragraph five. About the permanent suspension of the powers of Ukrainian national deputies appointed to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Item six. The election of the First Deputy and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Item seven. On the distribution of executive positions on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. That's number eight. The appointment of heads, first deputy heads and secretaries, deputy heads and secretaries of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. The other one. The Conciliation Council unanimously agreed that the requirement of Article 1 to 49 of the Rules, namely the adoption of procedural decisions, and Paragraph 37 of the Fifth of the Rules on the amendment of voting methods, was acceptable. And it's precisely that the Supreme Council will be looking at the question of how to change the voting system and it will be today. So there's a third, very important element that relates to the question of the distribution of committees under the protocol. The block of Lithuania insisted that this protocol should clearly identify two committees that are going to this bloc, and I would like to read it -- this is the Committee on Budget Affairs and the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations -- a protocol and unanimous decision on the fixation of the rights of the Lithuanian bloc on these two committees, and this is a very correct decision. So we're demonstrating that the Supreme Council protects the rights of smaller factions, and I think it's democratic, and that's what we're trying to build on the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The next question is to agree on the issue of moving on. on the transition to a vote. It was an urgent proposal by the faction of the Party of Regions to vote on Tuesday. And here the majority of the factions met the Party of the Regions and decided to make a decision on the election of the Prime Minister and the formation of the government on Tuesday. Next, it is very important to vote on the governing bodies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the first deputies, the deputy heads of the committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I made a political commitment and signed the following protocol. If there is no agreed draft decision of the Supreme Council on the distribution of committees and appointment to the governing bodies and if there is no decision signed by all representatives or directors of the respective factions, this decision will not be brought to the attention of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is my political commitment, supported by all the faction leaders. It is this: we must protect the rights of the opposition. It's an element of defense of the rights of opposition, a balanced approach to the distribution of committees. I am grateful directly to Mr. Kirilenko and to Julia Volodymyrý Timoshenko for supporting this position. In view of this, honourable national deputies, I would ask that we make a few decisions. The first decision is formally legal. We need to continue the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until we have finished our consideration of the agenda. I am putting to the vote the question of continuing our session until we consider all issues that are unanimously supported by the Conciliation Council. Deputies! I ask you to press carefully on the "Council" button. I'm betting on that question. [[14:24:57]] Thank you. 274 votes. Decision taken. The factions, please. Region Party – 0, "Club of Yulia Timoshenko" – 156, "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" – 71, Communist Party of Ukraine – 27, "Club of Lithuania" – 20. Dear National Deputies! Point two, I am putting to the vote the question of how to form the agenda for the daily plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 18 December 2007, which is composed of such issues, I would like to read them again. On the appointment of Prime Minister of Ukraine, on the dismissal of Prime Minister Janukovič Viktor Fedorovich, on the suspension of the current composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the permanent suspension of the powers of the National Deputies of Ukraine appointed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, on the election of the First Deputy and Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the distribution of senior positions on the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization, on the appointment of the Heads, First Deputy Secretaries and Deputy Secretaries of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and on the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. I ask you to vote in favour of the agenda of the December 18th session, which will begin, I'm sorry, the December 18th plenary session, which will begin at 10 a.m. Tuesday. Please put to the vote. [[14:26:36]] For 274 The factions, please. Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 0, “Julia Timoshenko Block” – 156, “Our Ukraine” – National Self-Defense – 71, Communist Party of Ukraine – 27, “Litvina Block” – 20. In accordance with article 37, paragraph 5, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in accordance with article 49 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am putting to the vote the procedural question of changing the voting procedure for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine and the composition of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. I would like to announce the proposed voting procedure. First. Every national MP is in his place of employment. [[who is registered and who wants to participate in the vote]] The other one. The head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine reads every Ukrainian national deputy on the alphabetical list. Third. Every Ukrainian national deputy whose name has been announced, in that case, if he votes "yes" - he raises his hand and votes "yes" and says "yes" if he votes "against" or "restraint" - without raising his hands, sitting in his seat, declaring his own decision. Four. When the decision is announced, our video and audio system first includes the microphone of each individual national MP, secondly, the video recording of each national MP. And the last. The results are monitored by the Counting Commission and the results of the vote form the minutes of the Counting Commission. This is the way I'm going to vote that I'm asking for the transcript to play, so that everything is reflected in the transcript and the way that the vote is reflected in the record of the Counting Commission. Plus. Dear Alexander Valentinovich, I understand. So I'm formally legally re-reading, with your permission, the protocol: “Change of the voting procedure for the release from office of prime minister of Ukraine, the suspension of the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, the formation of the Cabinet of Ministers according to the system that has just been announced by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.” I'm putting it to a vote. May I have the vote, Your Honorable People's Deputies? [[14:29:21]] For 253 I'm asking for factions. Decision taken. Region Party – 0, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 156, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense” – 71, Communist Block – 26, “Litvina Block” - 0. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we have come to an extremely important consensus decision today. First. We've formed an order of the day. And the Supreme Council of Ukraine will fulfill its constitutional obligation Tuesday to form a key branch of Ukrainian authority, which is the executive branch. The other one. We provide a fully transparent process for the selection of the governing bodies of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Something didn't work out. So I'm grateful to all the faction leaders for the very difficult, but for me, the right job is for both the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian society. By Tuesday, thank you. The meeting, the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, is closed.
