ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u1	Good morning, MPs, journalists, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, guests of the Supreme Council, radio audiences, TV sets! It's 10 o'clock, April 18, Wednesday. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration, to go into the hall, who's still on hold, put in the cards. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:30.]] Ready to work 259 national deputies. The morning session is open. Today, according to the Rules, there is time for the national MPs to speak, and I ask that you sign up for the speeches. Please, Hotchuk. Bertash for him? Instead, Bertash performs, then Scubaszewski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u2	Statement by the MP of the Party of the Regions. Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! Yesterday, the Constitutional Court began its consideration of the question of the compliance of the President's decree. The very fact that the issue began is evidence that democracy has not yet been trampled on in Ukraine. But today we all have witnessed the violent pressure of the presidential community. Armed with opposition, all available resources, including the Ukrainian Security Service. The President is being challenged to refer the judges of the Constitutional Court, to the removal of the Attorney General, to non-legal action against members of the CLTC. We understand very well that the legitimate decision of the Constitutional Court at the President's Secretariat is feared to be a fire. In its plans to block the court's work, it is a key element of the general plan of the coup d'état, which has been put into effect by the illegal dissolution of Parliament by our opponents in any way to prevent the adoption of the Constitutional Court's decision on the decree will last. There are no legal mechanisms here. Everything will be done outside the legal field, and unfortunately, the President is giving in to this pressure. The faction of the Party of the Regions claims that the verdict of the Constitutional Court and the need for a legal procedure that cannot be ignored if we think not only today but also tomorrow and tomorrow after our state. Only the Constitutional Court can and should resolve a political conflict inside the country, after which a political compromise should be found to address Ukraine's internal problems. Finally, the Constitutional Court's decision is the only solution. But the necessary stage for Ukraine's development is the rule of law. And knowingly creating obstacles to the work of the Constitutional Court by the President is a crime. As for the actions of today’s opposition, their former allies today openly refer to the opposition’s actions as an appeal to the coup d’état in Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists that the meeting of the Constitutional Court be held. And the decision has to be made. We condemn the practice of discrediting a higher court body with numerous field applications loaded.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u3	Wait a minute. Scubaszewski gives you his right. Keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u4	Or even outright accusations of bribery, pressure, blackmail are very hard to demonstrate in Ukraine, but there is a process of democratic evolution, it is extremely burdened with information wars, a waste of compromise, unfounded accusations, but this is the way the Constitutional Court must go. The judges of the Constitutional Court need to understand the mission that has been put on them by the historic time and to carry it out without hiding from professional and civil duty under political circumstances. Whether someone likes it or not. Are the various political powers ready to receive an assessment from the Constitutional Court of their methods of political activity or not? But we all have to realize this: if Ukraine is firmly on the path of European democracy, if we are to adhere to democratic principles, we must recognize and implement decisions of the higher courts in Ukraine. The Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Janukovic, in his statement to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, expressed not only his political position but also the position of the entire parliamentary majority: to acknowledge and implement any decision of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, our opponents, who planned such an electoral blitzkrieg, have already stated that we should not expect a decision from the Constitutional Court. I would like to ask these officials: "Honorable, and what state are you building?" Perhaps where the Supreme Commander’s opinion will be the only right decision. We have been through this, and the consequences of such policies are obvious to all. Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't want the political elite's problems to cloud your life, which you often build up, not because of it, but in spite of the actions of the government. Today, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine have set an important task: to make the work of power as useful to the people as possible. We are well aware of what we are aiming at, but the results of the parliamentary-government coalition's activities confirm the correctness of the chosen path and methods of achieving this goal. They're trying to stop us in any way. We also understand that very well. But the new elections, even if they happen, should not be a turning point in the political war, for the choices themselves do not solve any of the problems facing Ukraine. Therefore, the search for compromises, a solution to the political crisis, and a common strategy for future action, following the verdict of the Constitutional Court, a path that has no historical alternative. In the midst of political opposition and political struggle, we need not forget: we are united much more than divided – the desire to live in a single, strong and prosperous Ukraine, to raise children and grandchildren, and to look to the future with confidence. And I would like to say the last thing that has just come is that the representatives of BUT and the "self-defence" have beaten our deputies. Once again, I urge the President of Ukraine to sit at the negotiating table and stop this hostility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u5	Thank you, thank you. I'm asking you to fix it. There is no illegal dissolution of Parliament, there is an attempt to illegally dissolve Parliament, which is classified accordingly in the criminal code. And that's what you have to say. There's no divorce, once again, throw it out of the lexicon. There's a divorce attempt. Now the MPs, Mr. Nastawayko and Mr. Maupuk, are handing over their right to speak to the deputy, Mr. Matthews. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u6	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues, respected compatriots, a statement by the Communist faction. We have just witnessed a very dangerous escalation of political opposition. The so - called opposition, with the apparent approval of the constitutional guarantor, has crossed all bounds. The work of the Constitutional Court is blocked, the only one in the state of constitutional jurisdiction. The unthinkable in any normal state has become possible in Ukraine, which has declared itself a legitimate democratic state. This criminal step is a logical continuation of the lawlessness, the abuse of the Constitution instituted by President Yushchenko by his anticonstitutional decree on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council. It is obvious that these actions are wrong to put an end to which the Constitutional Court has them. Once again, it is confirmed that the so-called opposition — Timoshenko and her team — has openly stated that they do not accept any decision of the Constitutional Court. All these days we have witnessed how attempts have been made to press the court, get it to make a decision that would at least create the legality of the Yushchenk anti-constitutional decree. Yushchenko met with the judges of the Constitutional Court, which in itself is totally unacceptable under conditions that have now arisen in the state. As it turned out yesterday, he even got in touch with the referee's nominee, but it probably wasn't enough. Thus, the Ukrainian Security Service was involved in this. To violate the law, to demand a secret investigation, to presuppose innocence. Information on corruption has been launched into society, which has now been corrected by the Attorney General's Office. In the meantime, the President is writing this question to the court. And what a farce it was for some of the judges of the Constitutional Court to try before the trial began without any reason to create in society an idea of the inability of a free and objective hearing of a case. They even claimed that they could not participate in the same process. Now, the leader of BUT and her company is exploiting the thesis that they didn't want it to be, of course, the established Constitutional Court and that the President should even call off the judges assigned to his quota. To put it mildly, it is surprising that such absurd ideas may appear at all, since the Constitutional Court Act does not provide for this. However, we may no longer need to be surprised. If the President allowed himself to issue a decree to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council in the absence of the reasons set out in article 90 of the Constitution, his “loving friends” may feel that they can do whatever they want today. And here's what's coming out. The President of Brussels states that in Ukraine everyone will be subject to a decision of the Constitutional Court, whatever it may be. It was just yesterday. And those to whom he is trying claim and also yesterday that they do not accept any decision of the Constitutional Court. And today's blocking of the Constitutional Court is a crime, Your Honor. This is another attempt to resolve the issue of power grabbing. The script of this and began to come true. We demand that the President take immediate action to end crime and ensure the unhindered activities of the Constitutional Court. If this is not done, we are obliged to begin with you, Your Honor, the procedure for impeachment of the President of Ukraine. We demand that the Ministry of Internal Affairs immediately unlock the work of the Constitutional Court. We demand the Attorney General's Office to file a criminal case against the organizers of this criminal act. And I think we should listen here to the information and the Minister of Internal Affairs, and to the Attorney General of Ukraine. We appeal to the judges of the Constitutional Court to show, as never before, courage, endurance and loyalty to the oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u7	Thank you. The word is Kalashnikov. He passes the word to Fesenk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u8	The faction Party of the region, Fesenko, Lugansk. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to draw your attention, distinguished colleagues, to the problems of gross interference by the President's Administration with judicial activities. We, the people's deputies, have been elected by the people and hired by our constituents. How the opposition likes to express itself, to work. Therefore, we are dismissed by the anti-constitutional, anti-law decree of the President on the early dissolution of Parliament. In terms of the protection of their labour rights, a number of national deputies have legally applied to the courts for the protection of their labour rights. The President's administration has had a hysteria about this. Pending the judgement of the court, threats to judges, disciplinary proceedings, illegal inspections of prosecutors, inspections of the Supreme Council of Justice and dismissals began. What layoffs can be discussed if the Mukachev Court suspended the Supreme Council's ruling and everything was in order for the President. I have prepared a request to the Attorney-General to determine who directly exerts pressure on judges to bring these persons to justice. Not only judges are subjected to unprecedented pressure. On 13 April 2007, the head of the Department of Public Prosecutions of Kiev Metis was brought to justice on the facts, and I quote “intervention into the activities of the public official, the President of Ukraine, and the obstruction of electoral law by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine Lavrinović”. I am no longer saying that the position of the articles of the Criminal Code is not at all consistent with the content of the order to initiate criminal proceedings, but also with the person of a number of forgerys. First, the procedure for initiating criminal proceedings does not fall within the competence of that official. Secondly, no statements in this regard have been registered. Thirdly, no investigative examination was carried out. Obviously, it was an obvious order. All these facts had been established by the Office of the Attorney-General, which had abolished as an illegal order, and a group of people's deputies had been asked to criminalize the official. Our guarantor of the Constitution has consistently adopted the practice of double standards. In raising the question of the early elections of the Parliament and the President, he clearly read out paragraphs and articles 108 of the Constitution on the grounds for his early elections. Nor does he, nor does his environment want to see article 90 of the Constitution. Or if the court decides in his favor, we have an objective court. If not, the court's decision is a show. And there are a number of examples. It is not surprising that the rules of the law are fundamentally violated. If even a political scientist on Freedom of Speech asks Inna theological question: “What is the law?” And after a professional response, the need to enforce and enforce the law is questioned. This is already called legal injustice and legal chaos. And all of this is a heavy burden.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u9	Just a minute. Kovalova gives him his right. Keep talking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u10	The courts have taken, adopted and will take judicial decisions. We seek the rule of law and no one, not even the President, has the right to violate the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. In addition, distinguished colleagues, I would like to brief you on the process that took place yesterday and where I participated. A court hearing was opened and 18 full-fledged constitutional judges began their consideration of the case. A statement was immediately received by Šishkin, who questioned the possibility of a process in general, in terms of his view of the illegality of the Supreme Council. He also questioned the participation of the representative of the Supreme Council of Mendus. All these submissions were supported by the representative of the President. The Trial Chamber considered all these claims and rejected them as unfounded, as a decision by the Constitutional Court on the conduct of a trial involving all parties in the case was adopted on 5 April. The representative of the President stated that the President in the Susanna Romanovna case had been wrongly appointed. She was allegedly appointed by the President. The Vice-President of the Constitutional Court, rather than the President, had doubts under the law. However, the Vice-President of the Constitutional Court, Pcheničny, clearly replied that on 5 April, the President of the Constitutional Court had not been at work, and he had ordered the Presidential Station to appoint Susana Romanovna. All applications were granted and the court moved to judicial investigations. Thus, the President of the Stanic case addressed this point. She rejected everything. Courageously, yes. Everyone has rejected the charges and refused, said that she would not claim self-refoulement and would consider the matter on the merits in the name of our people. In addition, there was a procedure for hearing the case, an uninterrupted procedure for hearing the case, that is, until 28 April. If more time is needed, a separate decision will be made on this matter. Six hours in a row was questioned yesterday by our colleague Miroshničenko Yuri Romanović, who answered the questions of the Constitutional Court. Today, the Constitutional Court was scheduled to begin its meeting at 9.30 a.m. However, due to known circumstances, the meeting was still adjourned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u11	Thank you. It's Mutz's word, I understand. Ah, Mutz and Mironenko are handing over Daych. Please, a word. Try to bet in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u12	Dutch, Party of Regions, Crimea. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, our country has essentially died waiting for the Constitutional Court to rule on the well-known Presidential Decree. The President, the President of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine stated their readiness to comply with the court's decision. It is believed that these statements have largely removed the enormous, alarming tensions in society that have been experienced in the past two weeks. Even so, attempts by individual politicians at various charges against both individual judges and the Constitutional Court as a whole continue to introduce into society that the court is unable to make the right decision from their point of view. It is clear that the brain of its supporters is being brainwashed in case the decision is not in their favour, and a site is being prepared to fail to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. This is a very dangerous game that has been tried to impose on the people of Ukraine radically-minded parties of war. The result was another strain that brings us back to the edge of the abyss. Not only is the country's security at stake, but its very existence. Isn't the price too high for the ambitions of individual political leaders? How can we measure and assess our diverse political experience, our efforts, assurances and appeals that all the bulls of the Ukrainian people and for them, if the country is twice at a crossroads over the past two years, if people enter the square, not under State flags, but mainly with political passions? Never thought it would even be possible to return to the events of 2004 and to speak to Kharkiv with a call to prevent the country from breaking up. In this regard, it is simply a superfluous output in the light of Evgenia Kushnareva's book “Elections and villas”. And I would very much not like the philosophical interpretation of the villas to have its threatening sound, because if the supporters of the rematch do not at any cost stop pumping a boat called “the State of Ukraine”, a known period of history called “the ruins” may not be the most tragic and gloomy. I want to believe that everyone understands that the point of no return has yet been passed, and the pitchforks are not even rakes. I strongly believe that a moratorium on political statements and decisions taken by the opposite party is necessary as a violation of their positions. The coalition has taken more than one step in this regard, and we are entitled to wait for such a line of conduct from the opposition. It is only in a calm atmosphere, while continuing the day-to-day practical work of each of the branches of government, that a decision of the Constitutional Court should be awaited and a compromise sought. I would like to remind you that there is a compromise and there is a compromise. In meeting the common people, it would seem far from the great policies that the country's destiny, its future, believe me, is no less concerned than the political elite, and I am increasingly convinced that today only compromise, the movement to meet each other can stop the growing tension and deepening crisis, and there is nothing shameful for both sides. If political passions are eased, Ukraine will return to normal life, becoming united again, not compromise, but wisdom. In conclusion, two words of morality. It can't be much or little, it can't be juggled, it can't be eaten or gone. When we are approached, the coalitions, with a proposal to withdraw from the last nine months, must not forget what preceded them, including the events of 2004. Lessons must be learned by all. Therefore, by calling for a European choice and recognizing the love of democracy, we must not forget the history of our own country, for its future depends largely on what lessons we will learn together from the past. Dear colleagues, voters, everyone who listens to me and wants to hear it! I want to remind you that the smart one learns from his mistakes, the wise one learns from the strangers. If we have not been able to prevent conflict, let us show wisdom so that we can all come out of it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u13	Leschenko, "Our Ukraine", please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u14	Honourable Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, respected Ukrainian citizens. Victor Lechchenko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, city of Kharkiv Real political practice drives us all into a maze from which there seems to be no way out. As with most Ukrainians, we understand who initiated the situation. We've all witnessed the unique grouping of those who pushed the President to sign a famous decree, and now we're seeing what happens to them when the electoral process seems to have begun. Each one of them with such chiefly zeal drags over the blanket, which is only to be said in good Russian: “Lead, cancer, pudder - effluent. ” In these circumstances, the question of the relevance of the spring parliamentary elections is inappropriate for several reasons. The first. They do not have adequate legislative grounds. The political forces that seek them are unable to reach understanding among themselves, but they are able to unite Ukraine. But there are no economic, political, or social conditions for these elections. The plan for radical opposition lies in the further destabilization of the political and economic situation in Ukraine and through the holding of time-consuming elections, using the Supreme Council as a mechanism, to come to power at any cost, with the next distribution of posts. Today's blocking by these radicals of the work of the Constitutional Court is just a vivid confirmation of their thieving intentions. A party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs is in no way able to understand democracy in Booth's treatment. We've never served anyone, we haven't worshipped anyone, we've stood up and we've continued to defend the interests of the medium and small business industry as the most responsible class for economic transformation in the country. In terms of political culture. If the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs does not support the adventurous plans of the beaters and the radically configured part of "Our Ukraine," but, I notice, very small, there are labels hanging there. This is precisely the case with a low political culture, because social economic development programmes and intellectuals must compete, not dirty technologies and personal images of politicians. Today’s situation convinces us how expensive it is for us to pay for the absence of a social dialogue. The environment that suggested that the President should observe the content of the Constitution, not the content of the Constitution, but the use of its spirit and political ideas, is in a state of confusion and cannot see the outcome. You know, it reminds me of those manufacturers who in Soviet times produced the Illich smell. The point is that the Constitution should not be sniffed but read and understand, and the media imposes primitive standards, and experts are widely used by the new Ukrainian Valentines of the stars, which are called authoritative.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u15	Just give me a minute to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u16	Some of them come on television to find out what the law is, what the law is, what the law is. Of course, their conscientious political scenarios seem inappropriate, and in many cases they resemble beneficial events. In this situation, we can draw on the experience of the parliamentarians of democratic countries. I suggest. The first is to invite the very authoritative people of Ukraine: ex-presidents, ex-premiers, ex-speakers, representatives of influential veterans and public organizations who can help us get out of a deadlock. The other one. Over the years of independence, several hundred high-class professionals have been trained in Ukraine, including more than a hundred doctors, professors of jurisprudence, more than 80 political scientists and professionals in the field of government, and they really have something to say to politicians and society. This requires immediate round tables, public discussions in the Supreme Council, the National Academy of Sciences, the Academy of Law, political sciences, the Academy of Presidential Studies, the Association of Sociologists. Assemble and unite their proposals in the media and send them to the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers. In two or three days, we will be able to gather and form an intellectual elite's opinion that will allow society to understand the imperfection and non-violence of political opposition and to take away those values and social requirements that can be the foundation of a future political dialogue. On this basis, all political elites of the country need to sit at a round table and agree even before the Constitutional Court’s decision on the political perspective of Ukraine’s development. Only under such conditions will we be able to find common understanding and understand why we need elections so that they don't become a tool to satisfy someone's ambitions, as is happening in Ukrainian languages right now. I've just been to Kharkivsk, Chernigiv, Sumskie, and, even, in the Fatherland of the President, it's not clear to many people: why does Ukraine need to go to polling stations immediately instead of spring-field work? This is the way we're going to create the conditions for achieving a social consensus and ensuring a stable economic development and a promising perspective. I urge you to listen to what the people of Ukraine want. Ukraine needs stability and accelerated economic development. This is possible only with the unification and support of all society and stability in the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u17	Freeman. He's not here, is he? Belash, please. Vladimir Borisovich, don't you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u18	Party of regions, Bilash Boris. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, a respected colleague, as a member of the National Union of Ukrainian Writers, I would like to convey the views of most of the creative elite on the events that have taken place and to note that our guarantor, in terms of decrees, has dispersed as a soldier's wife before pay. Parliament is moving away, changing the court's mind, the CTC and so on. I mean, who I want, who I want, I wish. For several weeks now, we have been setting him up as a foolish child to take a reasonable step. And he soaks his eyebrows and melts his legs. And recently, in a meeting with journalists, he called upon the people to wisdom, notice, and courage. I will add, as the ancients have said, that speakers are learning to speak well, but they are not learning to do well. Thus, as far as wisdom is concerned, he lacks it. And if it wasn't, then you wouldn't ask for it, otherwise we wouldn't be watching that yellow theater of absurdity that's happening today when orange apologists say that the election, that it's normal, that it's cleansing. Cleansing up what? Budget, money from the people's pocket? People felt stable, they started, so to speak, to live with a reliable life. What is this strange concern for the people? There's a lot of destabilisation in the country. The budget has already decreased by half a billion. And all of this was caused by a bunch of orange snobs snorkeling towards power, a bitch leading an orange goat politician. Kozlopoliticalum. I would like to express it, as it is said, in images. I am sorry for my deluded people. To himself, Maidan elected the right But when he saw in a year, As a rapidly impoverished Power, Weary of fear and discussion, Awaken in Expectation of New Disasters under the fat buttocks of "any friends", She said her back was saddled with a spear. Thank you. And I would like to read four lines of a major child diaper specialist already in use, Mr. Lucenka: “All the activities of Lucenka” And that he will not be freed. Assessment by doctors as a flat-footed mind. Thank you. And as it is said, you don't have to be a prophet to say the future to our President: "Slovakia in the meadow, as it was in the spring, So will you, my dear friends, who will sing songs. And when the defeat comes, the evil will be the time, Even Grandma Paraska. “ I don’t know
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u19	Yeah, yeah. I don't think we're going to offend famous politicians, especially Grandma Parask. There's no need to be offended. Please, from the Bulba Socialists. Please deposit in three minutes. Vladimir Borisovich read his own poems, so do not read to strangers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u20	Yes, I will read prose, not poems. And the prose is that we already have a lot of patience from the so-called opposition that has set the goal of restoring power at all costs, at all costs. We smiled, said things, commented on their actions when they tried to block the Supreme Council. When they captured the shield, they paralyzed the work of individual councils, including Kyivradí. Now they're blocking, paralyzing the work of the Constitutional Court. And we are obliged to respond in such a way that the people of Ukraine realize that Parliament, the Supreme Council, remains the bedrock of true democracy, the rule of law in Ukraine. And today, I propose to call on the leaders of the forces who are responsible for ensuring public order, who are responsible for the work of state institutions, and to listen to them about what is actually going on in the Constitutional Court. Listen to information about how they provide the work of this very important government agency. On the basis of this information, to accept an invitation to the President of Ukraine to guarantee the work of state institutions, to put an end to the adventurous activities of irresponsible politicians. If the President does not comply with our demands, then plan adequate actions, actions that may lead to the functioning of public authorities. Do we not understand that they are afraid of the Constitutional Court’s decision? We do not understand that the presidential decree is unconstitutional. Everyone understands that. Now, apparently, most of the people understand that. That is why it is extremely important for us to ensure the work of the Constitutional Court and, pending the decision to offer compromise to the President, after the decision has been taken by the Constitutional Court, we are obliged to do so. If he recognizes the decree as constitutional, we'll go to elections, we'll go to elections, we'll go to elections, we'll go to elections, we'll go to elections. If the decree is declared unconstitutional, then the President is obliged.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u21	Thank you. A group of deputies who had been delegated to the Constitutional Court had found that they could not go there, even though the court had begun its work now. And one of the participants, of the representatives of this group of deputies, Alexei Malinowski, will explain the reason why e is allowed to use his immunity. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, honourable ones who listen to us on the radio today, no one can blame me for being so radical or involved in something. I want to say the following. Even the problem is that the MPs didn't make it into the hall, most of them didn't. The trouble is, the judges weren't allowed into the hall. And our conversation with my colleagues, with the voters who are there, with the MPs from the Timoshenko Yuli Block, the motivation is one: the judges are engaged, the judges are lying. You see, the problem is that this group that calls itself opposition today, they're putting into the minds of citizens such a thesis -- so that today's Supreme Council or state authorities don't do it all wrong. So the only way out is by breaking the law, breaking this system of power. You know, and it got a little creepy for me, because in principle, if you go by that logic, their logic, there's basically no state today in Ukraine. On this side, I am absolutely surprised by the position of the President. I'm not saying that anymore. His decree did what is happening in the state today. I'm 100 percent sure that everything that happened in the Constitutional Court today is trying to break the court hearings -- it's all being done with the knowledge of the President's Administration or Secretariat, including him. I'm 100 percent sure that today Julia Volodymyr is with her colleagues, or with her singles is using the President, not as much as his office, to do what is being done in our country today. I can't even figure out the logic of these people. What do they want? For me, as a person who is not the first day in politics, logic is one: when it comes to Bogdan Hubski, who works there actively, his interests in the Cherkas region, his financial interests, it is “Cherkasigaz”. As far as the other deputies who work there are concerned, their personal interests are concerned. Our efforts to ask people, sometimes people stand there to support the Timoshenko Block to ask: What do you want? They don't want anything, you know. Choices. Please, let's have a party. How? Whom should I replace? You see, we have an absolute case coming out of the state today. And I'm sorry about our voters. And whoever listens to me, think about what we are doing today in this country, in our country. If it wasn't there, I came from Cherkishka three days ago. Sberkasa. People get a pension allowance. 30 bucks is small, but they get a pension allowance. I mean, there's a positive process going on. Why are we breaking it? We're breaking up because today, I think, the Attorney General's Office should file a criminal case on an article impeding the work of the State Organ of the Constitutional Court. We have enough MPs to take away the touch of the deputies who organized it, I call the names: Hubsky, the one you saw, Cosmiakin, Lashenko, well, there might have been someone else there, Lashko, I'm sorry, Lashko, then Sas, Food, that's who I've just seen. You got it. That is why we need to do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u24	I've got everything. That's why I'm going to turn to our voters. Think, the state is in trouble today, it must be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u25	Thank you. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an exchange of views about the situation that is under way today. I would like to point out that all of these are actions in the context of the President's decree, which is essentially an attempt at the illegal dissolution of the legislative body of a state, which is duly classified in the Criminal Code. You have to remember that. Any step that goes beyond the law and the Constitution has no statute of limitations. I just want to give you one example. Now General Jaruselski is being tried in Warsaw for having established a military state in Poland 26 years ago without the grounds provided for by law. Although the situation was serious, the law did not provide for it. 26 years later, he should answer the article that envisions 10 years in prison. So I would like to draw the attention of those who are in the process of blocking the Constitutional Court, to other things, you will be responsible for these things. Notice, yesterday it happened, it started. The meeting began with the Constitutional Court. Of course, on a quota basis, a formal court stands for political positions. But if they're within the Constitution, that's one thing, and if it's just an adventure implemented like that, it looks like that. When our reporter from the subject of the application to the Constitutional Court, Yuri Miroshnichenko, answered questions for about five hours, excuse me, stupid questions are asked only to hold back time to then prepare opportunities for the use of some other illegal action, so that it may be possible not to allow the court to make the appropriate decision, for you see, they do not believe that the court will take the necessary decision. And if they do not make the necessary decisions, there is no guarantee, then immoral judgment. Well, strange, distorted morality. If a body of higher constitutional jurisdiction adopts a just decision based on the Constitution, it is immoral. But there can be no morals outside the law, nor can it be said that breaking the law is moral. Crime could never have been moral. I'd like everyone to cut their noses, stop interpreting morals, because I notice those who have the least right to talk about morality, the most about it, and spread it. This has become a strange practice for the Ukrainian politician. Take note of such details. Trying to get the Attorney General released because, you see, he's not in charge. I remind everyone of the article of Constitution 85 of articles and the chapters relating to the Attorney General's Office, the prosecutor at the office of the President can only release Parliament and appoint only Parliament. And there are no responsibilities; there is only such a situation. And I would also like to draw attention to this detail, because today some of those who call themselves solid politicians or who think they are are are starting to talk about the dissolution of the Supreme Council, about that. That Parliament is no longer working, because, you see, the President's decree has been issued. I was talking yesterday about the fact that the President's decree has no more legal power than the Supreme Council's decree. That's the first one. Oh, that's different. Notice, in the Constitution it is written. If the President is unable to carry out his duties, they rely on a valid Constitution for the Head of the Supreme Council, but he cannot carry out all the duties, he works with 90 days, and he is limited in certain functions so that he does not take over the authority of another institution of authority, power, or function of another institution. But the Constitution does not say that someone can replace the Supreme Council, there is no substitute. Why? Because the Constitution consisted of the use of the accepted principle of the continuity of power in the world. Why are the consultations being held today, let's say, at the initiative of the Prime Minister or the President among them? Because I have to comment today, unfortunately, on the President who violates the basic principle, he's showing that there's no one to talk to here, because, you see, the Supreme Council doesn't work, it doesn't. That's what I'm saying, it is, it's working, it's going to work, because that's what the Constitution provides for -- first. [[Applause]] And secondly, if we talk about blocking today of the Constitutional Court, when we talk about what limits the rights and status of deputies who want to express their position or want to observe how constitutional justice works. I would like to remind those who prevent them from doing this and hindering the work of the Constitutional Court, the deputies, today you're using your right of not being touched there, pushing people, but if the prosecution goes to the Supreme Council today about putting them in place according to the law, I don't think the Supreme Council will be on your side, it will probably support that proposal. And then maybe some of the people out there who are trying to demonstrate their attitude towards everything that's going on will remember some things that he didn't want anyone to remember, and then it'll be easier to understand how to follow the Constitution and the law all have in the state. This was where the question of violation of the impeachment procedure with regard to the President, or whatever. I don't think it's necessary. What's more, I don't think it's necessary to do that, because I imagine that if we put the impeachment issue in order today, we'd be sitting in the hall right now. [[Applause]] And two thirds would suffice, and three fourths would suffice. So I would like all those who are involved in this procedure and in the President's institution to look a little bit sober at who's making assessments because of what's going on in the state. I'm not saying that because I have, let's say, think about it, I know that if we went this way right now, we'd get support from the block right now. a block that, by the way, you don't have to buy, because talking about buying a Kabmin law there, no. The idea that you can take a position there can be in such a situation, and if you don't, let's go back to the President's candidacy. Once again, none of this is going to work out, good for Ukraine at least, and everything will be done as provided for in the Constitution. I was and I'm in favour of elections in 2011 on the basis of laws that we, if necessary, will improve. If we have to make a correction to the Constitution, let's do it. But this is what Parliament will do on the basis of chapter 13 of the Constitution, because there can be nothing else. And once again, there were proposals for compromise, regarding consultations. Two hands in. We'll find compromise. One condition is mandatory, based on the Constitution. Nothing beyond the Constitution, outside the constitutional system, is going to be done in the state. Then the state will have a chance. Everything else is everything, I'm sorry, the terrain. So I want all of us to remember this and keep this line clear. Finally, I'd like to ask the faction leaders, the factions who are authorized to think about next week, to think about how we're going to work, taking into account today's political, social-imposed situation. If we have to, we'll continue in the same mode that we did last week. I think there's a reason for that. While it is to be expected that the Constitutional Court will make a just decision, a just decision can only be what we understand perfectly, for there can be no other, otherwise it must be overturned by the judges themselves. They're obviously not going to do that. And there was an offer to invite the Minister of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General here for information. Let us write them a letter so that they can make such information tomorrow. [[The voice from the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u26	It's on its own. But they're doing it, yeah. They're doing it. So once again, let's focus on today's planned issues, and those who need to ensure public order need to do their job. The Youth Housing Act, registration number 1074, is under consideration. [[Filindash project]] Eugene Filindash, please, on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u27	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, radio audiences, television sets! We all know how painful the subject of youth housing is. Without exaggeration, I can say that this is question number one, since there are about 90,000 young families in line to improve housing, and this is just an official line of data. The real situation is much more complicated. In the meantime, only one percent per year, 1.3 percent of the young households in the housing sector receive extended loans. How can such statistics satisfy young people? A credit to a modern - day youth is, unfortunately, the only chance for his own home. Because you can talk about raising birth rates, running advertising campaigns, hanging boards of "Let's Love!", but what family creation can be like if there's no place to raise children. Of course, there is now a State Programme to provide young people with housing, but it is being implemented very slowly. And at the current rate, when only a percentage per year of young people needing housing, this problem can be solved within 90 to 100 years at the current rate. Of course, the state is slightly changing the situation for the better. Yes, from 1998 to 2006, the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing was granted long-term credits for construction and housing of various budgets, budgets of different levels, totaling over 710 dollars. And as of January 1, 2007, $8.5,000 had been loaned. According to government and local budgets, about 5,000,300 apartments have been built through the credit mechanism. In addition, over 2.5 years-2003-2005, the introduction of a partial interest rate project for commercial banks to young families, more than 17,000 loans with interest compensation for them, more than 1 billion 800 million commercial banks' loans at a government budget cost of 26 million dollars, which is 60 times higher than the planned rates for the government's youth housing programme, and accounts for about a quarter of the mortgage market in Ukraine during this period. But despite all these beginnings, a good start, it is clear that a given area needs major reform and improvement. And it is very good that this is understood not only by practically all the forces represented in Parliament, but also by representatives of the government and the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth, Housing. In particular, this bill, which has been submitted for your consideration, has been developed by me, as well as by my colleagues Katerina Samoylik, Andry Pinchuk, Mikola Tomenko, also with experts and experts from the foundation, with the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers. It is worth noting that the draft law on the provision of housing for young people is being finalized in accordance with Supreme Council of Ukraine regulation No. 237-16 of 6 October last year, as a result of a bill being discussed at the Supreme Council meeting. The new revised draft draft of the bill takes into account the positions of young, public organisations expressed in the public hearings of the Bill on 19 September 2006, the comments of the State Commission on Financial Services Regulation, the proposals made by the National Deputies in the course of the discussion of the bill at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, the comments of the General Scientific and Experimental Administration, and the proposals of the National Specialised Financial Institution, the State Fund for Promoting Youth Housing. The draft law detailed the provisions that provide for the establishment by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of a certain order of granting state-owned credit and housing subsidies, namely the arrangements for the formation of financial resources for the provision of credit and targeted targeted subsidies for construction, reconstruction, housing acquisition, the procedure for granting and returning state-owned credit for the construction, reconstruction or acquisition of housing, targeted targeted subsidies. With a view to increasing the scope of new housing, the bill is designed to expand the list of housing credit schemes, as well as to set out how they will be implemented. The second section of the bill is supplemented by new articles that reveal the content of the proposed state support mechanisms, the provision of shelter for young people, namely: the granting of extended long-term state loans for construction, reconstruction or housing, the provision of targeted housing subsidies for construction, reconstruction or housing, the provision of housing for rent with the right of redemption, and the provision of standard mortgage loans. The mechanism for lending loans for the construction, reconstruction, or acquisition of housing through the introduction of special housing savings accounts of citizens in commercial banks has been detailed. The draft law on youth housing provides for the transformation of a state-owned financial institution – the State Fund for the Promotion of Youth Housing into a subordinated Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine – the State-owned Financial Institution – the State Fund for Youth Housing Loaning, which is more fully suited to the core of the Fund's tasks. This fund is defined as an income institution that will accumulate and earn financial resources that will focus exclusively on state support measures for young families' housing, which will allow, in principle, 5-7 years from now, to give up large budgetary funding for state support measures for youth housing. The bill also proposes to include additionally in the Monitoring Board of the State Fund for Youth Housing Crediting of Representatives of the Court of Auditors and Representatives of each deputy faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by consent. The bill “The Source of Long-Term Housing Financing and Subsidisation of Young Citizens of Ukraine” is supplemented by provisions detailing the order in which financial resources are formed to provide long-term government loans or targeted subsidies for construction, reconstruction or acquisition of housing for a year at the expense of the corresponding budgets. In particular, spending on long-term government loans and targeted subsidies for the construction or acquisition of housing for young families and single young citizens is determined annually by the State Budget Act of Ukraine for a given year by a single line of at least half a percent of the budget expenditure. Expenditures for the provision of mortgages and targeted housing subsidies to young families and single young citizens on local budgets are determined annually by the decisions of the relevant councils on the local budget for a given year by a single line of at least half a percent of the budget’s expenditure. This is not an indicator taken from the ceiling. It is calculated based on the number of young families in line for housing, the projected amount of funding for the State Programme for Youth Housing, the State Programme for Youth Housing for 2002-2012 and the estimated cost of housing. The implementation of the regulations requires adequate expenditure at the expense of the State budget and is proposed in preparation for the second reading and second reading of the bill to change the date of entry into force of the Act to the first January 2008, the following year. Accordingly, the expenditure provided for by the bill should be taken into account in the preparation of the 2008 State Budget Project. The committee considered the bill on issues of family, youth policy, sports, and tourism. I took it that the project was completed in accordance with the Supreme Council's draft decree, and the Supreme Council's mandate was carried out by the drafters of the bill. Many other comments have also been taken into account. And the committee is proposing to adopt today's draft Ukrainian Housing Act. And the general conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority is that the bill can be adopted in the first reading, taking into account observations and suggestions. Of course, there's still work to be done in the bill, and I think we're still going to work on it seriously in preparing for the second reading, and we're going to take into account all the wishes that have come to it. It is now proposed that this bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u28	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, 10 minutes. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u29	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Evgeny Vasilevich, a very good bill in the sense that it truly covers this problem from all sides. But I read it carefully and, for example, I did not understand how the preference would be given to young families or young people who would ask for either a long-term loan or a government subsidy. We understand that subsidies are more beneficial, they are non-refundable State aid. I believe that the law should clearly prescribe and grant subsidies to those categories that the State needs. They're young professionals who go to work in the village, let's say, medicine and so on. Nevertheless, the law must give priority because the subsidy is of course more beneficial. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u30	Of course, priority will be given in granting subsidies to families who are underprivileged, those to whom even credit is not in their pocket. With regard to the more detailed provision, you are right not to have it in the bill. Why? Because it has been determined that the Government's Youth Housing Programme, in force for 2002-2012 under the Cabinet's decree, is the Cabinet of Ministers, which annually determines the amount of funding and, in addition, article 10 of the Ukrainian Act on Promoting the Social Development and Development of Young People in Ukraine provides that the way in which concessional loans are granted to young families and their concessional repayment is determined by Kabmin. That is, we define framework provisions here by law, which are fundamental. This has been defined in more detail by Kabmin in accordance with existing legislation. Although it is more possible that when we prepare for second reading, we will take your proposal into account and try to detail it in some way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u31	Jarochuk Volodymir. Please, Dutch Boris Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u32	Please pass the word to Pecklusenko Alexandre Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u33	Turn on the Pecklace microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u34	Hell-bent, faction of the Regions. First of all, I would like to thank you and all the colleagues who have participated in the drafting of this law for a very important law. Almost 30 per cent of the voters for our receptions come with this problem. But I would like to support my colleague Alexandrowski for the fact that we and our constituents need specifics. First. Criteria on which criteria will be issued: Who first ran? That's not what you said in your statement. Second, categories. Most of all, we are concerned about categories: children of orphans, children with disabilities. How will this be taken into account? In the territories. Rural area. If we don't kill this program in the countryside, we'll lose the village. The city simply cannot accommodate those who want to flee the village. That's why it's the main question. What segment are we closing from the queue, how much is needed from the budget to date and for the future?I believe that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u35	Thank you for asking. I think that, in preparing the draft bill for the second reading, we will try to detail this provision in order to remove, indeed, the issues that arise and specify the categories and modalities of presentation, the category of borrowers, and the manner in which these loans are granted, the order and so on. I think it's a significant observation, we'll try to refine it in preparation for second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u36	Sergey Kaltsev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u37	Please pass the word to Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u38	Who? One more time, Paklusenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u39	Colleague, I see your dissatisfaction with my own answers. You realize that's not the answer. I would therefore still like to address this situation in the most thorough manner. I will work with you and a number of my colleagues actively in the second phase. And I ask you now to let the whole country hear that the problem of children with disabilities, the problem of orphans, the problem of rural youth in this law will be a priority.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u40	Of course it is. I'll explain the ideology. Initially, the ideology of the entire State programme and the law that we have drafted, it supports this ideology, is based on supporting the demographic situation in Ukraine and providing first and foremost. Allowing families with children in particular to stimulate fertility. You know how catastrophic the situation in the country is right now. This provides for concessional provisions for repayment of loans, concessional rates depending on the presence of children. And there are many families here. Well, there are priorities for them. With regard to the other categories that you have addressed, there are other laws that regulate this, in fact, the relevant laws for them. Here we are primarily talking about many children's families and about many children's families, these are the provisions. While, of course, once again, for second reading, we have some adjustments if there are specific proposals from the people's deputies and from you, it will certainly be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u41	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u42	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Eugene Vasilovich, there is no, let's say, thank you for saying that, in the end, maybe this bill will be adopted in the first reading. And certainly, the President will not go against the young, either, because in his own time the young supported him. Perhaps he will refuse the promise or nonadmission of draft laws that are adopted in the Ukrainian Parliament. So I wanted to ask you this next question. Please tell me in 2005 or in the preparation of this bill, how much has been allocated in 2005 to support youth housing, and in 2006, and how have these budgetary purposes been implemented? Do you have such statistics that we can analyze, say, radio audiences?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u43	Thank you for asking. Unfortunately, there are indeed difficulties in allocating funds to this programme in recent years. Indeed, last year has proved to be, and the 2006 budget, which was developed in previous Governments, has proved to be one of the weakest in the youth housing programme, and almost no new loans have been issued, a measurable amount, since the decline occurred in previous years. Moreover, interest was even due to those young families who had paid partial compensation. It was only at the end of the year that the new Government was able to begin to address the problem. And now the debt has actually been eliminated. But in preparation for the 2006 budget, it can be said that this was one of the worst budgets for youth in providing youth with housing, these concessional loans. And this is a black year in a youth housing loan scheme.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u44	Please, Gnatenko Lev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u45	I have two questions for you. First question. To obtain credit, young people need to have their jobs. Is this how this bill is today linked to the first job guarantee for our young people? And the second question. This. I spoke about the collapse of all social and economic development programmes in the Ministry of Defence today. All social programmes are being disrupted because of the political situation we are in. I think it is necessary to explain to young people today that if we do not calm our country down and bring it into economic stability, this beautiful programme that the Supreme Council is adopting today will be a disaster. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u46	Yes, I think you can only agree on the second issue because, of course, all socio-economic programmes, and this one, we heard yesterday's presentation by the First Vice Prime Minister, could all be threatened, and the sustainability of the programme. And I want to say that stability is particularly important here, because often young families, when they contract with banks and under a partial housing compensation programme, expect that the State will compensate them for those interest rates, and that requires monthly stable funding from the budget. If funding delays begin, as was unfortunately the case last year, families are in a terrible situation, because then banks have the right to claim interest and the principal amount of credit, and young people do not have such money because they rely on the support of the State to be. Therefore, if this crisis persists, I think that this programme may be at risk of collapse as well as young families who do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u47	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. It was also a report as the author and a report from the committee. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please register with the factions. Yes, from the MPs, if they're willing. For Catherine of Simeon wants to have a word. All right, have a word. Yeah, let's do 15 minutes. Please, Bulba Stepan. Does Melniczuk pass it on to you? From the Melniczuk faction, please. Get ready for Samilak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u48	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, TV sets, radio audiences, media representatives. In the end, Parliament was given a bill that Eugeny Vasilovich Filindash worked on, and today we are discussing a very important issue. Of course, the bill contains, let's say, a series of positions that will be in principle to be implemented by the Cabinet of Ministers. There is no doubt that the Cabinet of Ministers will support this direction, for example, those articles that will be directed to support young people’s construction, and not only that. We understand how difficult this is for young people today. We understand whether it's around Kiev or around other Ukrainian cities where, say, it's virtually impossible for a young family to buy housing if it even worked for, say, 30-40 years. She couldn't make a living like that. Therefore, the state today should take steps to meet young people, not in words, but in action. Not in words, as it was in 2005, because, personally, as a national deputy to me from Bukovina, many young families were addressing me, I couldn't help because I had practically recorded a figure of 20 to 30 million bracelets, and I didn't understand how it was distributed, let's say in the regions or how the Cabinet of Ministers was working on it in 2005, 2006. We have an opportunity with you, honourable national deputies, and there is no doubt that the faction of the Socialist Party, such as, let's say, the author of the bill is Filindash, we will support its acceptance in the first reading. I would like to say, from the high court of Parliament, to address both Mr. President and Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko, and Mr. Lucenka, who is very much dependent on young people. Please contact the deputies of your factions, let them return to the hall, and don't let Mr. President impose, say, a veto on this law or not approach it at all. Because it's his constitutional right to do, let's say, step in with the young. And Julia Volodymyrna Timoshenko, who loves young people very much, let her return her deputies. If there's any, let's say, a fencing in the President's Office, when Baloga says that we need to get these documents back to Parliament, he'll back us up in that direction so that we can, say, put in the place of those officials who don't respect or don't understand that the Supreme Council is working and working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u49	Thank you. Please, Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Prepare Michael Chechtchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u50	I'll tell you, Mikhail Vasilovich, why you couldn't understand how the money was being distributed. Because after taking office as head of government, Julia Volodymyrna expelled all Ukrainian national deputies from the observation board so that there was no parliamentary control, and distributed them as she felt necessary. And so far, Eugene will tell you, we have letters written to us. And so far, percentages have not been returned to their young families; they have been pushed to pieces, but they have not been returned. Dear colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies, the Government of National Unity, and our coalition are looking to the future today, so we are considering a very important issue that relates to the very basic issue of providing a young family, Alla Alexandrovna, a young family, a young family home. And I want to tell you, this program, we've been working on it for 10 years. We've seen the flaws that we have in this government program. And we counted them in this bill. We know that no young family is able to pay the first contribution, for wages are low, and sometimes for God’s sake, they are not even available. So we introduced the concept of a subsidy, a targeted subsidy from the local budget of the young family, so that the young family could pay their first contribution. And the local council also cares about the future of its village, the city, the district center, fortifying this young man to his own region. We have foresaw, indeed, benefits for young people. Because today, I think it's our young people who need the benefits. And so in order to solve the demographic situation, we predicted the lowest percentage, we predicted 25 percent of the total payout if the baby was born. If two kids are another 25 percent. But this is a real state approach, but this is the view of our government, our coalition in the future of our nation. I'll give you the last number. All who have benefited from government loans have at least three children in the family. Because we were able to interest young families, give birth to children. And I think that, really, let the young listen to us, who cares about her, who cares about them, who cares for them to have the main issue solved, so that there's a roof over their head. The faction supports it as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u51	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Mikhailo Chechetov, “Regions” faction, followed by Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u52	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, we are indeed considering a very important social bill today. And it's important to millions of young people. The author seeks to address the very complex issue of establishing a mechanism for providing affordable housing for Ukrainian citizens, including the bill defining the legal, economic, social, and organisational principles of public funding and the targeted long-term lending of young families and single young citizens of Ukraine. Without denying the provision of affordable housing for Ukrainian citizens, it also points to the following, well, I fully agree with the suggestions and comments made by my colleague Alexander Mikolaiovich Pecklesenka, and will have to be taken into account when working on the second reading procedure. Which, according to article 10 of the project and paragraph 7 of the explanatory note, the source of the financial resources for housing lending is the cost of state and local budgets and their volume for the corresponding year should be at least 0.5 per cent of the total expenditure corresponding to the budget. This proposal does not comply with article 95, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of Ukraine, which defines exclusively the State Budget Act any expenditure incurred by the State on the common needs, size and purpose of the expenditure. In this connection, it was suggested that the law should be introduced on January 1. But I have another proposal. I think that if the President of the country, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, listens to the proposal of the Coalition of National Unity and to the proposals of millions of people who want to restore stability and tranquillity to the country, if he repeals his decree and sits at the round table with the Prime Minister, the Supreme Council, the leaders of political parties, and finds a solution for the country of political stalemate, it will enable us not to tear the economy down from the path of sustainable economic growth, but experience has shown that we have made an additional 7.5 billion griven in the first quarter, which the Government has already decided in March, and which has led to higher pensions and salaries. So there will be stabilization. stability will return, and this will indeed ensure the dynamic growth of the economy and the development of additional financial resources. I think that as a result of the second quarter, this resource will be received and we can successfully adjust the budget and introduce it not as of next year, but can indeed, from the second half of the year, introduce the bill. So I am again addressing Victor Andreevich Yushchenko: Victor Andreevich, the key to providing housing for young people this year, in your hands. Return stability and tranquillity to the country, millions of people are asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u53	Thank you. Stepan Bulba, please prepare for Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u54	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Poltavian. In 2006, last year, the population of the Poltava region decreased by almost 16,000. In fact, the population of one of the 25 districts of the region disappeared. And so it will continue until we create a normal environment for young people who want to live properly, who want to have children, because children are the future, of course, for the family, but also for Ukraine. This bill is extremely important because it improves housing conditions, that is, the solution to the housing problem for young people. I am confident that we will accept him in the first reading. But I think it would be appropriate, and I propose it as a bill to publish it in our newspaper, the Voice of Ukraine. Why? In order for young people, public organizations, to become involved primarily in its improvement. Because the comments that have been made today tell us that there is still room to work on it. And let's take this opportunity. And I want to say one more thing. Of course, all problems can be solved only in a stable, politically stable state. And I want people to finally, our voters to understand that those who want stability, those who want to solve people's problems, are in the room today, and they find every opportunity to work for the state, for the benefit of our nation, for our people. Those who want another are rallying, blocking the work of state institutions, and we need to understand that too. I want to say one more thing. I think it's worth writing in this law, of course, the rights of orphans young people, of those children who don't have no parents, because they're the first to face the biggest challenges. In addition, it would be wise for us to clarify the benefits for young specialists, graduates of state colleges, who are required to go to work where they are needed by society. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u55	Thank you. Please, Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction will support the bill. You all know he's very useful. It really regulates a very serious issue in our State and seeks to address demographic problems. However, I would like to draw attention to some of the illogicalities in this law that will have to be removed from work and prepared for second reading. I have already said that it is necessary to specify more specifically who we will give priority to in granting a public address subsidy. Here my colleague Bulba has just said that it may be necessary to consider that young professionals who will be assigned to the public service should receive such support. And from this point of view, the law rightly refers very much to the regulation of the Cabinet of Ministers, because agrarian policies will have to be implemented without a village where new jobs will appear, and there will be a need for new professionals, including medical professionals and teachers, and so on, and then these categories of people will have to grant these subsidies, that is, those loans, that is, give preference to young families with children, precisely those categories that will be needed by the State at the moment. I therefore believe that these provisions must be specified in the law on the one hand, and on the other hand, I think what functions, what programmes of the State must be approved by the Government in order to be able to implement the provisions of this law. Which is a little bit of a contradiction here, which I think is easily eliminated. It is the provision of a targeted grant, which is in fact the material support of families. It must be pointed out that these are poor families or certain families that need State support. It also states that an address subsidy may be directed towards the repayment of the loan received. Thus, for those families that will have three or more children, this subsidy will be provided at 30 per cent of the cost of housing, i.e. a real 30 per cent loan. However, where credit is concerned, it is stated that the State repays credit to those families who will have three or more children of 50 per cent of the loan granted. That is, the loan is granted, 50 per cent of the value of the loan is repaid by the State and 30 per cent of the subsidy. Let's think about these rules, and I think we need to agree on them. The law is interesting, the law is needed by our young people, but of course everyone must understand that it will be possible to implement it if the budget is actually filled, which means that Ukraine's economic development and the necessary condition is, of course, political stability. Therefore, the representatives of the orange factions who are torpedoing Ukraine's economic development today are preventing Parliament from working, including preventing young people from making their lives better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u57	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Everyone unanimously defined the need to adopt such a bill, and it is clear that when this project becomes a law, I have no doubt that the government, the coalition of national unity will find the opportunity to finance the implementation of this law, and we ourselves will give any little hope to those young families, to those young people who, without any doubt, will no doubt be supported by the State, much of them will completely lose any hope of obtaining housing. I propose to support a friendly proposal, to vote in favour of the first reading of Bill 1074, namely the Youth Housing Act. Please vote. [[11:35:22]] For 252 The Law was adopted in the first reading. I'd like to ask a committee of profile, taking into account the proposals of the scientific and export administration and those statements that colleagues in the discussion and asking questions that have sounded here, to take into account and prepare it expeditiously so that we can address the Cabinet of Ministers and I'm not excluding that here, as colleagues have said, that perhaps even we can get it into effect from the second half of this year. The factions? Let's do the factions. I think that's clear enough. Factions: Region Party – 181, Block Timoshenko – 11, Our Ukraine – 5, Socialist Party – 27, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 7. We have the next bill proposed to consider a reduced procedure. Please support such an offer. Vote. [[11:36:38]] For 251 The decision is supported. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology Development is under consideration. It's a government bill. He will report to the First Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Andry Mikolayovich. [[Bill number 3284]] Get ready for the head of the Samuels Committee. Please
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u58	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft law is designed to review the priorities of science and technology development and to improve the efficiency of budgetary funding in the implementation of priorities and to ensure transparency and efficiency of government administration. The adoption of the bill will allow alignment with the time frame of the budget process for the creation of a list of state-owned science and science and technology programmes, which is very important in shaping the budgetary process. In order to ensure that science and technology development priorities are effectively implemented, the law proposes to establish as a consultative body with the central executive body in the field of education and science, the Coordinating Council for the Priorities of Science and Technology. And it's also supposed to give new priorities to science and technology by 2017, that's 10 years, that's what's called long-term priorities. And the short-term priorities will be the Cabinet of Ministers to be approved every five years on the basis of a broad discussion with the scientific community, the participation of the National Academy of Sciences, the sectoral academics, and so forth. In our view, the adoption of the law will ensure the legal, organizational, and financial systems of principles for the formation and implementation of priorities. The law is consistent with the trend of adopting similar laws in the developed world. It will certainly strengthen the innovative impact of fundamental and applied science on economic development. It will help reorient the science and technology to produce the completion of innovation and increase the scientific value of our internal gross product. This will increase the pace and extent of the introduction of new scientific developments into our country's economy. The Ministry of the Soviets and Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u59	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Catherine Semenovna Samoylik, head of the Committee on Science and Education of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u60	Thank you. Dear colleagues! I want to remind you that under the orange rule, the financing of science has doubled. And for the first time in this year, the government of national unity has foreseen almost a billion dollars for innovative projects. It's never been like this before. As far as the program's concerned. We have, of course, considered this program, put forward a number of observations that concern, above all, not the very clear specificity of the three priorities that we are offered, we do not see the role of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, the role of the sectoral academics, the leading universities of our country and so forth. We have very serious comments about this bill. And that's why the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education decided not to take this matter any longer, because for 2007, the previous government failed to give us priority in science. And these 700 million depend, we can't use them for innovation projects, for a breakthrough in science. And so our committee is proposing, despite the imperfections of the draft bill to be adopted in the first reading, and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has taken a decision by creating a working group, which has been joined by representatives of the National Academy of Sciences, the branches of science, the leading universities of our country, leading scientists to further these priorities in our science. And I think the situation is stabilizing, and we can make use of this year's budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u61	Allow me to say 15 words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u62	Yeah, 15 words. And the general comment to our home ministry, please, I ask Andrija Mikolaiovich, is that such documents should be treated more responsibly. But we're working together.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u63	Well, four of them took the words. Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Two "for", two "against", green, red buttons, I remind you not to be charged with not being recorded. Yes, please, Dutch Boris Davidovich is active today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u64	Please pass the word to Pecklusenko Alexandre Nikolaevich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u65	Hell-bent Alexander. Melniczuk is next. Murderer's on you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u66	Adam Ivanovich, I believe the law is very important, but I share the comments made by my previous colleague. Indeed, this law must be designed and directed to create a group of people who know the issues of society, the country, the industry and who will be able to challenge science. These tasks will be implemented for public money. That's very good. We will support science, we will necessarily support directions, but the whole question is where this money is going to go. If we, Adam Ivanovich, ask how much we are given a week, a month, books, books, and bookstores that are issued for government money, these funds will also go to the wind and to the pipe. I therefore believe that, with the comments made by my colleague Sameilik, we must take this law seriously and consider by name who will, perhaps even this group of people who will enter there, consider at least the relevant committee. The most important thing is that these are people who know the pressing problems of society, production, human beings.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u67	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I cannot agree that the state publishes many books. Unfortunately, these are not state editions. What you're talking about. Please, Mordecai Leonid.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u68	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Our faction will support this bill, because it's a matter of honour for our faction over the past few years, because our representative has led the Committee on the Development of Science and Education, and today he is the head of the Ministry. That's the first one. Secondly, in fact, the need for the development and adoption of such a complex, forward-looking strategic programme, science development has long been ripe. Particularly likely today is the problem of focusing attention on applied science. on fundamental applied scientific research and here is a combination of course both academic, sectoral science and university science. But the development of science today is not possible without the updating of our scientific personnel. Preparation of higher-skilled specialists. Over the past 15 years, we have had a process of braking with the preparation of higher-skilled scientific personnel. Today, there is no secret that, for example, among doctors of science and professors, the average age is over 60 years. But in recent years, the trend has changed for the better. And science goes to young people today, and they want to develop science. I think that this program will contribute to the updating of our science and, in fact, the introduction of a scientific and innovative approach to the development of our national economy and the whole social, cultural sphere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u69	Thank you. Matthew wants to go against the law. Please. I'll take it from here. I'll take it from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u70	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Yes, really, I've been thinking about how to vote, but I've come to the conclusion that today's consideration of this bill is once again one of the lines of confirmation of the sequence of action of our coalition, the coalition of national unity, and the government that we have formed. And they are aimed at solving the acute problems facing the state today, aimed at improving the lives of our citizens. But unfortunately, in discussing such important bills, the issues that are being addressed today by the supreme legislative organ of the Perlament State are not taking part in the national MPs from the so-called opposition that their leaders are now involved in another adventure -- an attempt to bring about a repugnant anti-State coup. I don't think they're going to make it, and we talked about it this morning, and we said it in particular in our statement from the parliamentary faction of Communists. As far as the proposed bill is concerned, I think it will ensure that science and technology development priorities are effectively implemented. Therefore, the proposed establishment of an advisory body with the Central Executive Authority, a coordinating board with the priorities of science and technology development, will serve to address these acute problems that are so critical today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u71	Thank you. The discussion is over, Your Honor, we will be determined. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the need to adopt this law is dictated on the one hand and the importance of the topic, and on the other hand, technical problems, because the relevant law on priority science and technology has ceased to exist in 2006. So we have to keep going so that we don't stop, we don't fuck around. And so the Cabinet of Ministers came up with a proposal to enact the law by 2017. There's no doubt that we have to take into account the thoughts that the active involvement of the Academy of Sciences and the active involvement of industry specialists, because there are whole areas, adaptations and so on, military defence complex that doesn't include either the Ministry of Science or the Academy of Science, but science is developing quite seriously. To think about whether a rule should be written in the law that is not the norm of law in order for the Ministry to create another organ. It's the Ministry's right. Whatever he wants, let him create as many organs as he wants, it's not a rule of law, council, or whatever he calls it, it's the Ministry's right. But despite our critical comments, we were all in the same position that such a law was necessary. I therefore urge you to support the first reading of Bill 3284 on Change to the Ukrainian Law on Priorities for Science and Technology. Please vote. [[11:50:41]] For 246 Copy that. We need to include in the agenda and take a decision Bill number 3144 – Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws, the Scoobenko Bill, the BUT faction. [[on the release of information on radioactive pollution zones]] Please be supportive. Vote. [[11:51:18]] For 244 A decision has been made. Please invite the head of the committee on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Michael Danilín. What's the committee's opinion, because the author is ignoring a meeting of the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Draft Law 3144 in accordance with article 10 of the Law on the Legal Regime of Territories Contaminated by the Chernobyl Disaster, the Cabinet of Ministers is obliged to provide the people with the necessary information on the radiation contamination of those territories that have been contaminated as such since the Chernobyl disaster. The basis of the bill was that the law had not previously structured the periodicity of the publication of such information and that it should indicate to those bodies which were required to do so. This bill provides exactly the periodicity of the publication of this information every three years. To date, these territories have not had such information for five years. There is a specific mandate for the Cabinet of Ministers to do so with a three-year frequency. We have about 1,500 settlements in Ukraine that have been contaminated and, depending on the different levels, the number of these settlements varies: where up to 0.5 millilitres. It's about 410, from 0.5 to 1 millisivert a year. It's, if you say it in plain language, it's the fourth zone. And only 202 settlements where this is more than one. Thus, in principle, there was no comment on the bill. Therefore, our committee proposes to support this bill and to adopt it as a basis for first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Are there willing discussions? Two "for", two "against" – write down. Yes, please, Kovalevska. Get ready for Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, present. This project proposes that citizens be provided once every three years with information on the number of population sites that are allocated to radioactive pollution zones. In this regard, it should be noted that the census of the population of the radioactive pollution zones was approved by Kabmin of July 23, 2001, number 106. This list includes 2,293 settlements. As a valid legal act, the list is published in official publications and on the site of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The population of the population now includes 2,139 dosimetric passports. Data on annual dosimetric passporting of population sites related to radioactive pollution zones, as well as information on the content of radionuclei in milk and local production potatoes, are available in the form of the “General Dosimetric Passporting of Ukrainian population sites affected by radioactivity after the Chernobyl disaster”, approved by the Ministry of Health and the Harmonized Ministry of Health and the Ukrainian NHRI. In accordance with the requirements of article 2 of the Ukrainian Law of 27 February 1991, “On the legal regime of the territory that has been exposed to radioactive pollution as a result of the Chernobyl disaster”, the collection is sent to interested central executive authorities and authorities to publish them in the local press, which gives the population living in radioactively contaminated areas free access to information on the state of the environment and the dose of radiation. In recent years, collections have been posted on MNS sites. However, maps of the radioactive contamination of Ukraine’s territory in the form of printed and electronic atlas in 2001 were passed on to the governments of 12 areas to which the territory was assigned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u75	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u76	pollution and central district libraries. In this way, the bill confused the two notions of “a list of population sites assigned to radioactive pollution zones” and “a list of population sites. In which dosimetric passporting is carried out.” Based on the above, and taking into account the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, this bill needs to be finalized, it can only be adopted in the first reading. Please accept as a basis in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u77	Thank you, Julia Sergiyevna. Please, Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u78	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, radio audiences, television audiences! I don't know if this is where my colleague Danieline was speaking, whether he's on the committee, let's say some data or information on the urban speech of Uzhgrad, who informed society that Mr. Baloga's time in Zakarpatta had made a nuclear trash dump, whether he was somewhere or not. But since I didn't have the opportunity to ask, I would ask Danilino to ask on behalf of the Committee to make an official request to the Attorney General's Office. The faction will support the bill. Well, I'd like, dear colleagues, distinguished voters, to contact you with the following. Today’s “surface ” under the walls of the Constitutional Court has finally made it clear what the real plan is for those who call themselves opposition politicians in relation to independent judicial authority. It turns out that their demonstrated willingness to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, as adopted in the rule of law, was only a bluff, a lie by voters and international experts who see a democratic state in Ukraine. After all 18 judges attended the first meeting of the Constitutional Court, demonstrating their willingness not to smell the Constitution but to follow its standards, it became clear that the decision of the Constitutional Court was not in favour of the organizers of the coup d’état. They immediately changed tactics – they asked the President to trim the disobedient judges, block the court's work. Until Yushchenko succumbed to these provocations, realizing that following the will of the leader of BUT would turn him from head of state into an adaptation of the timoshenko sect. But a more dangerous delay in the President's political process.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u80	There's something The open ignorance of the 6th article of the Constitution, since the representatives of BUT and “Our Ukraine” and the Self-Defense have made it clear that even after the constitutional decision was taken by the Constitutional Court, they will not support or implement any decision. That's not surprising. An example of a spitting-out attitude toward the court was presented by the President of the country himself, who calls the court decisions no different than a show if they differ with his concept of morality. In what other state does the President allow himself to interfere openly with the work of the Constitutional Court? This is happening today in Ukraine. Such actions by the guarantor of the Constitution inspired his followers to take even more cynical steps. What happened if the leader of the opposition argued on a bottle of cognac with his former associate, who would bribe the judges of the Constitutional Court. And when this plan endures a failed fiasco, it throws its own zombie worshipers under the walls of the Constitutional Court, blocking the work of the court. This can be called hysteria and agony at the same time, as it has become clear that it has not been possible to bribe justice in “Madame Wheaton”; perhaps cognac is not enough. It was not possible to force Judge Stanic to make a self - reparation, even though it was a dirty compromise. The very responsibilities of the head of the BSS have been included in the implementation of the political order. And today there is information that the President has commissioned the SNB to take Henprocuror Medvedzk away so that he does not interfere with the court’s case. The Zacarpathian mob, seated in the secretariat, is actually seeking to destroy justice in Ukraine, demanding the resignation of disgruntled judges, the replacement of prosecutors. If this goes on, the President may dismiss the people who do not want to support him or the rest of his yellow-hot squad. The time has come to stop this sect, which thinks not of Ukraine, but of the canonization of Lady Yu as the first person of the state, and does not despise any means of achieving this goal. I'm done, Adam Ivanovich. Otherwise, the country will find itself at the brink of division, and the leader of BUT will not stop at anything. That is why we demand that the President abide by the law, respect the Constitution and the court, remember that we live in a state of law, not in a pasture, not in the house of Timoshenko, where plans for coups are planned. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u81	Well, we will consider, since pollution is now around the Constitutional Court, it was on the subject of the law under discussion. It's a simplified procedure. Dinner, one minute, please. What suggestions? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I just have an addition to this law. The law has to be adopted in a mandatory manner, but here we need to complement where the project's objectives and objectives are, we have some nudity figures. This is a systematization of figures every three years. But what we need to add is why we do it. We are working to reduce the incidence of radioactivity in these areas. It is imperative that the people know the consequences of the radioactive zone. That's why I'm asking you to turn it on. It's on first reading, isn't it, Adam Ivanovich? If this is on first reading, it has to be included.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u83	In the first reading, we can't include anything, so we're offering a second reading. Danilin, please, a minute, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u84	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Danilin Nikolai, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. I would like to emphasize that the basis of this law, which we will now adopt, is the implementation of article 50 of the Ukrainian Constitution that every citizen has the right to receive reliable information. It is this bill that establishes that every citizen, particularly in the polluted territory, will have the right to receive information about the territory in which he lives and how the dose is located to date. And about the Zacarpathian line. Our committee in Zacarpatya was, uh, there was a visiting meeting. And I want to say that the premix was taken to Zacarpatya when Baloga was the head of the administration. And when he was the Minister of Emergency, he did not take any steps to eliminate all of this. And only after the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u85	Thank you. Question completed. Let's be clear. I would like to support in the first reading a bill under number 3144 amending some of the laws of Ukraine regarding the release of information on radioactive pollution zones. Please vote. [[12:05:10]] For 249 249, the law was adopted as a basis for the first reading. Dear colleagues! We have two ratifications left, I suggest we not take a break, consider these two bills, and then go to the committee. Is there no objection? Let's go to the ratification section. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on technical and financial cooperation is under consideration. [[Registration number 0066]] Report to Deputy Minister of Economy Sluzarenko Oksana Alexandrovna, please. Mother Vitalia Ivanovich prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The proposed bill ratified the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on Technical and Financial Cooperation, signed on November 9, 2006, in Copenhagen. Under the Agreement, the Danish side provides financial assistance, material resources, technical assistance and educational opportunities to the Ukrainian side. The provisions of the Treaty provide for tax benefits, duty exemptions, congregations and other preferences for Danish staff in the implementation of international technical assistance projects. Goods supplied by the Danish side. For the relevant project under the agreement, or they will be supplied under special contracts, they will be exempt by the Ukrainian side from payment of any taxes, including duties and other compulsory payments. Such positions are in full harmony with the international practice of receiving technical assistance to the recipient country. Similar benefits are foreseen by the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark on Assistance in the Energy Program, which takes into account environmental protection aspects ratified by the Supreme Council on March 5, 98. The bill is designed to ensure that internal procedures for the acquisition of validity are implemented by a treaty that establishes legal and administrative rules for the implementation of technical assistance projects by the Kingdom of Denmark in Ukraine. Thus, ratification will, firstly, contribute to the development of a forward-looking direction of Ukrainian technical cooperation, not only in the energy field, but also allow for the inclusion of technical assistance in other areas. Secondly, it will enable legal regulation of issues related to the granting by the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark of the Government of Ukraine of financial assistance. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u87	Thank you, Oksana Alexandrovna. No questions? Have a seat, please. Vitaly Ivanovich Mikeo, Secretary of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u88	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Committee of Industrial and Regulatory Policy. The committee has considered this law, will support it, given that it has been supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There is the conclusion of a scientific and technical office, and we believe that such agreements are necessary for Ukraine and allow them to work actively with other countries. The committee supports this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Can I put it to a vote? I would like to vote on the proposal to ratify the agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Kingdom of Denmark. [[12:09:16]] For 245 Decision taken. Registration number 0059. Draft Law on Ratification of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants It's either a proposal or a draft president or a draft law. The committee on environmental policy, environmental management, the elimination of the Blackwater disaster's legacy has information on this. Igor Lisov, please. Lisov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u90	Honorable Chairman, Honorable Colleagues, Honorable Members of the Government. The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollution, proposed for ratification, aims to protect human health and the environment from persistent organic pollutants. It is aimed at reducing the use and further eliminating the first 20 toxic persistent organic pollutants. The creation of a system to select new candidates for the list of persistent organic pollutants that will be identified as hazardous to human health and the environment, the preparation of proposals to prevent these hazardous substances from being present in the environment. The stability and mobility of the SOS have led to their worldwide distribution. The concentration of these chemicals is many times higher than the background levels, including in the human body. The consequences are inborn defects, the risk of oncosa, and the impairment of human immune and reproductive systems. The Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants came into force on May 17, 2004, and 152 countries, including Ukraine, signed the Stockholm Convention. Today, 144 countries are parties to this convention. The adoption of this law is urgent for Ukraine, considering the presence in Ukraine of a large number of hazardous chemicals that refer to persistent organic pollutants. The measures to be taken in Ukraine to meet the requirements of the Stockholm Convention will be based on the establishment of valid laws of Ukraine and its regulations, as well as a number of normative and methodological acts of ministries and offices. In accordance with the article of the seventh convention for two years after the convention has become valid for the party ratifying it, this party develops its implementation plan and submits it for approval by the conference of the parties. To date, direct financial commitments, including measures, are not foreseen. There is also no provision for contributions to the convention bodies. The national measures required to achieve the Stockholm Convention’s goal, according to the estimated national and international experts, require a total funding of 950 million dollars during the 2007 -28 years. That's about $180 million. Not less than half of this amount is expected at the expense of international investment. At the same time, for the past 10 years, Ukraine has been taking steps to limit the presence of persistent organic pollutants in the environment. Most of these are funded by the state budget of Ukraine. Yes, over 15 million dollars were planned from the 2006 budget for these purposes and were implemented. The ratification of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants will confirm Ukraine’s consistency in addressing global environmental problems related to the circulation of hazardous chemicals and allow Ukraine to access significant additional financial resources, such as the global environmental fund, in accordance with article 13 of the Convention. In order to implement measures aimed at reducing or eliminating hazardous chemicals and wastes from a group of persistent organic pollutants of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on European Integration, the Committee on Budget Affairs, the Committee on Legal Policy support the bill. The Committee on Environmental Policy on Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster supported the draft Ukrainian law on the ratification of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u91	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? I have this question: tell me, will ratification of this document or will it improve our order of entry into Ukraine of various toxic and questionable materials? Well, for example, I've got a couple of phone calls on my desk right now about some politicians being influenced by a huge amount of waste and it's all slowing down because no one's actually looking at it. Does Ukraine take on the obligation of information from other countries about the availability of such substances, about the measures they are taking, about the commitments they are making or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u92	Thank you for asking, Alexander Alexandrovich. Persistent organic pollutants include three groups of pollutants, which are pesticides, where 8 are intended. Then industrial chemicals and a group of dioxins. They are fully controlled by all relevant authorities, especially the Ministry of Ecology, on the movement and whereabouts of Ukraine. Every year these pollutants are inventoryed, and for today, for information, there are about 8,400 tons of pesticides in our country that are in four thousand rooms, 30 percent of which are not in keeping. So this is an urgent problem for us. With regard to imports from other countries, crossing borders is absolute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u93	Let me finish my answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u94	All precautions have been taken to ensure that no known organic pollutants are imported into our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u95	Yeah, any more questions? Write down who wants to ask questions. I asked because I realized that no one was asking, and the reporter wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u96	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u97	No, no, wait, wait. He's still asking for Kirichenko and Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u98	It's a faction of regions, Pecklusenko. In general, we understand your report and we welcome the approaches outlined in your report. However, I would like to extend the question of Alexander Alexandrovich: there is probably a part of the infection that falls on Ukraine that does not fall on the three lists. If you don't know what I doubt, you understand very well what this is about, let's say, the same cipher was meant by Alexander Alexandrovich, and today in Europe it is decided that these materials should be exported from Europe. But from Europe, again, where? Europe. Ukraine is Europe. Therefore, how this law will affect specific material and other toxic materials, which are unfortunately being used today by Ukraine as a landfill, for them, for the countries of Central and Western Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u99	Thank you for asking. We are talking to you about the Stockholm Convention, which entered into force on 17 May 2004. Under this convention, only three categories of known species are classified as persistent organics. Thus far, they have been formed into 12 toxic persistent organic pollutants. It's about us tracking. If we ratify the Stockholm Convention, then we'll get enough money. I told you that we need a programme of 980 million bracelets to get rid of what is in Ukraine today until 2028. Thus, if we enter this convention, the budget in 2006 allocated 15 million to the implementation of the problem under this convention. If we enter, we will be completely in the territory by 2028.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u100	Kirichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u101	Thank you very much. Kirichenko, faction of the Regions. I understand that this is indeed a very serious problem for Ukraine, because we all face, especially when we work in the districts, the fact that there are a lot of toxic substances left that we do not know that have a strong impact on human health. From here on out, we have a huge number of people who suffer from outstanding diseases. That is why, in my view, this is a very serious situation for Ukraine. The ratification of the Convention must be supported. But my question was practically about funding the budget. Because what you're saying is 15 million, in my opinion, is a miserable thing, and there's no way that it can cover the costs that it really takes to now, so to speak, at least in some way establish the destruction of these toxic wastes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. Sophia Pavlovna, I would like to say the following. A sufficient amount of equipment and laboratory material is needed to destroy persistent organic pollutants. Last year, 10 million, without fifteen, were spent on the establishment of a special laboratory, which would determine more qualitative methods for the destruction of those pollutants that are now known by the twelfth, and are not classified as 12 of us, that is, those that need to be combated. Therefore, I think that we must first of all establish a normal base that could reshape and destroy those pollutants that exist today. So I absolutely accept, I support your question, and I think that this will be one of the tasks of our committee to develop the right policy in order not to stretch this programme until 2028, but to reduce it significantly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u103	Please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u104	Thank you. Igor Volodymyrovich, well I want to draw your attention and attention to our voters that this bill was introduced by the President of Ukraine despite all the difficulties that he has encountered with the decree, and I think he is not an enemy to either the Ukrainian people or his country, so his proposal to ratify the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants is saying that there is still hope that Ukraine has not yet died. I'm not going to talk about the funds that need to be allocated. Of course, we will find them because health is not just our own but that of future generations. I have a question for you about this bill. Please tell me what monitoring system is envisaged for Ukraine's compliance with the Stockholm Convention requirements? Who in the world, Europe, and Ukraine are monitoring this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u105	Well, for today it is as follows. So the Ministry of Ecology is constantly monitoring those pollutants that we have today, the conditions for saving them, their numbers. I mean, today. And all this information is given to those countries that are now responsible in the Council of Europe for the state of the environment in Ukraine. Today, I think we have Denmark. And for today, first of all, we're not allowed to produce those drugs that were used in industry today -- these are, for example, capacitors, these are transformers and things that refer to persistent organic pollutants, and they don't produce organic miniblasts that have pesticides today. Here's a program developed by the Ministry of Ecology, which.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u106	I'm sorry. Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Everything is provided here, including the exchange of information, the means of control, the safeguards of the parties relative to non-production or the register of specific exceptions, if this has to be done, that is, all of this is foreseen. Please, Skudar, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u107	Skudar, Party of Regions. I will support this convention. Of course, we will mostly support her. I have the following question. When they talk about the amount of money and talk about the programme before 2028, but there is some doubt, because all the processes of these pesticides and other harmful substances that need to be eliminated, today they continue to appear, perhaps even more than a few years ago. That's why it's so specific -- the 28th year, the 900 million -- I think, but it raises some doubt. Is it doubtful whether you are convinced that by implementing this programme by spending this money, we will in fact solve the problem of healing our society and our land from the harmful substances that we have given birth to ourselves and created in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u108	Well, I'm sure it's not just these substances that affect our society's environmental condition that have much more impact on, for example, the environment of road transport, the washing agents that we use with you on a phosphate basis, because they pollute virtually all of our reservoirs. And we've already had an example in Sevastopol, that blue and green algae, they've made the drinking water situation in this city much worse. But this refers to the category of pollutants. And I'm convinced that we're going to significantly shorten the deadlines for decommissioning them in our nation's territory. So the information that I'm giving you right now is a feed assignment for our committee. So today we're familiar with the program that exists today. This program is presented as necessary in countries that have already ratified the Stockholm Convention. And I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u109	Finish it. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u110	In a detailed study, we're going to cut the deadlines considerably, and according to these well-known persistent organic pollutants, they're in sight, they're going to be both the Supreme Council of the Professional Committees and the Ministry of Ecology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss? None. I put to the vote this bill, introduced by the President, for its approval. [[12:27:14]] For 251 Decision taken. Please take your seats. The word for replication is given by Vitaly Ivanovich Miko. One minute. Please. One and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u112	I have a request. I want to say, we've just been looking at the Law on the Development of the Basic Directions of Priority Science and Technology. You know, I'll tell you honestly, somehow it hurts the soul that we're such a law and so on. Well, I'm not saying there's no crawl space, it's on their conscience. But I think that's the law, Alexander Alexanderovich, we need to put it a little differently, maybe for the second reading, get it straight and clear. First. It's been six months. No one's ever done it. See how many questions we ask in this room: gas, secondly, price cuts, everything. Prices will not be lower. And you can use less gas. How many discoveries are there today in Kyiv scientists and in Ukraine? A thousand. We don't implement them. China, Russia -- everybody's gone now, everyone's realized that only through science can you go through and make it pay, and it's different. We totally dropped this and didn't put it as a major development issue for Ukraine. If we don't, Alexander Alexander, we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u113	Thank you. We will pay more attention on our second reading. I'm asking the deputies to stay in the hall. It's gonna be okay, yeah. Deputies! I want to tell you that according to what you can believe, there's an elementary provocation on the street. Presently, demonstrators from different political structures and different political orientations are taking action: on the Maidan one, on the other, at the Cabinet of Ministers, at the Supreme Council, at the Office of the President. There are coalition supporters. So, there's going to be a provocation of this kind of content that our kind of representatives or coalition supporters might be able to do. To stage the capture of the President's Administration by properly changing their clothes. People, and so on. Practice is completely understood, methods are well known. These methods are always used by provokers. So I'd like everyone to think about it. I've asked the initiators to carry out these actions so that there won't be any members of the coalition at the President's Office. There's nothing to do, because it looks like if they're going to do that, we're going to do nothing at all, this structure. So I think that this information should now be accepted by those who will then analyze the developments. Representatives, supporters of the coalition at the Presidential Administration will not be allowed to know. On such a note, I close the morning session and ask all deputies to remain in the room. Within the sessions? Well, give acid a word more.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u114	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I have to inform you that on this night, there is absolutely reliable information, this night under the Dnipropetrovsk to strengthen the Presidential Regiment, going to overthrow a regiment of soldiers who have two weeks to station under Kiev. That's the first piece of information. I'd like you to take it and analyze it and explain it. The other one. I'm just from the Constitutional Court, where the court is now in session. But the opposition did its utmost to prevent the judges of the Constitutional Court from starting the session. They provoked the fight, and we understand why. They provoke these fights in order to try to give the President the opportunity to introduce a state of emergency in Ukraine on Friday. I would like you to remember that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-18-m0.u115	We should all bear in mind that the President has solemnly almost declared that he would not allow the introduction of an extraordinary state, no use of force structures. And we mean this statement by the President. But I'm still closing the morning session. The morning will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m., and all deputies please remain in the hall for the coalition leaders. Please.
