ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, guests of the Supreme Council, distinguished TV and radio audiences! Today's June 5th, a scheduled session of Parliament's work. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Place your cards. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:07]] There were 262 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. Let us congratulate the deputies: Romani Mikola Prokopowicz and Cibenka Petra Stepanovich on their birthday, and wish them good, good and health. [[Applause]] And yesterday, Sergio Chmyr was born, and let's welcome him on that date. [[Applause]] Now, before considering matters, there is essentially a brief reference, honourable deputies. There are questions that two factions have come to terms with their powers, and thus Parliament is ineffective, unable to continue to do so. We respect the wishes of the deputies who thus want to influence the work of Parliament, but the whole procedure needs to be completed. As long as the Central Election Commission doesn't give us a signal that no one will replace those who have emerged and those who have been deprived of parliamentary authority, Parliament is working. And this procedure needs to be completed by those who started it just as clearly as the one who wrote the statements that did not. In addition, according to the Rules, Adam Ivanovich, in conducting the meetings, announced that reports of withdrawal from the factions of the deputies should be made in the session room, and the presiding meeting then confirmed that such statements had come. But this was not done, because, first of all, a large part of the deputies were not in the room, and second of all, there are completely reasonable doubts that this message was signed by those who are mentioned in the documents themselves. Therefore, this procedure must be followed. And the Rules provide for this. Only then can a meeting of the corresponding party, gathered in accordance with the law and so forth, make the right decision. Therefore, until all these procedures have been carried out, until we have received confirmation from the Central Electoral Commission of the relevant acts, Parliament cannot be considered illegal, unlawful. And I'd like us to get out of this. Today, we have time spent talking about situations and other facts of interest to our deputies. I'm asking you to sign up for factions first and then individually. Yeah, well, I see they've signed up both factions and individual MPs. Let's get Baranowski out of the faction, if that's what it is. It's a faction, isn't it? Please. Instead of Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u2	A fast, socialist faction. Statement by the Socialist faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. The events unfolding in Ukraine cause concern and desire in the European Community, without interfering with the internal affairs of the state, advice, and tactful action, to help to resolve a constructive dialogue, dialogue. That should ensure democracy, the rule of law and the protection of human rights in Ukraine. This is reflected in the discussion of the Ukrainian question at the Paris, European Parliament, the visit to Ukraine by MEPs, the leaders of PARJE and the EU. The conference of the heads of parliaments of the EU member states, held from 24 to 26 May in Bratislava, dealt separately with the issue of Ukraine's European integration aspirations because of the prism of the latest events in our country. It was reported by the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz. A common statement by the President of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Prime Minister of 27 May 2007 on urgent measures aimed at resolving the political crisis through the holding of successive elections to parliament was a great understanding in European institutions. It has been seen as an important step, even though according to the European Parliamentarians, although it is fully focused on overcoming the root causes of the crisis. As the co-chair of Ukraine’s parliamentary partnership, Andre Severin, the differences between the country’s main political forces remain deep and potentially dangerous and, even after the parliamentary elections agreed on, may prove to be insufficient. This statement was made against the background of events when a coalition in the Supreme Council of Ukraine consistently carried out the obligations contained in the application, despite gross violations by the President’s environment, which outside its jurisdiction, allows interference with the activities of judicial authorities and law enforcement agencies. As it is known, on May 29 of this year, the newly appointed, scandalously renowned head of the DSO of Ukraine, Heletej, with his fellow employees, invaded the advisory room of the judges of the Constitutional Court in an effort to disrupt its session, where only the Constitutional Court and the members of the Constitutional Court have the right to participate. Contrary to Ukrainian legislation, since the decision of the Constitutional Court, the practice of appointing the President of the judges of general jurisdiction, which is contrary to the European practice of the independence of the judiciary, continues. Pressure is being exerted on the Attorney General's Office, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, in violation of the Ukrainian Law on the Ministry of Internal Affairs by reordering the President of the Interior. At the same time, members of the LNB Secretariat, in the person of the deputy secretary, base their accusations on the Minister of Internal Affairs as if they were trying to use force and weapons to resolve the conflict, promising to provide copies of the existing decrees of the minister. There is still no evidence and has appealed to the court in the so-called “Hellet and Bathroom” cases, “Standman and Apartments”. No criminal case has been committed against those who, according to the President's statement, vetoed his veto on the Kabmen Act by way of bribery and political corruption. It's obviously about the Yulia Block, Timoshenko. The disorganization of the activities of the General Prosecutor's Office from the President's initiative to provide a position of duty to the Attorney-General at the President's Office, the pressure on the Constitutional Court and the district courts, interference with the activities of law enforcement agencies, the unfounded accusations of honest and conscientious employees, the personal minister of internal affairs of Vasil Tsushka, the failure to bring the alleged cases to trial, but merely the spread of gossip, the unwillingness to go to completion of the constitutional reform aimed at improving the deterrence and counter-aggression mechanism, the clear distribution of power and the attempts to use armed formations, indicates that the opposition to the President's leadership sees only one scenario for the resolution of the crisis -- through the undemocratic, unfair and unbiased elections to the Supreme Council's return to the presidency. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council warns that any use of force or irresponsible action that could lead to an increase in today's crisis, the failure to implement the May 27 agreements this year will cause great damage to Ukraine's European prospects, and will reinforce its negative image in the world. This will be the responsibility of the President, his environment, and the leaders of the opposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u3	The Word Has Acid instead of Bronnikov
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u4	Honorable Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues, respected compatriots! The faction of the Party of the Regions does not share the euphoria of the ascension that has overtaken members of the opposition factions, as well as President Yushchenk of Ukraine, in the situation of reserving powers to members of the people's deputies who are in opposition factions. By their so - called principled action, opposition forces have once again demonstrated that opposition is seeking power and more specifically its personal presence in power. No other priority of the opposition leaders is of interest. And to achieve these goals, all methods, including extreme and not legal, have been used to destabilize the overall situation in Ukraine. The saddest thing is that the President of Ukraine has demonstrated his clear affection and support for only one part of the Ukrainian politics. The expression of sincere gratitude to the deputies who have given up the work of the people's defenders, the conscious and artificial destruction of the work of the country's higher legislature, cannot be and must not, under any circumstances, be a conscious position of the guarantor of the Constitution. The President's actions mean only one thing, the President demands the legitimization of previous non-legal actions, and he is now sincerely pleased that he has allegedly received legitimate grounds for the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. How can the President of the country so openly rejoice in the breakup of his own country's parliament, surely a mystery not only for our citizens but also for the world's democratic community. The serious political involvement of the President, who provided only two factions of Parliament with extraordinary epithets, is frightening. They're patriots and Democrats, and they've made a big contribution to the building of democracy, and so on. What's interesting about the MPs who work in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and adopt laws is that the President doesn't want to meet and thank them for their work, at least for the laws we passed in this room and he signed? Whether Ukraine is back to the logic of assigning its enemies. The faction of the Party of the Regions expresses deep concern about the precedent for the composition of mandates by opposition deputies. We claim that Ukraine will deliberately push for permanent crisis development, the parliamentary forces that will remain in the minority by the logic of events will continue to repeat the practice of completing powers. Thus, Parliament's work will be destroyed definitively, resulting in Ukraine being able to find itself before the establishment of a rigid presidential form of government. The Coalition fully supports the position of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which requires compliance with the requirements of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine and the Supreme Council's Rules of Procedure, in order of 82 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. Until there is a decision by the CLTC, or perhaps a decision by the Constitutional Court to refer those deputies who do not want to be appointed both those deputies and those candidates to the national MPs on the opposition party lists. And they have the right to become national deputies instead of those coming out of factions because they were voted in March 2006. Until then, it cannot be considered legally clean to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The refusal of the people’s probate from their parliamentary powers must take place entirely under a clear legal arrangement. Even if it takes appropriate changes to existing legislation, otherwise we can get two Supreme Councils of Ukraine and perhaps two capitals of Ukraine. That is why the faction of the Party of Regions insists on solving the political crisis exclusively in the legal field. And arrangements between the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are generally political. These arrangements must be based on a clear legal basis, otherwise Ukraine will forever face the world, as unforeseeable, not a stable state, where political and revolutionary relevance is higher than law. The Party of Regions understands the full danger of political developments and claims to prevent the destruction of the foundations of democratic legal development and parliamentaryism in Ukraine. And in conclusion, the faction of the Party of the Regions believes that today it is necessary to hold an urgent meeting of the UXO, not without legitimate grounds, to force parliamentary elections to take place in the short term, but first to remedy the situation that has taken place today in Ukraine as a result of a prolonged drought. That is why we urge everyone and, above all, the President of Ukraine to cooperate constructively in a clearly defined legal field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u5	Thank you. Danilov, representative of Block Timoshenko, followed by Simonenko instead of Ponomarenko. Alexandrowski, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u6	Alexei Danilov, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, interfractional association “Free Democrats”. Dear friends! We have our own vision of the political paranoia that is taking place in our country today. To express our point of view, we invite all parliamentary journalists at 10:30 to a briefing on the third floor, where we will express our vision of events, our vision of what is happening in our society, in general in our Parliament. I'd like to invite all the reporters to 10.30 a.m. on the third floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u7	Please have Alexander's word for her, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u8	Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens of Ukraine! Dear members of the press! All of us have witnessed the neglect of our obligations to the voters of the Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine factions. Recall with what suspense, with what apparent dedication they demonstrated their desire to defend the interests of the electorate. Today, the cynicism of the representatives of the orange factions, who have used the painful points and the most serious problems that concern our voters, who have cynically played on the feelings of our voters, is fully evident for the benefit of raising their own rating. Where is their fight for justice today? Where do they fight to ensure that housing and utility tariffs are fair? Where are they fighting so that people can receive subsidies without hindrance? Where are these issues that they were obliged to put into this room today, to consider, to insist on, and finally to vote. Today, this is not a subject on their part. Today they are concerned about the rights of voters who are allegedly violated here in the walls of Parliament. And I want to draw attention to a very different fact. Today, there is a reference to 82 articles of the Constitution, which speak of the power of the Supreme Council if the number of members of the Supreme Council is less than two thirds, i.e. less than 301 people's deputies. I would like to recall that this rule was included when there was no election to Parliament on party lists. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court has expressed its opinion on the legality of the application of this article throughout the period of the Supreme Council at the time of 2002 when there was also no procedure for the election of the Supreme Council on party lists. Today, cynical, selfish manipulation of the Constitution of Ukraine is not useless. The Constitution of any State cannot take into account subjective factors, subjective desires, all the more so as to use the Constitution for its own useful purposes, as we see today. The desire of power, the desire to change Parliament's configuration, that's what drives the orange factions and they fight to achieve that goal. However, I appeal to the whole public and to you, distinguished colleagues, to read very carefully the Criminal Code of Ukraine, particularly the first section, a particular part, particularly the part where crimes against the fundamentals of Ukraine's national security are referred to. Article 109, “actions aimed at the violent change or overthrow of the constitutional system or the capture of state authority”. Part Two: “Public calls for a violent change or a downsizing of the constitutional system or the capture of state authority, as well as the distribution of materials with calls for such actions, are punishable by a restriction of the will to a term of up to three years, or by the deprivation of the will for the same term.” Part three of this article: “actions envisaged in part two of this article, acts by a person who is a representative of power or who is repeatedly punished by a restriction of the will to a term of up to five years or by the deprivation of the will for the same term. ” There is article 111 “State betrayal”, which also speaks of damage to Ukraine's State sovereignty and State security. There is article 157 of the “disruptment to the exercise of electoral law”. I believe, and I very seriously and responsibly declare that what is being initiated today by the representative of the faction “Our Ukraine” and the BUT is subject to these articles of the Criminal Code, which is how it is necessary to assess their actions, because there is no objective basis for the destruction of Parliament, for the destruction of Parliament, to obstruct its work of objective circumstances. There is a subjective factor that has been referred to as a skin subjective factor last week, and this factor is reflected in the punishment in the articles of the Criminal Code. I believe that it is time for us to give a principled, legal assessment of the developments that are taking place in the Supreme Council, enough to seek compromises, to make concessions to those who are violating the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine today, it is time for us to give you, the people's deputies, the Ukrainian Parliament a legal assessment of what is going on here in this room and, including from the perspective of the articles of the Criminal Code. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u9	Thank you. Tkachenko passes the word “Zibenko. ” Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u10	Tuckenko, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I would like to remind you of some of the parallels in the history of our nation that Ukraine itself is a large country of the world over and over the Blacklands, and there is virtually no such state in the world. At the same time, I would like to remind you, in order to adopt the 2000 Earth Code, that the previous President Kuchmi had to break Parliament, and if he didn't break it, to change the leadership that represented the Communist Party. And with the support of the same orange today, with the support of BUTT, Kuchmi was able to do so in 2000 and in autumn, by adopting the Land Cadastre Act, which envisioned making Ukrainian land a commodity, that is, the life space of the Ukrainian people. During the time we passed, we saw what that led to. In this room we have had to prolong the lines several times so that the land does not become a commodity. And today we have shown that this Parliament has adopted the last decree that has passed the law until 1 January 2008. Since January 1, 2008, the land will become a commodity. But what is the preconceived what? Of course, President Yushchenko new understands that Parliament will not allow the conversion of Ukrainian land into goods. And that's why I think he's following the instructions he's been given to eliminate the higher legislature and make Ukraine one-on-one to manage today's free president. I think, dear friends, that we should save Parliament. I think we have to do everything we can to prevent the earth from becoming a commodity. We took you into this room not too long ago, the moon, the Earth cadastre and the President are vetoing it! And today without the Earth cadastre, well, you can adopt a law on the price mechanism on earth. And the law goes into effect, and more specifically, the Kabmin ruling of the year ninety - six according to Marchuk’s signature that the price of Ukrainian land is three and a half thousand bracelets. There is no such price in the world! The lowest land in Germany costs between 18 and 75,000 euros. So the conclusion is one, dear friends. We have to save Parliament, we have to consider these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u11	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u12	We have to do everything we can to prevent the vacchanals in the state. Today, it is easier for us to replace five presidents, such as Yushchenko, but to leave the land behind the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u13	Thank you. Ivan Boki. After him, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u14	Ivan Boki. I thank my colleague Mordecai, who gives me three more minutes. Dear citizens of Ukraine! Dear National Deputies! Television and sales are widely promoted in the Yuri Lucenka region. The election campaign has not yet begun, but the campaign is already under way. Lucenko accuses everyone of treason, especially by cursing socialists and bringing his own person to heaven. Those who know Lucenka well, his pathological desire for power and money, except for his demagogue. His Jewish break from the left camp to the Nacdem, in fact, no one is surprised. It's always where it smells like jobs and profits. The Marauder of the political nature of Lucenko especially likes to feed on the left electorate. But right now, I deliberately don't want to touch the nature of the luzenky lie, that's a separate conversation. Now there's something else he doesn't tell people. Now, Lucenko has repeatedly stated that he wants to return to the minister of the interior. Of course, no one is forbidden to want it. Although which one of them was the minister, everyone knows. Lucenko liked to dress up or bend on television screens, promising to fight corruption and bandits, but it ended with an empty sound. He loves and is enough to blame his own insolence on all in a row, but that is always the case. Bad dancers are known to be hardest hit by pants and floors. There are still very simple things that say about which of Lucenka's Minister of Interior was simply, accessible and unscrupulous. The Chief Auditor's Office conducted an audit of the Ministry of Internal Affairs during Lucenka's administration, and the results of the audit are not only impressive but horrifying. Listen and draw conclusions. During the administration of Yushchenk’s beloved minister in police custody at various violations, the state lost 1 billion 600 million dollars. By the will of Lucenka, 881 and 1,187 units of staff were maintained in the central apparatus above the Cabinet of Ministers in 2005 and 2006, for which 73.3 million dollars were overpaid from the budget. A total of 342.5 million dollars was lost to the construction of the apartment. With the release of state-owned assets — central security remote controls — to a closed stock company called the Protection Complex, the State Security Service lost 462 million bracelets. Whether this is an innocent and unaddressed loss, let it set up investigations that are behind the loss of 60.3 million dollars due to the transfer of the IMF part of its own foreign passport function, the “Document Resources” company. Interestingly, whose hands did they sail? And what are the illegal expenditures of the organs and units of the IMF system in the regions for as many as 350 million dollars received for the provision of paid services? And all of this was done under the indefatigable eye of a minister who was zealous in controlling financial flows in the ministry. The real breakup took place during the time of Minister Lucenk with the issuance of foreign passports. A variety of commercial structures in conjunction with the relevant units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs have been looted for the so - called rapid processing of passports for astronomical sums from citizens from 700 to 1600 dollars. Can a man return to the minister’s chair whose weapon he was carrying out, I repeat, such a breakup? Lucenko wants it. But does he have the moral right to be the minister of the police, who has essentially disgraced such free leadership? And whether he has the right to fool people's heads by voting all over his virtues and by hiding the truth about what was done under his leadership in the main militia department of the state. Because it is quite clear, such as Lucenko, that it is the basis for the corruption of state institutions and policies in Ukraine. People like Lucenko know how to crawl under the skull into trusting heads of people. In doing so, he does not say that he was hired to deceive the people of the Ukrainian oligarchy, either from the former environment of Kuchma, which he otherwise did not call a red cockroach or from the present - day Yushchenk environment. The former Antichrist became just as banal a bushmist. Until only one of the organizers, along with Yashchenk, Balogya, Timoshenko, the destruction of all the institutions of power. Some naive people believe that dolls will come and change everything for the better. Better not, the same marauders and bites that have led Ukraine for more than a year as a goat on the market are in power. And those 1 billion 600 million dollars of government losses that caused his work as minister of the interior, the best confirmation of the absolute void and the lying of all his rallying promises and his innocence, multiplied by demogogies and deceptions. And in conclusion, another one about the same Judas as Lucenko. I'm talking about Joseph Winsky. Today it is one of the largest hawks in the Traveling Camp. He literally tore out statements from representatives of the BUT faction that they would be appointed. I am officially on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, which he has chosen and betrayed, and I offer to confirm to Mr. Winsky that he is willing to exercise his authority. Submit your application to the Supreme Council and be sure that 226 votes for not going to this room will be available. The fact that you're a Judas apostate is known to everyone. Confirm that we're the man you're willing to do what you've been abusing your subservient deputies from the other party you've crossed into. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u15	Thank you The Word has Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u16	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, the events of the last days, the noisy campaign organized by the BUT factions and “Our Ukraine” led by the de facto leader, the so-called “Yushchenka” opposition to the timely formation of their parliamentary powers, not by the parliamentary majority, as some think, but, above all, before society, to the entire nation of Ukraine a number of painful issues. The answers to these questions are far from worth looking for. They lie, as they say, on the surface, known to every sane person. They do not want to be recognized only by the opposition, who, sadly, are overly impressed by the subtle disease called amnesia in medicine. Remember, it's when you can't remember your past, your previous ideas, your ideas and your principles. So in this case, we're dealing with nothing but political amnesia. I'm going to allow myself to name the main symptoms of this disease or the more rapid phenomenon is absolute oblivion, if I don't say more frankly, the cynical attitude of pseudo-positioners towards their own pre-election slogans, programs and promises, including the author of the already-suspecting "10 Steps Meet People" program. Nobody, let's remind you, has prevented either the blonde or the orange MPs from implementing their electoral programs, of course, those that are motivated by the country's national interests on the Ukrainian people. The next symptom of the political disease of the so-called opposition is the refusal to count against warnings, including the European community, in particular the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on the non-targetity of early elections to the Supreme Council in the absence of any legal basis for this. What, though, can be called ignoring another forecast: The following elections will not only eliminate differences between different political forces but will further exacerbate them? And a billion dollars, which are most modestly estimated to be spent on parliamentary races this year, will go beyond further increasing pensions and wages, other pressing social needs, but to the satisfaction of ambitious and greedy, powerful ambitions of three-ko, co, co, timoshenko, Lucenko, Kirilenko. We can't do that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u17	Thank you. [[Applause]] Kalashnikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected compatriots! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions, Coalition of National Unity I'd like to report that yesterday, the National Deputy's office, which is on the National Security and Defence Committee, was robbed. None of the personal items were stolen, a computer and documents relating to the official activity of the Ukrainian national deputy were stolen. I would like to thank the representatives of the Ministry of Internal Affairs who have done everything they can to start a search and find the culprits in this event. But as a national deputy today, I am concerned that it is the State Security Service, which protects the premises of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, that has allowed pressure to be exerted on the national deputies of Ukraine who carry out their duties in accordance with the rules of the Ukrainian Constitution. I'm sorry to mention this, but this is the fact that it was the representatives of the State Security Authority who provided the transition regime to the Supreme Council premises that allowed things and official documents from the Supreme Council to be removed from the National Deputy of Ukraine. I would like to point out that, unfortunately, instead of carrying out their constitutional duties, it is the representatives of the State Security Service in their disgraceful actions in the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, under the direction of their personal leader, Mr. Hellet, who have committed acts that have signs of crimes envisaged in article 344 - “Involvement in the activities of a public official”, article 351 - “Prohibition of the activities of the Ukrainian National Deputy”, article 365 - “Prevention of power or official powers” of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. It is from this rostrum that I call upon all the representatives of the State Security Service, and I call upon her manager, Mr. Hellet, to use public funds, budgetary resources to carry out his duties, to ensure the safety of the Supreme Council premises, rather than to spend these funds to increase his own security, as Mr. Helletius does. I'm from the Supreme Council's rostrum and I'm asking him, "Why do you need three automatics in security?" Why do you need a personal security guard in your counselor's rank? You personally excite the citizens of Ukraine, namely, those actions that took place yesterday pose a real threat to the activities of the Ukrainian national deputy and to the performance of his duties. I refer again from this rostrum to Mr. Hellet, to those who today are pressing on the Constitution of Ukraine with the aim of forcing Ukrainian national deputies to renounce their civil position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u19	Thank you. With regard to the last report, I wanted to say that the corresponding commission for the fact that Oleg Ivanovich spoke about would be carried out. And what happened was the theft, but, clearly, this is not a crime, it shouldn't be, but I wouldn't have addressed it directly to the Department of Public Protection, because the investigation has to be done, and then it's all about. Thus, the people in our community who work for the Office of State Protection are conscientious about their responsibilities, but their role is reduced, in fact, to what you have seen. Look who's going into the room, and maybe that's something else. So this is external control, control is limited, and they're doing their job, in my opinion, in good conscience. And what happened is, obviously, this is the reason a little bit different and we need to look deeper for it where it is. With regard to someone going in there with security, you can see for yourself that, according to the law on State Security, such an assignment, or such a decision on protection, only the President can make. If he decided to do so, he had some basis for such a move. But there's obviously no need to generalize here. I just know that in the last period, none of the heads of State Security have used personal protection. Because its functions are clearly regulated by legislation and functional obligations do not pose any particular threat to a person’s life. So you have to keep that in mind. And once again, the biggest concern today was the MPs who were asking questions about the authorization of the Supreme Council in the context of the proposals made by the deputies who were willing to submit their credentials. This topic is likely to be present in a political environment for a long time, because, indeed, colleagues have taken inadequate steps and, as they themselves say, the creation of a precedent not known in the world political or constitutional procedure, but nevertheless everything should be done exclusively on the basis of the Constitution and the laws, and so will be done. So until we get confirmation that, in exchange for example, the deputies who have emerged from “Our Ukraine” do not come from other deputies, and that more than forty deputies are in no way affected by those who wish to leave Parliament, and the court cannot take advantage of most of the factions of such a decision because they are living people, they have the same rights as all those who are on the lists for the election of deputies. So let's wait calmly, without anxiety. Our work is true, so it is right because it is based on the law and the Constitution. We are now discussing the issue of the decision of the European Commission for Democracy through Law, the Venice Commission, which has completed its work on one of the issues related to Ukrainian legislation. And for the rapporteur, a member of the European Commission, National Deputy Chief Sergei Petrovich, is given 15 minutes. He asked them for a speech, for a report. Please use this right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u20	Dear Mr. Head, my fellow national MPs. Last week, the European Commission "For Democracy through Right" held its 71 plenary session to address four Ukrainian issues. In order of order, I'll give them to you. First. This was the case with the request of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in accordance with the resolution adopted in October regarding the availability of a sufficient legislative basis for holding parliamentary elections for the term. The second question. This is true of the law already passed by the Supreme Council, the State Register of Voters. Question three. This is a well-known bill on parliamentary opposition. And question four. This is about an imperative mandate for members of local and regional self-government. So, as we know, who participated in the European Parliamentary Assembly in October, the members of the delegation from “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Timoshenko Block, and at the meeting of the Monitoring Committee and in the Assembly Session Hall, argued that there was a sufficient legislative basis in Ukraine for holding early parliamentary elections and that there was no need to make any changes to legislation. Since I told them and my other colleagues that we did not have enough bases, the Parliamentary Assembly decided to ask the Venice Commission to investigate our legislation and to make its unbiased, objective conclusion as to who was right or opposition, or those who said that we did not have enough basis. In this conclusion, which was approved yesterday by the Venice Commission, I will stress only certain aspects, because this is about such detailed documents, it is about the Law on the Election of Deputies, as it was adopted before changes to the Constitution were made. In this context, the Venice Commission concludes that there are problems in implementing this law because some constitutional provisions under the Law on the Election of Deputies cannot be implemented. Many regulations need procedural regulation and detail, and this needs to be done through appropriate changes. In particular, I stress that the issue of procedural complaints arises during early parliamentary elections, and they are not regulated in Ukrainian legislation, and therefore, in the view of the Commission, this seems rather problematic in this situation, when the time frame for holding elections is substantially reduced. The procedure for bringing the voters to accuracy, as the commission says, may be one of the main problems for early elections. And since existing legislation is not sufficient for electoral commissions and other competent authorities to exercise their powers in accordance with the requirements set out for the accuracy of electoral lists. Another point highlighted by the Venice Commission is that the different issues of the electoral process are regulated in different laws and, in the case of the early elections, there is a limited possibility of interpreting the application of these laws. That's why the Venice Commission is returning to its previous recommendations so that a single electoral code will still be adopted in Ukraine, which would include all the issues related to the electoral process. So the general conclusion is that, despite the fact that the basic elements for the elections are, the commission considers that individual legislative positions and procedural norms, their application, are unclear, inaccurate and insufficient to fully ensure the electoral rights of the electorate. This can seriously compromise the electoral process and create political, social, and disorder. In the context of the early elections, the political climate is tense and there is a risk of confrontation between the political forces. So in order not to undermine voter confidence in the electoral process, all of this, which undermines, needs to be rectified. And accordingly, the Venice Commission points out that this issue is not settled, from the point of view of budgeting or election financing. The second question is about the voter registration law, and I'm going to stop at it very briefly, because there's a lot of comments about technical issues. We know that this law has been passed, it has to take effect since 1 October, but the Venice Commission points out that this law demonstrates a lack of compliance with other laws, once again, that apply to the electoral process. Thus, once again and in this conclusion, the need to consolidate all legislation into a single electoral code, including a voter register. I won't. A very important point is the protection of personal data. The Venice Commission points out that although Ukraine has signed the European Convention on the Automatic Processing of Personal Data, this convention is not ratified, it is certain that Parliament should ratify it. And according to the Venice Commission, this law gives tremendously broad rights to political parties with regard to personal data, it draws attention to the fact that the Commission, under which the political party will have access to the election data, to the election data or to a single national register, is far from being required by European standards. And since political parties are making it difficult to act for political purposes, parties can use the national voter register for their interested, as it were, interests, and use it as a tool for the electoral company. This applies to this bill. Now. Or the law. I think it can be taken into account if it's not in principle effective by October 1st, then in the process of giving proper orders to the committees, to the Scientific and Scientific Administration and so on. In order to be able to make appropriate changes. Now with regard to the Law on Parliamentary Opposition. Finally, this conclusion is accepted because at the last meeting in March, two hours of debate did not lead to unanimous opinion among the members of the commission. Since Europe is surprised by the need for one country, members of the Council of Europe to regulate the status of opposition by a special law, which is once again nowhere in any country, except Portugal, where this does not apply to parliamentary opposition, and this applies in general to opposition activities in principle and non-parliamentary boundaries. The Venice Commission emphasises that neither the term “parliamentary opposition” nor the term “oppositional activity” are used in the Ukrainian Constitution, legislation. Therefore, the scope of the rights and immunities conferred on Members of Parliament, as defined by the Constitution, as defined by the Law on the Status of the People's Deputy and the Rules of the Supreme Council, does not depend on this amount of rights on the membership of Parliament to one or more parts of Parliament. It spreads equally regardless of their status and, in general, they think this bipolar nature, which is a bipolar nature, which is the majority and there is opposition and there is nothing else, is black and white or white and black, and the third is not given, it is not characteristic of continental systems. This is in principle, in those systems where there is actually, there is already a practice where one party in power and another party in opposition and there is a chance that this party will be able to change the first party in future elections. Therefore, what is proposed by our bill is not typical of us, and the Venice Commission says that the Ukrainian Parliament is characterized by pluralism of political parties, blocs, factions and independent members of Parliament. Political institutional life in Ukraine is often changed because there are different transitions from one MP to another, from one party to another factions. Under these conditions, the Venice Commission believes that this was, it is very difficult and is very problematic in terms of non-discrimination, in terms of ensuring equality of rights and the ability to impose such strict rules, especially when these rules give specific special authority to certain politicians at the expense of others. And the Commission generally believes that the introduction of these strict procedures proposed by this law to establish and to establish the concept of “parliamentary opposition” gives rise to serious concern, either in terms of harmful consequences for the freedom and independence of the mandate of MPs. Several times, I will not analyze all the articles of this bill as it is technical here, but the main, here analyzed those articles that deal with violations of the rights of those deputies that do not belong to either the majority nor to the opposition and the position of this law they are, in practice, giving full authority to take decisions by the political authorities. And that's why the Venice Commission, I'm practically teaching these four paragraphs, they're talking about this. This law, which has been considered, leaves the adoption of very important decisions regarding the status of a deputy to the governing bodies of the party and this does not meet the requirements of the rule of law. This violates the principle of a free and independent mandate of MPs, by introducing an imperative mandate -- this is incompatible with the traditional and universal doctrine of representative democracy in Europe. Democratic principles require political conflicts to be resolved through free debates between political parties and society in general. Thus, banning a member from one political group to another, especially when such a transition is conditional on certain political, social, economic, social development that is going through society, is certainly a serious breach, a breakup between civil society and parliament. In view of all of this, the introduction of a recall, as it were, by the electorate, but it is also a party, a corresponding party of deputies, both at the local level and in the Crimea, and at the national level, that does not comply with European standards and places serious inconsistencies with the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the Venice Commission strongly recommends that all these positions be removed from the constitutional order of Ukraine, from the legal order of Ukraine. And the last. It is no longer related to the conclusion but to the development of this. Alexandre Alexandrovich, debated, when I arrived yesterday, I watched Eru, an MP from “Our Ukraine” says that there is no procedure in place regarding the establishment of powers. That there's something to expect from the Central Election Commission. Dear colleagues, let us ask the leaders of the two factions, in Julius Timoshenko and in Kirilenko. Are they sincere when they say that they have appointed deputies? Are they sincere when they say they want to leave parliament? Why are they clinging to article 6, paragraph 6, of article 81 of the Constitution on nonparticipation? They have statements. Today, too, someone has made statements about not entering or leaving the faction or claiming authority. If they want to exercise authority and do not lie to people about it, they have the first paragraph of article 81, which makes it clear that the authority of the national deputies ceases in the event of a person’s personal application. Let us ask colleagues: First of July Timoshenko to come to this rostrum and Viacheslav Kirilenka, let them set an example for their deputies of their factions, let them write their statements of credentials, come here, say they want to be authorized, we will ask them a few questions, and then we will make the decisions as required by the procedure. Recall the last part of article 79: The powers of Ukrainian national deputies begin at the time of the formation of an oath. Where does this start? This way. This is the beginning of the political life of the deputy, this rostrum must be the end of his political life as a deputy, as he wishes. That's why I'm proposing this procedure. Invite them to be honest with the people, come here Timoshenko and Kirilenko, and then maybe we can put out lists, as you know, of a group a, “group a”, “group b”, “group d” per day five from each faction, 10 from here. And in this way, honestly before all the people, they will exercise authority, and then we will find out, and we will be convinced that the Supreme Council will work. I've exchanged thoughts with colleagues, many experts from the Venice Commission, professors, they're surprised, they say, there can't be anyone out and there's no parliament. As it were in Europe, no European Parliament would exist as if the opposition that lost the elections would now be the elections in France or where they were in Germany. If the opposition goes away, there is no parliament, there can be no such thing. But first, since the mess is already brewed, let Timoshenko and Kirilenko come here, we'll listen, and I think we'll vote for the end of their parliamentary powers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u21	Now, a minute. We won't discuss it. If there is any confusion, there is a question, please answer the question. Sign up, but no discussion, I'll say it again. One minute to ask, one minute to answer. Please sign in for six minutes. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u22	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Mr. Sergey Petrovich, I have one suggestion and one question. Offer. How do you feel about us publishing the full text of this conclusion in the Voice of Ukraine, since this applies not only to your report but also to what is happening in Ukraine? That's the first one. And the second. I'd like to ask you something else. As you have seen, as the members of the Venice Commission refer to the so-called renegotiation of the list, when candidates for deputies who have the right to be elected are deprived of their right to be elected. They're waiting for them to take the place of those who don't want to work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u23	With regard to publications. I think it would be interesting not only to the MPs, to the political forces, but also to our scientific circles, because they are silent. And perhaps, since this is a new phenomenon that did not exist in Europe, it is only born in Ukraine, and there is. The original. It may well deserve attention, discussion, communication. Therefore, the conclusions on opposition and the imperative mandate would be appropriate. They're not translated into Ukrainian yet, they're still in English, but I think it's appropriate to print in a newspaper. With respect to rejuvenation. It's also a Ukrainian bicycle that doesn't need to be invented, it's an incomprehensible thing, because the status of the MP is still given by the electorate. And if you've given this vote, the party can't stand above the electorate. And my rights, my status has been defined by the people, the party, the block can't take me away, the more because I was a candidate, and when I made an oath, I became a deputy. After I took an oath, it's only until I'm 91. There's no rapping the lists. They don't understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u24	Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u25	Vladimir Tarasov, Socialist Party of Ukraine. Please give my word to my colleague Vitalia Šibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u26	Vitali Jakovic, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u27	Vitaly Shibko. Thank you, Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Sergey Petrovich, you have now used two terms in your report: “legal” and “constitutional law order”. Please tell me, did the Venice Commission raise any questions about the constitutional order or was there more to the legal order that exists today? That's the first question. And a second question, please. You know, in the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it was said that there was no budget allocated at the same time for the election. Was there any debate at the Venice Commission on this matter, or did it really have to be budgeted to hold these successive elections? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u28	Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich. I'll just start from the last one. The expert from France pointed to this, he raised the issue of the budget, and then there was a discussion where he was actually present. There were two other members of the “our Ukrainians” who are probably still deputies, they have not yet come up with a mandate, this is Klukkowski and, I don't remember, a lawyer from "Our Ukraine", her last name. They said there would be no need to amend the budget law, but after the discussion, the Venice Commission completed its draft conclusion with a separate paragraph on budgetary financing. I don't have the final formula, as it's written, it'll be official when this document is officially available. As far as law and order are concerned. The legal order, in a broad sense, includes the constitutional order and order established by ordinary legislation. It is therefore proposed that this be excluded in principle from the legal order of Ukraine, from the rule of law as such, including the constitutional rule of law, whether sectoral or sectoral, or from the legal order that exists, is established by all normative acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u29	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u30	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Sergey Petrovich, I support the position of the European Commission "For Democracy – Through Law" on the formation of Ukrainian legislation, including you. But I'd like to give it to Jaroslav Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u32	Dear Sergio Petrovich, today, despite all the public assurances of Victor Yushchenk, the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine remains blocked by its structures. The Head of the State Security Service begins his day of work by detaining the judges of the Constitutional Court for several hours. Thus, there is no hope that the only body of constitutional jurisdiction in the State will work. Should such conditions not initiate consideration of the constitutionality of the Presidential decree regarding the higher legislative body of the State in?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u33	Well, the Venice Commission, in principle, does not address the issue of political character. This is an expert body that can provide advice. Among other things, he may even counsel the Constitutional Court. We had one question in the daytime that was about giving. – it is, as it were, an advisory service that can, if the Constitutional Court doesn't know something, Ukrainian, maybe in theory, it can turn. But that's not the problem. That's what I'm trying to say. When I spoke to some professors and tried to explain the President's orders to both the judges and the constitutional judges, and the Attorney General, and the internal forces, he asked me, "Is he out of my mind?" "No, it doesn't look like it." Then the second question says, “Does he have no lawyers?” I say, “E.” “Then,” he says, “I can’t understand what is happening to you.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u34	Chernobyl is the last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u35	Dear Sergey Petrovich, do you recall that once Ukraine had almost lost its seat on the Council of Europe simply because it had mismanaged certain formalities to ban the death penalty? Now what is happening today with the manipulation of laws, with the imperative mandate, the imposition, and so on, in fact, they look much worse and more serious, because then only formal things have not been done, and today there is actually a precedent for the threat to basic democratic institutions. Do not these actions, which have now pushed opposition parties, like the actions of the President, pose a serious threat to us to the loss of our lives in these very international institutions of Europe? How high is such a threat today?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u36	I think that Vitali Yakovic and I have to be at the Paris Monitoring Committee tomorrow, and some of the members of the Monitoring Committee have asked me if I will and to help understand what is going on in the country, they cannot understand this whole process when the country is practically living outside the Constitution, the law and the law, when the country lives, the authority, the exercise of power lives within the political arrangements of individuals, but outside the Constitution, when all of these institutions are inseparable, or, and with regard to the status of judges, the heads of courts and constitutional judges, the Attorney General and everything else. So we're going to exchange our thoughts in the order of the day's monitoring committee by 7 is the Ukrainian question. Let's think about it, we'll talk about our position, we'll look at the reaction of our colleagues to the assembly and the response of the monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u37	Thank you, sit down, please. Announcing the issue, registration number 2404, is the draft Law on the Legal Regime of Land Protection Areas of Mainway Pipeways, which is reported by National Deputy Marmazova Evgen Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u38	Dear colleagues, you have before you the draft law on the legal regime of the protection zones of the main pipelines. The main pipelines are a strategic object of state property that is not to be privatized. Well, here's the main line. Oil pipelines, oil pipelines, condensate ducts, amiac conduits, ethylene wires. It must be said that the main pipelines and their facilities are located on land, virtually all areas of Ukraine. And there are high-security facilities that relate to transport products that are toxic, easily flammable, explosive, and dangerous. Lands are allocated along the main pipelines on both sides. These are the security areas of the main pipelines where special security requirements are established. To date, the regime of these zones has not been defined by law. And these are huge squares. Let's say it's 2,300 kilometers to the auto pipeline, the gas pipelines are over 30,000 kilometers. On the one hand and on the other hand, 200 meters, if you go as far as you can, you can imagine how large the area is. And they are in fact not legally resolved relations in these areas. The need for the adoption of the law, by the way, is defined by articles 3, 73, 112 of the Land Code and article 11 of the Pipeline Transport Act, which explicitly states that the legal regime of land must be regulated at the legislative level. To date, there is no such law, but there is only a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers, which is referred to as the “Rules for the Protection of Highway Pipeways” of 16 November 2000. But it's not the law, it's the law. It must be said that, initially, as a result of the joint work of the Mintopenergo specialists, Skrtransnafta, the State Oil Transport Institute, the Supreme Council Committee on TEC, a draft law on the legal regime of the land of the protected areas of the main oil pipelines has been prepared. But because, frankly, the initiative has been shown by Skrtransnaft. And oil, in fact, is a very complex and dangerous product. And you know that it's this product that is subject to unauthorized selection in our main pipelines. From 2002 to 2006, we had 432 cases of unauthorized selection. This project has been under work for almost four years. But when we started discussing the draft law in the committees and reached the agro-industry cluster, we had the right business constructive conversation there and were introduced to refine the project, taking into account that the security areas of the main pipelines were integrated, that is, all the main pipelines. The drafters agreed, we had to revoke the law, we had to finish it for two months and now we are submitting it to you for first reading. We are very grateful for the constructive comments made in the agro-industry complex of people's deputies Benzenko, Gladys, their comments as an absolute majority of us have taken into account. The draft law regulates the security zones of the main pipelines in such a direction as to protect human health, the environment, what can be done in these areas, which cannot be done. The Act provides for the smooth operation of the main pipelines, secure transit, particularly of Russian energy to the countries of Eastern and Western Europe. The manner in which the losses suffered by landowners and land users are compensated is within these protection zones. The bill consists of seven sections, some of which are of particular interest. This second section provides for the procedure for determining the size of the security zones. Introduce concepts of internal security zones within security zones, main pipelines, such as penetrating oil pipelines, amiaca pipelines, and these areas will be restricted as far as possible. The bill provides for a change in the size and boundaries of the areas of the main pipelines, including the internal security zones. The third section defines the rights and responsibilities of the enterprises of the main pipelines within the protection zones, which must be done in the course of continuous operation and what should be done in the event of an emergency. There are different modes of work. The fourth section sets out the requirements for construction, repair, land and other work within the protection zones, as well as the limitation of economic activity within the protection zones. In particular, it is prohibited to house gas stations, garages, parking lots, housing, fuel warehouses, and so on. And section 5 provides for compensation to landowners by landowners. The draft law was discussed in the five committees of the Supreme Council, TEK, transport, environment, agri-industrial complex. And the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which is positive for the bill, is proposed for consideration by the Supreme Council on first reading. It will certainly be refined on second reading because the law is voluminous. So we haven't even been able to reach some pipelines, so in particular, we have a problem with steel wires, they've been privatized, although we don't have to privatize the pipelines. Now we need to find out who privatized them, how to get them back and determine the impact of our law and the wires. What was possible, even after we discussed the draft law, handed over to our people's deputies, we have already completed all the requirements for amiacoconducts, all the demands, and made a number of comments that were made to us in the context of the discussion of the draft law on the committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u39	Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign in. Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u40	Dear Evgeny Vasilevich, I am interested in such a question, is it not necessary to tighten, control and protect the security zones themselves, as far as this is concerned with the Criminal Code, this is a terrible problem today?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u41	I fully support you in this, we do, in our draft law. It is not enough that we have the End Position, where it is said that the Cabinet of Ministers must, within three months, develop a number of laws to further the requirement of this law, in particular to tighten the demand for violations of the relevant requirements in these security zones. Because the situation is now, it's practically anarchy, the biggest anarchy, who wants to do what he does. We had this explosion, you know, you know the huge forces, last year the explosion was in Lviv district, almost under the school, and so on, and so on. And, practically, no one is responsible. Why are they not responsible? Because there was no law on the legal regime of these lands. With the passing of the Act, the requirement for compliance in those zones will certainly be strengthened. You have to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u42	Alexandrovsky. A weaver's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u43	Please pass the word Tkachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u44	Eugene Vasilovich, please tell me, and what is the question today when land along routes, gas pipelines, pipelines, amiac pipelines, high frequency lines are being leased with a subsequent ransom, I understand that these people understand the role of the State when these pipelines, oil pipelines, and so on are going to play a role in the land that belongs to someone. Who will receive a rent for this from a neighbouring country: the State or these individuals? And that's what Ukraine is all about today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u45	We've got this situation, first we've got pipelines, then we've got land cobwebs. And it turns out that there are sections where the pipelines have already been conducted. And in fact, this has not been resolved, that's what we're trying to resolve right now between the landowner or the landowner or even the tenant. The land must be State. Unfortunately, though, she is now in awe and devotion. So now we're thinking what we have now is that we don't have to privatize the mains. And the land is, unfortunately, given away.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u46	Matthew. Let me make it clear he's not happy with the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u47	Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u48	You do realize that Russia is paying us from 2.5 billion to 3 billion dollars for the highways that are going to Europe. This budget receives an additional 15 to 16 billion grevens each year — the content of higher education, secondary education, medicine and so on on. How, then, should a State miss? We must return this land to the property of the State, whatever it is, whatever laws are passed. We must make serious changes to the Earth Code and this Parliament must do so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u49	Alexander Nikolayevich, if you're asking the question that Russia is paying us for transit, it's going to go to the bottom of the state, because the pipes are public. But the pipes are in the security areas, on the land, which unfortunately are already scattered. Your land, the land where you allow the land user, is compensated for the loss, expected and so on and so forth. Do you? Making changes to the Earth Code is a variety of issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u50	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u51	Eugene Vasilovich, I have a question for you that I think is of the greatest interest to all the Ukrainian national deputies. We have the rules for the protection of the main pipelines, the operating ones, the operating ones, they work. There are limitations, fines and the like. Please explain to me what will give us, under your law, the right to the organizations that operate the main pipelines to initiate the reduction of the security zones of the main pipelines. To whom should this earth depart? It will be you, I mean, those who exploits will decide who to give this land to or someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u52	Thus, the law provides for the possibility of reducing the security zone, reducing, at the initiative of the main pipeline enterprises, but agreeing on and overseeing public authorities. Why? We don't just have pipelines in the settlements, we have them in the steppes and under the water and so on and so forth. And if we set up a security zone, let's say the maximum security zone from the diameter of the pipeline is 400 millimeters, 200 meters to the one side and 200 meters to the other. Why? There, the relevant requirements in the security zones, and the relevant requirements, mean that the State must pay compensation to the landowner for what. And for what it's worth to be 200 meters away, it's understood, if there's an object somewhere near there that's threatening, it's already got to be able to withstand that area. This law therefore gives the right to reduce the size of the security zone, but with the permission of the State authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Bevanko, a national deputy, Valerius Fedorovich, is the head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u54	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The draft Law on the Legal Treatment of Lands of Protective Areas of Motorway Pipeways, of 1505 In 2007, issue 2404, introduced by Ukrainian national deputies Marmazov and Alexei, was considered several times on the committee. The bill that we are considering today has been developed to take into account the comments made in previous committee reviews. At the same time, it needs substantial improvement in its alignment with the Ukraine Earth Code on the grounds and procedures for damages to owners and land users in disaster and planned work within the security zones and the Ukraine Pipeline Transport Act. [[on pipeline transport and security areas]] In addition, article 12 of the bill declares the concept of internal security zones within the protection zones, but the specificities of construction, repair and other work, the characteristics of farming and other activities in those zones are not established by the bill. Article 11 sets some conservation zones, only oil pipelines and gas pipelines, and there is no such thing as ammonia, water, ethylene wires. In preparing the bill for second reading, it is necessary to address the issue of damage to landowners in restricting their rights to do business within security zones. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine makes a number of remarks to the bill that deserve attention and proposes to adopt the bill as a basis. In view of the above, the committee proposes the draft Law on the Legal Regime of Lands of Protective Zones, Mainway Pipeways, to be adopted as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u55	Thank you. No questions to Bebezenka? Have a seat, please. If you would like to make a statement on this subject, please write it down. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u56	Dear colleagues, this bill raises a very serious question, the issue of land use. The volume of pipelines in Ukraine is enormous, the amount of land that is in these areas and actually under the pipe, above the pipe and not just above the pipe, the LEP and so on, any communication, huge amount of land. Indeed, today we have a threat, not even a threat, a part of the land torn apart and people legally own the land, and part of the land today can be purchased into the property of this land that will be. Then the owner of the land shall enjoy the right of the serviette. That is, the rights granted to him by the Civil Code today are the right to benefit from State compensation for the State's use of its land for the purposes of the State. We are growing up in Ukraine with all these laws. I believe that this law must be seriously amended in what way. Today, public policy must be implemented as follows. The State must now buy up this land, which is privately owned, the land that is above, under these communications, including pipelines. In order to get rid of the centuries of this payment, this, this fee and the right of the servetute owner of this land. I believe that this rule must also be incorporated into the civil code. That if the State is going to establish some communication for the private family, it is not the right of the servetute to work, but the right of the State to ransom the land as a matter of priority. We are producing a class of wounds, which, you know, is a breadwinner to the body of society, completely meaningless in terms of economics, morals and any other category. I therefore believe that this law requires a serious right of the State to redeem these lands, land, in order to fully use strategically important facilities for public purposes and not to depend in any way on the will of the private person who owns these land, land supplies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u57	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u58	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! This project is designed to implement the third, third, chapter 18 of the Ukrainian Code of Land and article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Pipeline Transport. The project is intended to strengthen the right-making position for the organizations that operate the main pipelines to initiate, in some cases, a reduction in the size of the safety zones of the main pipelines in agreement with the relevant authorities of State control and control. When it comes to the responsibility of the organizations operating the main pipelines, it is suggested that the individual zones should be differentiated within the current size of the security zones and that the corresponding management regime be established, namely, not reduced to the maximum size of the protection zones already in existence and provided for by the rules for the protection of the main pipelines, but that within existing security zones there are separate areas in which the various restrictions and constraints will apply. This is the maximum number of restrictions and loads in a zone closer to the oil pipeline and the minimum number of loads and restrictions in the zone farthest from the oil pipeline. It is also proposed to define the arrangements for the establishment and enforcement of the legal regime of the protection zones, main oil pipelines, their organisational and material and technical security, including the corresponding use regime, the establishment of restrictions on the conduct of certain types of agricultural and other activities in the land areas of the protection zones, as well as measures for the protection and reproduction of natural resources. I emphasize that the project has already been finalized, which has been concluded after the need for further work by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. A general conclusion. In view of the fact that there is a need for such a law comes from valid legislation, I propose that the draft be adopted on the basis of the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u59	Thank you. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, Reverend Alexandre Alexandrovich. Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine As an MP from Winnitzkina, where the main pipelines run, I support the need to consider such a bill. I think it should be taken as a basis, and that's what our faction holds. But we need to work on it seriously. In preparing the bill for the second reading, it would be worth taking into account, first of all, the observation of the General Directorate of Science and Exports. Indeed, structurally in the project it is appropriate to devote a separate section to monitoring compliance with law enforcement zones of oil, ammonia, and gas pipelines as high - risk objects. In fact, this is an important motive for the adoption of such a law, in view of the need to improve the maintenance of facilities in a proper technical state and taking into account the dangers that may exist on the part of terrorism in our Ukrainian conditions, the glory of God, as much as can be the result of a mere irresponsible attitude toward exploitation and allowing it to end such shameful practices as arbitrary cuts into various pipelines. Another important point is to address the issue of restrictions on the use of land within the protection zones and to maintain them by landowners and land users in order to ensure the proper accident-free operation of highway pipelines, plus the regulation of direct damage to landowners and land users, at the expense of the organizations that operate the main pipelines. Therefore, I support the proposal made by the Alexandrovska deputy on the need to consider the return of land belonging to the security zones of the highway pipelines to state ownership and, where necessary, to reduce the territory or size of the security zone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u61	Thank you. Please, a minute of the Turks. Well, the speech, the speech, I'm sorry. Would you like to make a statement? I'm talking to Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! Today, some 15,000 miles [15,000 km] of gas pipelines, 3,000 miles [3.5 thousand km] of oil pipelines, are passing through Ukraine, about 2,000 miles [2,000 km] of ammonia pipelines. And if you count high volts from tens to fiftys, you'll see that up to 40 percent of the earth is practically losing fertility at 30 to 35 percent. If the land is even spoiled today, we have to understand that the state has already lost somewhere between 12 billion and 15 billion land rents, and the budget is not filled with this land rent, it was filled before. In whose hands the rent, we see today who has 100 to 150 acres of land today. The other one. I think if you count that around every gas pipeline, the pipeline.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u63	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u64	a 100 meters on one side and on the other, i.e. 200 meters, I say again, is 40 percent of Ukraine's ore land of 34 million. The state loses up to 30 billion in this way. So I think that Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska, speaking out correctly, said we need to review the Earth Code and Parliament has to work to make these serious amendments to the Earth Code, so that this land that these gas-, oil-, other wires are going through is government. And the state has to fill its budget on account of what belongs to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u65	Thank you. Paul Gnatovich Sulkovski will speak, please. This is going to be the final performance. From Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know that this project has been very difficult to prepare and run by the Main Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations. This law really needs Ukraine. But this project, I want to inform the National Deputies that he was, in fact, seriously worked on the committee, and yet the committee has accepted him with enormous refinements on the First Committee for consideration in the Supreme Council. But despite the fact that there were very many questions and suggestions for the first reading, nevertheless, the bill in question needed a serious revision to the second reading. So today, to vote only on the first reading, I'm making a proposal, and our committee, and the authors still have to work seriously and accept it more fully. What about the proposals made by colleagues today, largely by the maximum amount of land available under all these pipelines, to be passed on to government property? In fact, I don't think it's going to be that easy to do that today, because most of the land, it's already scattered and private property. Another thing that can work with these landowners is that you can actually buy them out today -- the only mechanism where these lands can, of course, be clearly taken under the control and ownership of the state. So I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading with a follow-up to the second reading. To conclude, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I would also like to address you as the Head of the Supreme Council and would like to inform my colleagues, the National Deputies, that today, when I attend a meeting today, I have met no national deputy from the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine” who would also like to express themselves today and make really serious proposals because we know that many deputies and factions of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine” want to work in Parliament, but the Head of the “Blok of Yulia Timoshenko” of Yulia Timoshenko himself means that he does not allow the national deputies of those who want to work and honor them by not letting them into parliament. So I think that a few days later, almost half of the faction, of the one and the other, "The Yulia Tymoshenko Block" and "Our Ukraine" -- after all, the people's deputies are willing to enter parliament, join the coalition and work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u67	Well, Paul Gnatovich, continue this work regarding the clarification of the rights of deputies. And let us touch upon the subject that is being discussed today. The point is that in the debate and in the question to the reporters, there were actually two problems: one of them is regulated by this law, which is the legal regime of land that goes under pipelines and other pipelines, and the other is the protection of the pipelines themselves. And this is also a very important issue. Obviously, it will need to be considered separately. Because today we have many risks associated with the existence of such a dense network of products in Ukraine. And there's only enough ammonia to make sure that, God forbid, there's some kind of accident, we're going to have Chernobyl with flowers. So we need to re-establish the entire regime that was to be carried out there when these ammonia pipelines were in place. And the fence, and the guards, and the constant rotation, and so on. Because these are extremely serious things. But it's a subject of something else. And with regard to this law, there were only proposals regarding the adoption of it in the first reading and preparation for the second reading. I think Parliament will support this proposal and the drafters of the bill, and the committee, and the speakers. I'm voting on Project 2404 to adopt it in the first reading. Please. [[11:44:48]] For 244 The law is adopted in the first reading. There's an offer: we've got Law 3073 and then Law 3390. In view of the fact that the head of the subcommittee, the rapporteur on this issue, Gnatenko Lev Mikolaiovich will continue to be involved in, say, the case that concerns the Supreme Council in court, allowing him to speak now and then we will consider question 3073. There's no objection, is there? Since this procedural issue is simple and can be arranged to do so, I am asking for a 3390 registration number. This is a government draft law: amending article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service (for compensation for the cost of maintenance of military personnel). Report to the head of the subcommittee, the National Security and Defence Committee, Gnatenko Lev Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u68	Honourable Alexander Alexander, Honourable People's Deputies of Ukraine, National Deputy Leo Gnatenko, National Security and Defence Committee. The need to adopt amendments to article 25 of the Ukrainian Law on Military Duty and Military Service has been triggered by the recent increase in the trend towards higher education and the national cost of higher military training institutions by Ukrainian citizens who do not plan to continue their professional career as an officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. More than 20 percent of young officers leave the ranks of the Ukrainian Armed Forces in the early years of military service after completing their military training and obtaining an officer’s rank. ideologies are very simple, after entering a higher military education facility with Ukrainian citizens, students in higher education institutions are contracted to undergo military service, that is, training, at the time of training in a military educational institution. According to the Ministry of Defense's budget, the budget for maintaining and providing training for trainees and officers at a higher education facility is set at about 15,000 dollars per year per student and an average of 32,000 dollars per officer. Regrettably, after graduating from a university and receiving an officer’s appointment, after serving a few months or one or two years in the Ukrainian Armed Forces, the officer submits a release report. The requirements of article 25 of Ukraine’s current law on military service and military service were formally met, namely, the first contract for training in higher military institutions had been completed; and the second, the absence of a precedent for violating the law of nonrefoulement from continuing to serve in the officers ’ station after the completion of the higher educational institution. The conclusion is simple: At the expense of the State and the budget of the Ministry of Defence, quality higher education has been received, and the Armed Forces have never received a highly prepared replenishment with an officer’s warehouse. Honourable MPs of Ukraine, the addition to article 25, is a measure called upon to protect the Ukrainian Armed Forces from those who wish to use impure laziness in Ukraine's legislation. The bill therefore proposes that article 25 be supplemented by the following substance. “The officers who are released from military service within five years of the completion of a higher education institution or military teaching unit of a higher education institution, in accordance with paragraphs “e”, “e”, “e”, “e”, “e”, “and” part six of this law, shall be compensated by the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and by other central executive bodies subject to these educational institutions, for the costs of maintaining them in a higher educational institution in accordance with the order and standards established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. “ I don’t know I want to explain what the letters “e”, “e”, “e”, “e”, “e”, “and”. The letter “e” is an exemption due to official irresponsibility. “E” – in connection with the indictment of a court that gained legal power. “J” – in connection with the waiver of military service in disciplinary order. And "e" is due to systematic non-compliance with the terms of the contract. The introduction of these changes in the law will first increase the responsibility of all those who wish to receive higher education at the expense of the State in military higher education institutions. And the second. Solve the problem of executing a government order to prepare an officer’s warehouse for the quality and assurance of the Ukrainian Armed Forces by young officers. The implementation of the bill does not require additional costs from the State, local budgets. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports its adoption. In this regard, the National Security and Defence Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommends the adoption of the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and its adoption as a basis for further preparation for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u69	The question is to the reporter? Please, I see two hands, three more loyally, Baranowski, Tarasov and Savosin, and Alexandrovska, four, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u70	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! The Socialist faction of Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter! Does the bill provide for the reimbursement of funds that have been spent if he does not continue to refuse to serve in the armed forces? Because we have in us a faction of precedents in the party, we taught Winsky, we taught all the courses around him, then went to the BUT faction, there he breaks it down today, and he rapes people so they can write statements about leaving the deputies, and he didn't file a statement with us, and he didn't apply accordingly for an exit from the deputies, and the money doesn't want to pay back what the party spent on him until they learned something. So what's it like in this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u71	I think that's what this bill provides for, and I think that with respect to people like that, we have to adopt a similar law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u72	Please, Savosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u73	National Deputy of Ukraine Savosin, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Hmelnickin Please tell me, does the bill provide for the repayment deadlines to be reimbursed for the violations?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u74	There are two moments. The first point is that the amount spent on teaching is divided into five years. That is, if a person has served for four years, he will return six thousand dollars to the state. She's served three years, she's returning 12,000 dollars, that's the system. Six thousand dollars a year, which he did not serve as an officer of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. So this system is set up by the Cabinet of Ministers and established standards that are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for each of them. That's why I think that the system is democratic and it meets two requirements, the first is the responsibility of someone who goes to a higher education institution. And secondly, it's a democratic requirement, if you've studied at a higher education facility, or then you've been disappointed in military service, you've got a chance to spare the state what the state has spent on you from the State Budget and you can choose a new path in civil society.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u75	Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u76	The faction of Ukraine's Soccer. Vladimir Tarasov. Dear Lev Nikolayevich, I had a meeting with a group of voters on Sunday, former military officers serving from 6 to 7 years of age, who are being demobilized from the army today, but they have a desire to return. But the problem was that they were demobilized because they were people who were involved in aviation because they were used in virtually non-military matters that they had studied and owned. In some ways, your bill provides for such approaches to return people who are willing to serve and want to, and physically, and trained, and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u77	The law on military duty and military service itself “provides” such a moment. That is, we can return to the ministry by reporting to the minister of defense. And the problem that you're raising, the problem was raised when the government order didn't match the military reform program, it's the "greatest" problem and it touched the judges, very many officers of the Ukrainian Armed Forces. That is why I think this is possible, but with the release of so many officers, in connection with the implementation approved by the President of the Armed Forces Reform Program, there is a problem today that is not very easy to return to the Ukrainian Armed Forces. But the experts who want it, I think it's a legal possibility.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u78	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u79	Alexandrovsky. The Communist faction, Mr. Harkov. Lev Nikolaevich, I think your law is actually too harsh, I would understand these measures very well if we had a full contractual system. Then, yes, there are economic conditions, a treaty, under certain conditions, a person assumes certain functions, there is no such thing today. Moreover, we know that there are a lot of problems in the army, today the conditions of officers, officers, yes, military personnel in the army, very heavy, no housing. The State does not fulfil its obligations vis-à-vis the military, but is in principle fair to the military, that is, the grounds for your reference, there, the service mismatch, disciplinary measures, and so on. That would be correct, but on the other hand, the State was not fulfilling its economic obligations to officers and military personnel. Moreover, deprivation of liberty, i.e. arrest, entry into force of indictment. Criminal responsibility occurs in different cases, there is no caution, there is an unhappiness. And so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u80	I'll probably start with the last one. So I'm answering Russian in Russian, so it's easier for me, I guess. I'm answering from the last one. So clearly, the law clearly has a degree in criminal offences, i.e. there, I just didn't read it, but it's all deciphered and done democratically enough. From the point of view of the officer's situation today, what can I say? I think you're all well aware that here and our guilt with you is probably that we don't provide enough for the Armed Forces to put enough money into the budget. In fact, we have not controlled with you our recommendations of parliamentary hearings on housing for military personnel, and a mass of other issues. There is also the opposite side of the medal. You do realize that higher education is essentially shrinking a lot today, you know that. And the number of officers who are preparing today is getting smaller and smaller every year. And 20 percent of the 10,000 people who cooked.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u81	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u82	I'm sorry. The amount, and today's number of officers, who are preparing 20 per cent to compensate for nothing. And we get a build-up every year, not a team of junior officers, and thus we destroy the system in the State. Therefore, the four points on which they are entitled have the right to be held accountable, out of the 18 points written there, I think that is not too harsh. It's served. I just want to say, you know, I started lieutenant service for six people in one room, boots, everything else, no soul, nothing, we served Rodin. I think it should be simple. I think we'll make the officer's profession more prestigious with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u83	Thank you, sit down, please. Who wants to comment on this? Please sign up. They expressed their desire to speak up to Bogchuk and Sulkowski. Please, Vasil Stepanovich. Do they still individually want to make a statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u84	Vasil Bogchuku, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies. We all know that military schools are often a haven for carefree people who want to get higher education, to eat, to dress at the expense of their education. Having forgotten about the oath, the need for knowledge to be used in the service of Ukraine, as it is said, to “help with the hand” of its mother and the Armed Forces as a whole. What I said you'd do was make a mistake. When tens of thousands become so deluded, it becomes a pillage of the state by mother's sons, which is nothing more than a “cancer tumor ” of society. Therefore, I consider the amendment to the Law on Military Duty and Military Service, namely, that the trainees, in the event of the early termination of the contract because of the unwillingness to continue their studies, or because of non-discipline and if they refuse to continue to serve in the military service in the positions of officers after the completion of the higher education institution. As well as officers who have been released from military service for five years following the completion of a military institution or military training unit of a higher educational institution, the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and other central authorities of the executive branch, which are subordinated to these educational institutions, are reimbursed for the costs associated with their maintenance in a higher educational institution. In accordance with the order and regulations established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in the event of the refusal of voluntary reimbursement of expenses, such compensation should be made in a compulsory and judicial manner. And it's all fair and fair. I believe that this bill should have a positive impact on the financing of military units that today require additional financial inflows. I also believe that these compensations, the reimbursement of these expenses, should fill not only the military force's budgets, but also fill other units where there are such cases, that is, with regard to both the administration of the State Department and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and the State Border Services, and also the Security Service, State and Special Transportation Services, and so on. I believe that this bill needs to be supported in the first reading, or perhaps even in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u85	Ladies and gentlemen, a half-hour recess is announced. At 12:30 a.m., we continue the meeting. Next is Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u86	We continue to work and the word is Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski, you can go to the rostrum, Paul Gnatovic, you will be shown on television. People hear it all the time, and few know it's one of the most active deputies in the coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, you know that in recent times, almost two months Parliament has been working well, adopting valuable laws, the President has signed in most of the laws that these laws are actually being passed in favour of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. And it's very strange that we've just been looking at an extremely necessary law for military personnel today. And it's very interesting that most of the time, all ministries and departments come to Parliament, report, take part in the discussion of individual laws, draft laws and so on. And with regard to this bill, which we are currently considering at number 3390, it is very interesting that Mr. Grizzenko, Minister of Defence, is not only ignoring to come to Parliament and to participate in and make his proposals to the Department of Defense, he is not even able to send his deputies or other officials to the Ministry of Defense. So, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I would like to make my own opinion, I don't know if the coalition of parliament will support or not support it, but I think, in this department and this official, the so-called Democrat and Patriot, it's time to go to Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, first of all, to listen to his behavior, why he doesn't appear with his authority in Parliament and he doesn't take part in legislative activities, in the drafts that apply to military officials. He is well aware that no parliament in Ukraine during its years of independence, the first parliament, the first assembly, the fifth vocation, has paid the highest attention to the vitality of the military. And to ignore today, and not to come, not to participate in the drafting and adoption of bills, I think it's an anti-State policy, and that's why we need the Cabinet of Ministers to give, first of all, an evaluation of this cabinet member of ministers for this kind of behavior in their activities. And it's time to listen to him in the Supreme Council about being in the position of the minister, because he's giving too many comments to politics.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u88	Thank you. I'd like to go closer to the content of the law. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich. Please. After him, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u89	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. I support this bill. Of course, we should step up, improve the work of the educational community, which should aim at inculcating a sense of patriotism and responsibility toward the Fatherland and the people, and increase attention to solving the social problems of officers and their families. But as practice has shown, it is also necessary to apply the administrative influences proposed in the government bill in reasonable proportions. It's a normal practice to settle labour disputes under conditions, especially the transition of our Armed Forces into a contractual form of special warehouse assembly, etc. With regard to failure to perform the duties of the State, as mentioned by Alla Alexandrovna, this is indeed the case, but this does not remove the responsibility of those involved in this minor change to just one article of the law on military duty and military service. That's why I think it's necessary, this bill, to accept it. And I think it could be accepted at the same time as a whole. Because there's nothing to be done around him, and there's no need to prepare for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u90	Baranovsky. There's a Bulba instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u91	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I have a two-way view of this bill, let me be clear. Why? Because, despite Mr. Grizzenck's statement that the social protection of military officers, officers, military graduates, Mr. Grizzenko even shaved on this point, said he was finally waiting for the moment when he could shave. It seems that he was unable to raise his salary, more loyally, in the government of Timoshenko or in the government of Yehanurov. But on the other hand, the problem really is. Because lately, despite the fact that those who want to serve in the army are getting smaller and smaller, despite the fact that the officers are trying to get rid of the armed forces because they're not being set up by that, that social defense, that standard of living that they can provide for themselves and their families, they're still willing to go to military schools to get good specialties for free and then they're leaving the army. And that, after all, leads us to have a huge compendium of officers on lower, lower military posts that need to be replaced. So I wouldn't rush to, let's say, accept it immediately. But I think he needs further work, consideration, and we need to solve this problem, understanding that there is a public need for adoption of this law, but there are also problems young officers that our state is unable to provide properly, and with money and social protection, and sometimes they have to try to get rid of the need to serve in the Armed Forces. This was not the case before, but this has become a fact in today’s Armed Forces. And so you can solve the problem of course. But, on the other hand, only in increasing the social protection of military personnel in our desire and when we make service and honor and well-assured, only then can we solve the problems of such order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u92	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, who are watching and listening to our broadcast! These proposals to amend the Law on Military Duty and Military Service are of great concern to me personally. I think it is entirely wrong to ask this question today. Why? Indeed, on the one hand, the State does not fulfil its obligation to the military. On the other hand, in a direct state, today those who have taken up their patriotic duties in the army have been expelled from the army. And on the third hand, the State is still trying, sorry for that expression, to break some amount, so to speak, of course, it's still a piece of money for the State, and for people it's not a piece of money, to tear it down and punish it with another ruble. If the State's relations with these people were economic, purely economic, i.e. contracts, treaties and so on, then another matter. In fact, there is no such relationship. Second. Let's do an analogy with civilians. In fact, people must be equal in their rights. Today, people receive higher education free of charge and are not distributed because unemployment does not allow them to be employed. Young people want to find a job, want to get a job, the State does not create such conditions for young people and young people today. Let us look for the money that we have allocated to their education in order to increase their intelligence. The logic of this law says that this should be the question. Right? It's not right. Therefore, this law cannot be supported in any way. If there are certain problems that need to be addressed, the relations between the military and the State and the ministries must be sought for a solution, a way of compromise. But in such a way, no law can be passed. Because we know today, indeed, that an officer has been educated, he has committed a crime, he lives without an apartment, the money is not that big, so to speak, life is hard enough. Let us speak, and the military's technical weaponry today is such that it is not interesting for an officer today to be a real military engineer, today he has no ability to apply his intelligence, because today and military technology are virtually non-existent, it is not improving or evolving. So when a man has a sword hanging over him, that he will be fired when someone needs it, and when he's not ready for it yet, he starts looking for exits, and he's really starting to think for himself how to get out of the army, and he finds ways, including making decisions about service mismatches. But we have to understand that man has been placed in such conditions. This law is not lawful today in terms of the rights of Ukrainian citizens, and it is not equal in terms of civil service. And there are even more serious circumstances over the soldiers that I have just talked about. That is why such a law cannot be adopted today. Thank you for your attention. The Communist faction doesn't support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u94	We're done discussing this project. I'd like us to find a golden middle here when we consider this bill. First of all, we can't express ourselves categorically about the situation that happened today with the training of military personnel, particularly the training of officers. And what one of the deputies called even such a sharp virus is a cancerous tumor or whatever, it's a phenomenon when they leave their military jobs, when they go into civilian service, we're going to say that, you can't use things like that, because there are different circumstances. And obviously we should see how planning for the training of officers coincides with the need of the Armed Forces. Perhaps this is because about 30 percent of the young military specialists do not remain. Maybe that's the reason. On the other hand, the general situation in the Armed Forces may also have raised a degree of mistrust in choosing such a young person’s fate. In this case, I can refer to the example of neighbors who, for example, have tested new strategic weapons, sold, sold, say, in India, super-modern aircraft, and provided for the assembly of military forces with that kind of technology. It all comes back to the authority of the military. He realizes he's involved. Thus, it gives him the right feelings and sense of prestige in this specialty. And if our leadership says that in two years, the army will break down, then who wants to go into the structure that will break down? I think these are connected things. And here we should not call abstractly for patriotic feelings to arise. They don't come out in an empty place. Before that, much effort must be made and effort must certainly be made by the State. On the other hand, obviously, the percentage of people who don't go to serve after they've been educated, there are those who want to take advantage of the situation in some way, because it's safer to get a good qualification and then. In the past, this problem did not arise when everyone studied at the expense of the budget in civilian higher education institutions and in the military. Today, the situation has changed, so this would obviously have to be taken into account. So the proposal made by the developers of this project is not to rush into the final adoption of it, you can accept it in the first reading and then look at it. If we can find the answers to the problems that we have heard here during the discussion, then we can adopt the law. If we can't find it, then we can just take it off and not look at it any further. There are different options, I'd like to define myself on this. And so I'm voting on Project 3390 to adopt it on the first reading as a basis. [[12:48:50]] For 227 Decision taken. 3073. Well, please, the coalition voted that way. 3073 is a draft law amending the Advertising Act (social advertising). Bondarenko Olena Anatolyevna is? None. So we're not looking at this project until there's a reporter. Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity, 3185. There is a deputy minister of the economy, Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! You are being reviewed by the draft Act amending the ninth article of the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. The bill is designed to introduce licensing for the production of motor and fuel-diesel petrol and their wholesale and retail trade. The need for such a state regulation is due to the fact that a large part of diesel and diesel fuel in Ukraine’s internal market does not meet the requirements of quality and safety standards. More than 70 percent of the gas - fuel - station manufacturers tested sell petroleum products that violate the rules and regulations established by law. Individual enterprises that do not have the necessary material and technical base not only release inconvenient fuels, but also use different schemes to avoid paying off the excise congregation. As a result, the owners of vehicles bear unwarranted additional costs for car repairs, the State budget loses about 120 million dollars a year, at least in connection with the use of individual subjects in the management of shadow production schemes and the implementation of light petroleum products. At the same time, conscientious oil - market operators suffer from unsustainable competition, and the population suffers from unjustified increases in environmental pollution. It is not possible to solve this problem solely by strengthening the control of the State’s territorial authorities, since the human resources of these organs allow one filling station to be checked not more than once every four years. That's why the government was asked to draft this bill, even though we understand that this is just a component of a complex of measures that would secure the market from both non-quality oil products and from the unsightly behaviour of the sellers of these oil products. Considering that the implementation of the law will help to reduce sales in the internal market of inefficient petrol for motor and diesel fuels, it will reduce pollution of the environment, as well as eliminate the costs of landowners and citizens to repair motor vehicles associated with the use of low - quality motor fuels, please commend the proposed draft law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u96	What are some questions for the reporter? Please write down who has the questions. Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u97	Tell me, please, are these underground factories that produce, well, without a license, petroleum products, where they take crude oil?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u98	Thank you. The fact is, the sources of such oil can be completely different. This could be a raw material that's imported and then sold on the internal market of Ukraine, it could be an internal mining. Because you know that some of the oil is mined in Ukraine. The point is that we now have 7 large oil producers and more than 100 oil - producing entities according to Minpalevenergo’s information. Today, the production and sale of oil products in Ukraine is not licensed — that is, no one produces the rules that guide these subjects in the internal market for petroleum products. This is a bill that allows for control and national regulation of all oil - producing subjects and sells them to every gas station. And then we do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u99	Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u100	Sergei Andreevich, I have two questions, if you don't mind. Question number one: Are the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry of the Economy really confident that licensing will avoid all the problems you have discussed? That's the first question. The second question is that licensing, by your logic and by your reasoning, is subject to those enterprises whose activities are in the field of criminal law rather than regulatory law, not to the law governing economic relations. Perhaps this proposal is precisely what it is about the fact that those bodies that should deal with the problem are not well placed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u101	On the second question. The issue was that there had been every possible proposal to strengthen administrative control over such violations. And according to the State standard checks, 70 per cent of the charging stations today are in violation of legislation. Some fines are imposed on them, but unfortunately this does not lead to an orderly work, because today's petrol-produced entities are, let's say, in a car, at a gas station, it's 6,000. Given the number of employees in the State standard, they can control one filling, i.e. return to recheck only four years from now if they check systematically everything. We suggest that, because many entities are either large traders or producers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u102	Let me finish. But you need to speak immediately. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u103	We propose to control the entire chain, from the import of petroleum products into Ukraine or the production of them directly in Ukraine to the realization. As far as this is concerned, it will solve the whole problem. No, I have already said that this is part of the system that we are in favour of today in order to improve control and public regulation in this market.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u104	I'll give Dry Time to ask. But then I'd like to ask you to write down this: “The production of motor gasoline, including mixed and diesel fuels, wholesale and retail trade in motor gasoline, including mixed and diesel fuels.” This is the content of the situation, the content of the changes to the law. Where are the imports and so on? This is very much like an extra control that opens up great prospects for individuals. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u105	No, Alexander Alexanderovich! The point is that our domestic factories work both on imported raw materials and on oil produced directly in Ukraine. So in manufacturing, if this production is licensed, it will guarantee a certain degree of quality of production. And the licensing of sales will accordingly allow quality control at the filling station.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u106	Please, I'm dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u107	I actually wanted to go on with the question, Alexander Alexanderovich, your point is that forging gasoline or fuel is the same thing as forging vodka, it's crazy profits for money, and it's definitely what stationary manufacturers do, it doesn't have to be said that someone in the garage is chasing Sam, it's all nonsense. And you can explain, please, how the introduction of this license will reduce, it's a scary number, 70 percent of the violations. That's 70 percent of broken cars, destroyed engines, catalysts, that sort of thing. Why, that's the first question. And the second. Why, then, are law enforcement authorities not involved in examining things that are of criminal origin. What it means once every four years is just not serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u108	As far as the tests are concerned. I reiterate that today there are more than 6,000 gas stations in Ukraine. And the State standard can't verify it, but it's the tip of the iceberg. Today, the State Consumer checks only the documentation that is available, and it does not check the quality of the gasoline that comes from the gas station. Even. If there's a fraction of the oil products are missing on the ASA, there's no children anywhere, and it needs to be disposed of, and no one's doing that. So licensing will just give you the opportunity to put all of this under more strict control.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u109	Then I have one more question, because I have the committee's conclusions. There is a law on standards, there is a law on State oversight of standards, norms and rules. On television, we see a constant commercial on this subject as a strict representative of the state comes in, checks everything in order at the gas station, and so on. Is this method not used, or how?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u110	Alexandre Alexandrovich, he's used, but in order to do a thorough system check, you need to increase the number of employees who will be doing exclusive control of AZS. So we figured out, and it's going to be, let's say, if it comes to AZS, then the budget costs have, or let's say, 80 percent of all the state-of-the-art population of the consumer is going to be exclusively fueled, or it's going to take more than 30 million dollars to get additional employees to do that. But it may be possible to make the matter more effective by introducing licensing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u111	Thank you. Have a seat. The word is given by Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u112	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. The Industrial Policy Committee considered Bill 3185 at its meeting and decided to reject the bill. What's the reason? Indeed, the problem of poor petroleum products is enormous. The problem that we have today in Ukraine and to address this problem is not a clearly structured system. But to say that there is no built-in legislative framework, I'd rather say a little differently. We kind of have a legislative framework in one plane, and life goes on in a completely different plane. And the fact that we today have poor products, petroleum products and the processing of petroleum products does not mean that there is no legislative framework, once again, but that there is no system for monitoring their implementation and the desire to do so, and the degree of responsibility for the implementation of those laws. The Government is proposing an option that, let us say, somehow introduces this system into a certain plane and changes to the ninth article, i.e. the licensing mechanism. Of course, on the part of you, let's say that the official's office would seem to be managing the process. The manufacturer comes to obtain licences, there is an opportunity, let us say so, look him in the eye, there is a possibility of a licensing procedure and a relative control system. But there's no way that tomorrow we're going to get a good-quality product, tomorrow we're going to get a good-quality product, and that getting a license that costs 340 bracelets for almost five years is literally a word that this manufacturer that is going to do is going to appreciate that license and will comply with all the rules and requirements that are set out there. It would not be easier to go along the path of what the Committee said in its comments, there was a law on consumer rights protection, there was a decree on State oversight of compliance with standards, rules, rules and rules in accordance with which they were violated. It would not have been easier to increase fines, nor would it have been easier to increase the system of responsibility and control. Because exactly the same system, as the Deputy Minister for the Monitoring of Compliance with Standards and Licensing Rules has just mentioned, exists and needs the same system for the implementation of standards for the quality of products produced. The Committee therefore decided to reject the bill because it did not resolve the problem. We could, in my personal opinion, agree to review this law for re-reading, consider it not in the scope of changes in licensing, but in some other area, leaving the problem that it really is and by developing an integrated law that would solve this problem. Therefore, we suggest that we either reject it or send it back for the first time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u113	Thank you. Anyone who wants to make a statement on this subject, please write it down. Garbage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u114	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! I told Matvienkov, we've really been looking at this bill on our committee, and we've unanimously rejected this bill because it doesn't solve the very problem of the quality of gasoline and the oil materials that our consumers, the Ukrainian citizens, consume. In our view, when we discussed this bill on the committee, we drew the attention of the authors who were present, and representatives from the Cabinet of Ministers, that the introduction of this bill does not solve this problem, and they add to this problem to some extent. Because the mechanism that's being implemented for 800 entities that are working in the field of implementation and about 6,000 points where there's an optical and fragmented trade in fuel-oil materials, and those mechanisms that are being proposed or that are being offered in our country today, they don't, they don't have enough machinery to control this issue. And this is a question not only of fuel-oil materials today in our country, but also of other products that are in our market. This was also said about liquor products, products of a different nature, that don't exactly fit standards or qualities. So I support the idea that we can turn the bill back to the author, the Cabinet of Ministers, or with him to our committee to draft a law that would actually be able to regulate this important area. We all agree that the non-quality products, the petroleum products that are in our market today, are harming not only the technical products that use these fuel-oil materials, but the main ones, they are damaging the environment. And, of course, the mechanisms that the state-of-the-art uses today, it doesn't have enough influence on this situation, and it's, in my opinion, very terrible in our, our state. So I would suggest that this problem be considered more broadly in terms of understanding this problem, as a national problem and, in fact, to work out a law that would regulate production, implementation and consumption in the complex, because the introduction of a license would not really improve the state of this problem in our internal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u115	Thank you, you. It was said that those who wanted to express themselves seemed to have matured into deputies. Regarding a situation that reminds me of a recent anecdote, I read something on the Internet: My father and his son bought a car and fueled one of the trucks for three days, and then the motion died. Father takes the book on the technical conditions of car service and says to his son: “From now on, son, this will be our Bible.” What my son says is, "No, Dad, this is going to be our camasutra." So I'd like to make sure that by regulating some kind of relationship in society, we can see whether it's going to be a positive result, whether it's going to be a positive result, whether it's going to be a law or not. Looks like he's not gonna bring it in. If we predicted a new level of interaction in the law today, for example between the producer and the producer, that there would be a mutual responsibility, that they would argue with each other if, say, at the gas station once the state standard checked whether it was from the consumer committee or closed the second time, he would know who to take the goods from. And if goods are delivered in a bad way, then it's easy to get to the source of this lack, let's say it's actually a criminal phenomenon in society. That's right. So there was an offer, and I see it from the committee, from the pre-workers to send this project. I'm voting on this proposal, please. [[13:10:00]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. There's a draft Act amending the Law on Prevention and Opposition of Legalization of Proceeds by Crime, which is a re-reading of the first reading. Reported to the chairman of the Committee on Combating Organized Crime and Corruption by Giga Mikola Vasilovich. It's a government project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u116	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, are invited! The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition of the Legalization of Proceeds Received by Crime provides for further improvement of domestic legislation aimed at the deprivation of proceeds of crime and the means of obtaining them and combating the financing of terrorism. It should be noted that today’s consideration of making changes to the basic law is already 5 and its scope, and its content is the most thorough. If 19 amendments have been made since the adoption of the law, today’s bill proposes three times more than 60 amendments, including 168 proposals. The committee carefully and comprehensively examined the changes proposed by the government and concluded that it was appropriate to maintain them. Which gives us the adoption of this bill: First. Financial monitoring subjects will work exclusively in the legal field in accordance with the requirements of the Council of Europe and European societies, which are based on 40 and 9 recommendations of the group on financial measures to combat money - laundering, or FATF. The other one. The absolute sterility of a financial transaction separates its participants from their involvement in the activities of the supervisory and law enforcement authorities. What needs to be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. It's important. Determine, in accordance with the requirements of article 85, part 1, paragraph 33, of the Constitution of Ukraine, the legal principles governing the exercise of parliamentary control over financial monitoring by entities in the field of prevention and countering the legalization of income and the financing of terrorism. Consideration of the official considerations of the National Bank of Ukraine and the Association of Ukrainian Banks regarding the bill will also be useful. Some editorial details need some proposed changes, as noted in the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which supports the government's proposal to adopt the bill as a basis. Dear colleagues! Ukraine is a party to the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Confiscation of Proceeds Received by Crime in 1990. In November 2005, Ukraine signed the European Council Convention on the Laundering, Search, Arrest and Confiscation of Proceeds from Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, which complements and develops the 1990 Council of Europe Convention, in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 1373 on Threats to International Peace and Security caused by Terrorist Acts and the International Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism. The adoption of the law proposed by the government will speed up ratification by Parliament of the updated Council of Europe Convention. The Supreme Council of Ukraine on 20 March of this year, following a preliminary review by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of the draft Ukrainian Law amending the Law on Prevention and Opposition to the Legalization of the Proceeds of Crime, has adopted a decision to refer it to the Committee for the next re-examination of the first reading. But Parliament has not defined how this is provided for in part three of article 109 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the basic positions, principles and criteria to be met by the amended bill. No proposals and amendments have been made to this draft since the draft law was previously reviewed by the legislators. Thus, the committee was deprived of the possibility of submitting a new bill to Parliament. Let me remind you that the main objective of the bill is to improve the instrumentation of the domestic regulatory, supervisory and monitoring regime for preventing and preventing money-laundering and financing terrorism. As a result, the committee unanimously decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a bill submitted by the Government in the first reading, provided that the decision to review the re-first reading was repealed on 20 March. Such a draft decision is offered to your consideration for discussion and acceptance. Please support the committee's proposal to adopt a draft decision by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the annulment of the previous decision on this issue and adoption on the basis of the government's draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Prevention and Opposition to Legalise the Proceeds Received by Crime." [[Registration number 2847 with index P-1]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u117	Mikola Vasilovich, before you are asked questions first, I will ask you a question about the procedure for considering this document. We've been looking at it in March, and this is a government project introduced in December, and we've sent it for reprocessing for re-reading. So it doesn't make sense to make a decision to cancel this decision, because it's done if you've worked on a project. And that's why we're only going to have to cut it down to the word "take as a base" and so on, and not talk about cancelling, or we're going to have to repeat the best examples. That's the first one. And the other one. But the project is we have the one that was introduced in December, I'm looking at the text here, the truth is that the deletion is done. How, then, does it differ from what was introduced in December? Please answer this question, and then write down who wants to ask the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u118	Because when the Supreme Council, the Supreme Council, and the subjects of law did not make any proposals. Therefore, the committee decided that it should be taken as a basis for the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u119	No change?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u120	No change. No, with changes and additions, of course.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u121	I mean, are there any changes to the draft Amendments Act or aren't there?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u122	No, they didn't come from anyone, Alexander Alexandrovich. Take it as a basis and work it out on a committee that takes into account the proposals that came from the Science and Export Authority, and then re-read it to the Supreme Council and adopt it as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u123	I understand. I think it's just a lack of committee work. What's that? If even the expert board did not change, the committee would have to take these changes into account immediately. Then it's about offerings. And yes, I don't think the committee here has worked out clearly. But the question is, are there deputies? None. That makes sense, too. Have a seat, please. Do you have any questions? Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u124	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Nikolai Vasilevich, there is no doubt that this evil must be fought. This is, I think, one of the biggest problems that exists in Ukraine today is one of the problems that hinders the normal development of both the economy and the development of our industrial base. Nevertheless, this bill is what it is proposed to do. You are saying that there has been no change, is it not because the MPs in general doubt whether it is appropriate to adopt such a form at all? What is monitoring 5,000 bracelets? What is the situation where an official determines whether or not the operation is questionable? What happens when we create seven organs that monitor actions? If this is not the case, when you know, they wanted it better, but it has always been the case that there will be a struggle not to deal with the shadow traffic that is so far, because insufficiently adapted or insufficiently found mechanisms to operate in our legal field, but to fight those who are working honestly and who are doing what is right, that it will be too much of a burden on money turnover and create.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u125	Thank you. I understand your question. I'll speak Russian too. The fact is that you understand very well that shadow money is the basis of organized crime and the basis of corruption that feeds it. And for that, we have a financial monitoring department in the State. This law is, in principle, a guiding law for them, for the Department of Financial Monitoring. It is proposed that primary financial monitoring entities recognize: National Bank, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Transport – only 7 organizations, 7 entities. I think that this is exactly the kind of supplement that will enable them to make a very good decision on the acts of this law. They will be a good tool in the hands of law enforcement and the Department of Financial Monitoring.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u126	Write down who wants to ask, because there were no wanters, now I see three. Please. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u127	Nikolai Vasilevich. [[Ivanov, faction of regions]] Please tell me how these innovations, innovations in terms of expanding the functions or rights of financial monitoring agencies are in line with the canons that FatF has told us in this case? Are they within this framework, or is it already our Ukrainian initiative and there is no such mechanism anywhere in Europe or in the world?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u128	I had already reported on the bill, saying that the amendments to the law were being introduced to the implementation of the FATF recommendations, because in all civilized European countries it was legislation that was adapted in this respect with the amendments that we wanted to make today. It's not our initiative, it's our recommendations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u129	Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u130	Mikolo Vasilovich, here I see from this project that expands the list of primary financial monitoring entities on the account of notaries, lawyers, business entities providing legal services and so on. And I also have doubts about what the people's deputy Matvienkov said, are we doing right, that we, you know, extend this approach to all categories practically, including lawyers, notaries and so on? So you won't know that he's running a normal deal there, you're putting it in a notary. And depending on his mood, you can get into a blind spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u131	Dmitri Mikitovich, I think that, well, shadow streams, they can be both private structures and state structures. And what the department's tracking down is trans shares, whether legal or not, is the department's question, it's going to depend on how the experts are determined and where the materials are, if they're located there, where they're going to go, where they're going, whether they're in law enforcement or whether there's going to be any other sanctions. But I think in order for the state to sort out the financing of the shadow economy and corruption and organized crime in the end, you have to do something a little bit deeper, and I think that's going to be corrected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u132	Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u133	Nikolai Vasilevich, please say, here is the question of amnesty and legalization of the shadow revenues received, let us say, before this law. How will this matter be addressed? That's how much debate we're having.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u134	Thank you, I understand your question. This law has nothing to do with financial amnesty. But at the next session, somewhere in the 17th or 18th number, there's a project on the list of issues brought up by the people's deputat Smitsch, which is the question of the legalization of the proceeds that are obtained by criminal means or not by criminal means, but their publication and there's a bill, it's going to be next. But this law, it has nothing to do with it and it's a slightly different direction, it's the direction of tracking illegal recalculations, it's the law that regulates the department's activities in financial monitoring. Nature is the same.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u135	Voropeyes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u136	Thank you. I have a question for you next. First of all, it's necessary or not, I'm sure it's necessary. It is needed primarily by Ukraine, it is needed. But the question is another. You say that there have been no comments on this bill and that the Committee has therefore neither finalized nor considered it in its final form. At the same time, the Committee had drawn the conclusions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office under the Act, and there were quite a few comments to it. I have worked quite hard in the Financial Monitoring Department of this bill, as if we have found on many issues the general view that it is necessary, but it needs to be changed a little bit. But the nappies can't change it now, it'll only be after the first reading. Why didn't you take into account the expert management's comments?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u137	We'll take all the comments, they're too big, they're too big, they need to be refined, and we'll be on the committee when he's back on the readout, we'll take that into account in the committee. They're too much. We're just... The committee probably couldn't just do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u138	Have a seat, please. Who wants to comment on this? Please sign up. Kalashnikov. Please, Smythech, follow him, Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u139	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Of course, the bill that we are considering right now is necessary in our country, and that's probably natural, if we're moving within a market economy, if we're moving within a civilized perception of the financial sphere of enterprise and private sector entities, this bill is certainly necessary. But I would like to emphasize the problem that I would consider that it needs to be addressed at the same time as the other side of this issue. Why do I have an opinion? The bill that I introduced earlier this year relates to the legalization of the income of natural and legal persons. And of course, if our state is in a transitional period, we certainly have a variety of reasons, starting from 86 to today, anyway, a lot of money that's accumulated in shadow traffic. According to various estimates, some say about 100 billion, 80 billion, and some say 120 billion. In my view, as I've been doing this and collecting statistics, there's over a hundred billion dollars of shadow traffic in our country. Now let's figure this out. The legislative sphere that governed the financial sphere of our business is entrepreneurship, which is subject to both state and non-state, shareholding and private enterprises, they certainly had different accumulations during that time, and a lot of money remained in the shadows. Of course, under the Ukrainian Criminal Code, all shadow traffic in the shadows falls under criminal responsibility. So I counted, coming out of the legislative initiative, that at first our state, like many other states in its time, starting with the United States of America and Russia, passed the law and gave a state guarantee at a high level, by securing it with appropriate legislative acts, by legalizing income, by allowing these accumulations that move in the shadows, so to speak, to give a legal basis for them to acquire a legal basis, by guaranteeing that they would get them, and then, accordingly, by requiring them to comply with the requirements, what Fatf is asking us to do. It's on one side. As far as the bill itself is concerned, I would suggest that, of course, this law should be adopted, but it should be adopted as much as possible on the first reading as possible, that it should be sent for further work and that it should be taken seriously into consideration by those, I think, very negative moments that are causing our subject to the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u140	Thank you. Thank you. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u141	The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! Indeed, the question raised in the form of a bill to the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is, indeed, relevant today, which concerns many deputies. And the situation that has been asked so many questions has always shown that the problem is and that the problem needs to be settled. So the faction of Communists is that at least in the first reading, this document has to be adopted in order to resolve the problem in law. And that situation that expands the list of areas of activity that are subject to monitoring, once and for all, confirms that this document really needs to be adopted, working and taking into account the many warnings that have been made today. That is, we stress once again that the document should be accepted at least in the first reading. But with that, I can't help but share two observations. You know, I've been worried lately that we have a very common problem of financing terrorism in our mouths today, where in such a context, in fact, with the aim of fighting a political opponent, or an economic competitor, it's very easy to use, anything today can be put at risk of financing terrorism. Therefore, we need to be very careful about doing so. And one more question that I would like to share with my colleagues today. You know, dear colleagues, I don't rule out this bill. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, including the request of international organizations, European organizations. You know, and I want to remind you and take a parallel with the laws that we passed with you about joining the World Trade Organization, remember, in the second session, we passed a series of 20 laws with you. They all said that the legislative base for the entry into the STO was regulated. Moreover, even parliamentary hearings were canceled. Where we could analyze the situation from the point on the state of legislative admission to the WTO. Now there are a huge number of bills in this session, and they say, "Here, if you accept them, we will accept you to the World Trade Organization." It's just that this once-in-a-lifetime testifies to the fact that we're drawn from all sides to all sides, to all strings, and we, like those puppets, respond to all these challenges. But this does not apply, for example, to the adoption of this law. I want to end with what I started, what I'm talking about is what the problem is. She needs to be normalized. And then, even though there are some warnings and observations that are included in the Communist faction, I think that the document should be accepted in the first reading and very carefully worked out, including taking into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u142	Okay. Deputies have spoken. And clearly the point of this law may be to the content of its articles. I was particularly interested in the relationship between business entities in Ukraine and foreign politicians. To the extent that it's abstractly written, it's obviously going to be very, very difficult to control. We need to look closely at the content of the law. What he's doing is he'll have to use these principles and predict it here because it details the problem. But it cannot be taken completely as a final document. So there's a proposal to support it as a first-reading project and to send it to prepare for the second reading. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. [[13:34:17]] For 225 Decision taken. Oh, sorry, not accepted. 226 votes. Can I vote? Who's in charge of voting, stand up. [[13:34:45.]] For 228 228 for the vote. I ask you to consider that the first point of the decision without the first sentence will go. The first point of the decision without the first sentence, as we agreed, is not to cancel the decision, but simply to base the project. I'm betting on the vote, please, on the first reading. [[13:35:19]] For 228 Copy that. A bill on the promotion of regional development is under consideration. I'm sorry, I was wrong about the minimum of living, it's the President's project to include in the daytime and make decisions. And that's why I'm putting to the vote the inclusion in the agenda of this project. [[13:36:06]] For 241 Is there a Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich? Please, he will report to the head of the Social Policy Committee subcommittee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u143	Dear Alexander Alexander! Respectable compatriots! The media. I want to remind you that the cost of living is a government social standard, it's calculated for citizens of different categories, for non-working, for children of different ages, for disabled people. The minimum wage, minimum pension, and other social benefits, as you can see, are a very important social standard, a social standard. I also want to remind you that the minimum of living should have been reviewed every two years. And I'm surprised that in 2005 the Federation of Trades and Other Trades viewed this norm. And so to this day, living is at least under 30 percent, and from this point on, other payments are underpaid. One second. I want to remind you that it is the Janukovic government that made a minimum pension in 2004 for a minimum of living, and this year it is approaching such important social standards as the minimum wage per cent to the minimum of living, which is 82 percent. But here from Azarov's rostrum, he said that in 2008, for the first time in 15 years, the minimum wage would be 100 percent equivalent to the minimum wage. Of course, it would have to be written in the general agreement, but again, I don't understand why there's no general agreement that ended in 2005, and now it's gone, and it's been in operation since 2003, when the government of Yanukovich signed with the former head of the Federation of Trades, which is now standing on the stand. I think we need to immediately consider the new general agreement and write down new social standards. But what the President is proposing, I want to say is that it offers a positive moment. He proposes to provide in article 5 of the Housing Minimum Act, some changes regarding the publication of monthly real estate accounts on the official Web site of the executive branch in the field of labour and social policy. And passing these calculations along with indicators of the actual monthly subsistence minimum to the President of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, towards the social dialogue. That is, when we vote for it, and I call for such a wise social proposal from the President, and I call for a vote not just on the basis of it, but on the whole. I don't think the President will sign himself, not sign the law he passed. What are we going to have? We will have to submit monitors and submit to the President every month for consideration by the Supreme Council, for consideration by the social partners, a valuable amount of living minimum, and to review other social benefits accordingly. Honestly, as a person who knows this problem well, I doubt that if you haven't looked at the minimum of two years of living, and now you don't want to see it done every month, but at least seeing this social indicator is important, this important social standard that minimum pensions, other social benefits, you have to pay. Therefore, our committee, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, invites honourable colleagues to support the President's proposal, I remind you once again, it refers to minor changes, the introduction to article 5 of the Ukrainian Housing Minimum Act every month of the cost-effective minimum, and reports of them to the President, the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the social partners, that is, the employers of the trade unions. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u144	Perhaps the question is, please, Falco and Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u145	Tell me, please, it's not very often every month, small changes will take place in a month, maybe it could have been done once a quarter?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u146	Yes, I said that's a certain doubt, but the point is that today's legislation on subsistence minimum is in place and this law records what we say is that statistics or, let's say, the Ministry of Social Policy, first of all, the Ministry of Social Policy and the work already provides such monitoring. But they put it in such a closed mode, which is not necessary for publication, and it's about publicity, let's say on the site, and maybe not just on the site, I would suggest that it be broadcast to the media to see how the cost of living has changed. And there you know what is in it: both food and payment and all that. Once a quarter would be possible, but since there's a standard once a month, the president only makes changes here to make it public, to make it public. Once a quarter, you just have to make changes to the current Housing Minimum Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u147	Clearly, Suhi Jaroslav Petrovich, Jaroslav Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u148	Thank you. There is no representative of the President of Ukraine, so I have to ask Alexander Mikolaiovich this question. You know that during the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on our fifth call, the President vetoed more than a hundred vetoes, including the 2007 Ukrainian Budget Act, which contained social guarantees and standards, where he also vetoes his laws. Where is the guarantee that this law, if we adopt it, will not be met by such bitter fate? And the second question. And you can translate into a simple available human language that will give a simple ordinary person a citizen to publish this computational dimension? Because you, Alexandre Mikolayovich, well know this is not an absolute value, it's a computational value to which we'll then bind all social benefits that have a certain margin to provide a minimum of living.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u149	Thank you, Mr. Suhi. You know, the President likes to veto social laws, and I'll tell you, if the President, on time, signed a government budget into which we've made a whole range of social changes, we probably wouldn't delay the payment of pensions, increased pensions per month, minimum wage, tariff grid to teachers. It is certainly the president's fault and his service that the citizens of Ukraine for a month have held back the large social benefits paid by the government of Yanukovich. And as far as this is concerned, this is very important, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. I'm even wondering why you're asking these questions, maybe on purpose, for the citizens to hear it. That gives us what we're talking about. If, let's say, a living minimum of 450 dollars, and the minimum wage was 35 percent at Yashchenk's premiere. In Timoshenko's time, 62 percent is clear. In the days of Yanukovic, the minimum wage is now 82.7 percent, or approaching, and the minimum pension is 100 percent. So once there's progress on the minimum of living, it's going to have to change the minimum pension, because it's 100 percent today. And if the government introduces for the first time in the history of Ukraine in 15 years, the minimum wage will be 100 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u150	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u151	Let's say the government introduces that by the new year there will be a living minimum of 528 dollars and the minimum wage will be 520 dollars -- that's very good. Because it's in a charge, in a tariff grid, which is very important social indicators. Of course, the president’s proposal to publish this subsistence minimum deserves all the support. I think the President is such a social order, unlike the ones he put it on, you know, he'll sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u152	Thank you. There are those who would like to make a statement on this subject. Cibenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u153	Thank you, Communist faction, Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans and Disabled Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the question raised today’s plenary meeting is extremely important. All of us remember that when considering the State Budget project for the year, the most intense struggle is usually around the cost of living. Although we all know very well that actually it's a little bit a little bit a little bit a little bit a little bit a little bit a little bit a little bit, because actually it's a little bit of a change in size, but it's a change in the cost of living, and it's a change in the cost of living. Nevertheless, the question is still very important. And the question is probably the first thing that comes to life is that there's no approval of a minimum of living by the Supreme Council. Unfortunately, life is developing and, in particular, the price situation is changing much faster than the ability of the Supreme Council to change the size of the subsistence minimum. And this bill, which is being submitted today, if you want to, from my point of view, it's a mechanism for modernizing the minimum of living, because if a month in the media, on the site, the actual amount of living on the Internet is going to be published, and it's going to be somewhat comparable or designed to the one that is de facto approved by the Supreme Council, it's probably one of the mechanisms that's going to push both the Supreme Council and the society, and we're with you as a deputy corps, so that the minimum of living is still more accurately consistent with the actual state of affairs in today's life. So I am absolutely convinced that this document must be accepted. In addition, I would like to stress once again that perhaps the government today should look at and, let's say, the entities that are taking part in agreeing on the minimum wage approval mechanism should today look at those indicators that are being put into the process of developing the minimum wage, because there are such things in the form of a decision that is the mechanism for calculating the minimum wage, which even from this rostrum is a shame to call them. And that's why I think it's parallel to what we're voting today, at least in the first reading of this document, we probably need to look at that determination that's at the heart of the calculation of the subsistence minimum in order to really, really modernize it, and that it's more suited to the realities of today's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u154	Thank you. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, Bondarczuk, the Social Party faction, the head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. As said by Alexander Mikolaiovich, reporting on this bill, the committee is unanimously supported, and this indicates that we are objectively approachable to the consideration of presidential bills. Its acceptance is intended to ensure greater publicity in this matter, because people often ask questions about what is the basis and how the standard of living is set and what is the main thing that it is at the moment, what its parameters are. The publication of such data in many cases will take away these questions, and often mistaken assumptions that somehow conceal this information. And that means that it will allow better protection of citizens' rights, because it will force them to raise both the minimum wage and the rate of pensions to the minimum of living. As for Minfin's remarks, and they are there, if you've noticed, in fact, it's one that made a note of the bill at this stage, it's not in principle, because it's about what's already said in the Information Act. But I don't think it's going to interfere or be unnecessary in this law, and I think it's going to write down or write down the proposed rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u156	Thank you. Please. Are there no more willing speakers? None. Then I put to the vote a motion for a bill to be adopted by the President of Ukraine on this subject. There's a whole offer. May I vote? I'm betting on the vote as a whole. [[13:49:47]] For 257 Decision taken. It is suggested that the following question, 3109, be included in the agenda and considered. It's a law amending the Ukrainian Act on Regional Development Promotion. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal for inclusion. [[13:50:21]] For 255 Thank you. The word is given to the Deputy Minister of Economics of Romanyuk Sergey Andryovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u157	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the Promotion of Regional Development has been drafted with the aim of improving legislation on the recognition of territories of Ukraine as depressed. The need for such improvement is due to the fact that, on the basis of data from the state statistical observations over the years 2003-2005, it has been established that in the types of areas defined by law, namely regions, industrial areas, rural areas, republican cities in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and regional importance, there is no territory that meets the conditions of depression set out in the current law on the promotion of regional development. I want to say that these conditions that are defined in the law today are extremely strict. So today there are no territories in the country that for three years had the worst indicators on the criteria defined by law today. And so there's a suggestion that something would change these rather harsh conditions into softer ones, which would be compared to the averages for this type of territory. The main task of the bill is to create a legal basis for monitoring regional, regional, republican and regional development indicators. The adoption of the project will improve the methodological basis for recognizing and giving territories the status of depressed, developing appropriate programs to overcome their depression. The bill stipulates that the definition of boundary levels, or deviation from the averages, relies on the central executive body of economic policy to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. And the project also proposes to distribute monitoring to the appropriate administrative and territorial units of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, which is not in force in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u158	The question is to the reporter? None. It's in Ryzuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u159	Thank you. Sergey Andryovich, of course, is horribly aware that the Ministry of Economics and interested central executive authorities, after examining the level of depression, have found that there are no depressive areas. I understand what you just said is tough. You can only imagine how hard they are, how hard the law that we are about to change here has been taken away from real life. Tell me, please, and if we accept the government's proposals on how many depressed regions there will be, or the whole of Ukraine, or just to stimulate their development, have you previously analyzed how to get to the rostrum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u160	Yes, of course, we analyzed it. We have this analysis across all areas that are defined by law -- these are the district industries of rural cities of regional importance. And depending on what the government's deviation is going to be, whether it's 70 percent of the average of one or the other, or 60 percent, we're going to have a fluctuation in the number of such areas, depending on what amount we're going to set in the budget. For example, in 2007, for the first time, 100 million dollars were allocated under this law to overcome the depression of such territories. If the level of funding increases, we will be able to mitigate this marginal level slightly to ensure that as many areas as possible in need of state support are included in this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u161	Thank you. Please sign up for the questions, for I can see that there are questions that you would like to ask. Ivanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u162	Sergey Andriyovich, surely these changes to the law must be supported, and the faction will support these changes. I'd like to ask you a question about the following order. Please tell me this arithmetic-mechanistic method and the method of determining depression will be as far as it goes, or it will be a method developed, a method that will fully match and neutralize those warnings that Deputy Rybubu has just said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u163	Thank you for asking. It's really very important, because after that monitoring that we did in the previous year 2003-2005, there were areas that, let's say, do not raise your hand to be depressed. For example, Jaremcha, in view of the fact that the highest unemployment rate has been registered in recent years, fell arithmetically. So before a depressive program is put in place, there will be a study of why this occurs, the nature of this condition. Then the government will make the right decision. So there will be no arithmetic of such a formal approach.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u164	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mr. Petnikov Aleksei Vitaliyovich of the committee is the deputy head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u165	Dear Head, honourable national MPs, the purpose of the bill is to improve the legislation of Ukraine on the definition of depressive areas, namely the creation of a legal basis for monitoring the development of relevant territories. The legal recognition of depressive areas at the level of the lowest minimum or highest or maximum development rates of a particular territory for several years results in only one area of a particular type being defined in a given year, which limits the use of the term “depressive territory”, taking into account how the law is valid. As a result, there was an urgent need to clarify the concept of “depressive territory” and to show the development in which territories were considered to be depressed. The bill foresees that a country whose development rate is the lowest or significantly lower than the average development rate of its type is considered to be depressive. And that following changes to this law, it will allow more territories to be depressed than a valid law. The adoption of the project will enable the state aid to the areas in need, thereby helping to overcome inter-regional contradictions and the overall alignment between the development of Ukraine and Ukraine. According to the findings of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council on 15 May, the first reading of the bill could be based on the comments and suggestions made. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy at its meeting held on 16 May considered the relevant draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Promoting Regional Development and decided to recommend its adoption to the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-05-m0.u166	No questions? None. Ladies and gentlemen, you've obviously seen that the content of the law just regulates, let's say, a system of assessment of the depressiveness of the territory, and that this addition to the law would be appropriate. So if there's no one who wants to make a statement on this point, I can put to the vote a draft decree on adopting it as a basis. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[14:00:07]] For 255 Decision taken. Now it's all right, honourable deputies. The Internet news reports that Presidential Decree No. 497 on the appointment of consecutive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been issued. I read: The implementation of paragraphs 2 and 3 of the President's Joint Statement, the Head of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine on urgent measures aimed at resolving the political crisis through the holding of successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, since 27 May 2007, taking into account that since 3 June 2007 the decisions of the senior governing bodies of the political parties of the blocs of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine have been suspended by Ukraine's senior decision-making bodies of the political parties, which have been chosen from these constituencies, pursuant to part two of article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 17 October 2002 No. 17-p/2002, has resulted in the failure of the Supreme Council of the First Instance of the Constitution of Ukraine. 1. Assigning the next election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for September 30th of the seventh year. 2. The Central Electoral Commission shall ensure the preparation and conduct of the 60-day deadline for the date set out in Article 1 of this Decree, in addition to the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the Law on Elections of Ukrainian National Deputies, other laws of Ukraine. 3. The Cabinet of Ministers will provide funding for the extra-operable elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. 4. This decree takes effect from the day of its official publication. The president of Ukraine, June 5, is today. What's there to say? According to the resolution part of this decree, it is irreprehensible, everything is written as provided for by the Constitution, laws, conclusions, and so forth. And by the way, it matches the content of the statement. But part of the situation that refers to the two meetings is questionable. Not because they are questionable here, but because the decisions of the assemblies are questionable. That is why we have time to find out everything because it is flawless in the legal aspect of the decision. I hope the political forces here will find the possibility of 150 deputies resigning, as they demand. It's their business, their will, and their will, by the way, the deputies. But as far as the lists offered in this sense are concerned, we have, well at least, about a half dozen comments that don't even relate to what wasn't announced here in the session room, it was about making personal credentials or leaving the faction, and it's about people not writing any statements at all. And some of those on those lists wrote their statements that they were withdrawing their statements after April 18, they were writing these statements in the last days. And one more thing: so far, the situation in the Central Electoral Commission has not been understood by the fact that the list of parties, “Our Ukraine” in particular, has not been restored, and there are at least 44 deputies or candidates for deputies who are willing to take the place of those who have emerged from Parliament. That's why. Or who wants to break out of Parliament. That's why I'm asking for your attention! I'd like us not to say anything in this case, let's say, with the President's decree, it's his personal business. As for the settlement of the legal part of the problem, it must be settled, for it is an act that is unknown to the world’s parliamentary practice and constitutional practice, when Parliament suspends its powers in turn, not on the basis of a well - founded one, that is, not on the basis of the laws provided for, but on the subjective will of individual politicians. So I would like us to have this problem, and we still have time to figure out the nuances of this problem so that we can then act, indeed, legally irreprehensible. Because it's not just about the fact that it's about, let's say, the parliamentary elections for the term, but, for example, the dismissal of about 1,000 people who already have to get rid of the right to work in the apparatus, the structures, the assistants, the secretaries, and so on, in these factions, in the deputies of these factions, it's a very serious question. I think we should treat them accordingly. So I'm now announcing our closed session, and the next session will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
