ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Friday, 6 p.m. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:04:32]] There are 260 willing deputies registered, the rest of them absent temporarily. Thus, the morning session is open. And according to the Rules, I'd like to make a statement. They Came From Deputies Anatolya BUGAIJA to the Prime Minister of Ukraine to address the issue of compensation to the Mars farm for the cost spent on the construction of socio-cultural objects in the village of Gnilica Kharkivsk district. This is you under the Rural Development Priority Act, thank you. John BONDARCHUKA to the First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Finance of Ukraine, on the allocation of funds to the Centre for the provision of medical care to children affected by an accident in the Czech Republic at the Winnick District Children's Hospital. Thank you, Ivan Mikolaiovich, this is the hospital where we were with you, I understand. Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the verification of the abuse of office in the management of the Kakhov Central District Hospital, the violation of the rights of the hospital’s labour force, and the inaction of local law enforcement agencies. Too bad there's no Vladimir Mikolaiovich here, he's probably confirmed the need to send such a Dmitry KRUCHKOVA to the Attorney General of Ukraine regarding the improper consideration of parliamentary appeals regarding the illegal use by Ukrainian Attorney General Andrija Fajdevich of a car for its knowingly falsified confidence and pressure to investigate. This is, I think, a principle and an interesting reference or a question. Once again, Vladimir STRETOVIĆA to the Attorney General of Ukraine on the violation of the property rights of the religious community of Baptist Christians in Kiev. Vladimir YAROSCHUKA to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine on the review of the Regulations of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine of 19 July 6th year on the approval of the procedures for the provision of disabled persons by cars. The Group of Deputies (COMAR, MANKOV, CORSACOV) to the Minister for Housing and Utilities of Ukraine on the elimination of the emergency state of the Alexander Long High School in the village of the village of the village-type Sosnica of the Chernig region. Teams of deputies, namely, the same deputies, to the Ministry of Health of Ukraine regarding the allocation of medical equipment to the town of Dryzkowka Donecka oblast. Stepan CAPUCA to the head of Ukraine’s State Border Service for dissatisfaction with the reply to a parliamentary appeal. And his request to the head of the Pension Fund for violations of the constitutional rights of Ukrainian citizens and non-compliance with the laws of the executive authorities in the Kirovograd region. There are also two parliamentary requests to the National Deputy Sergey TZUKMASOVA to the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine for the violation by the National Commission on Communications Regulation of Ukraine of the violation by the National Commission on Communications Regulation of Ukraine, the legislation of Ukraine by non-information on its activities. By law, this must be done to appeal to the deputies. And his question to these same addresses about the violation by the National Communications Commission of Ukraine of article 32, paragraph 12, of the Ukrainian Radio Frequency Act. In accordance with the Rules, these requests have been properly formulated and will be sent to the authors. to the addressees for response. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a first question in mind. At last night's meeting, the MPs insisted that we make another appeal-- hasn't he yet? - Addressing the military. We will consider this question after you have received the text of the address itself. Meanwhile, we are hearing information about the meetings of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland and the Inter-Parliamentary Commission of Ukraine and the Republic of Belarus. He'll report on that. reports the deputy head of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission, Šibko Vitali Jakovic. He is the head of the International Cooperation Committee. It's about foreign policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u2	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. A fast, socialist faction. Dear colleagues, you know that in the coming days there have been two events that are very interesting to Ukraine, this is a meeting. The first meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Cooperation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus, held in Minsk from 26 to 28 March this year, as well as the third meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland held in Kiev on 20 March 2007. I would like to say that this meeting, which took place in Minsk, I would like to stress once again, is the first meeting and according to the order of the day, the participants approved the Rules of Procedure of the Commission. It was decided, according to the Rules, to form working groups and their personnel, and these working groups had such names. It's a working group from the development of national economic legislation. This is an industrial fuel-energy complex, transport, communications, agricultural sector, trade, business, investment, customs taxes, financial and other issues. The working group on the development and improvement of national social and humanitarian legislation is also an environmental, science, education, culture, health, sport, tourism, social security, migration processes, as well as a working group on policy coordination in international parliamentary organisations, national security and international problems, and a working group on interregional cooperation. It was also pointed out that it was planned to take part in a joint government commission meeting in Slavotici and Chernobyl on April 13, this year. And it was the Belarusian side that showed a desire to make that decision. You understand that this is a good cooperation for us to be fruitful in solving the mutual problems of coping with the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster. I want to inform my colleague that, in fact, the Belarusian side has some success there. And I think it's Ukraine that needs to arm these opportunities that the Belarusian side is using today to solve these problems in a positive way. I also want to point out that today is a very important process of trade and trade between our two countries. As noted at the meeting of this commission, nine border areas in Ukraine are now engaged in 70 percent of the traffic between our nations. So there's a lot going on at the local level of cross-border and cross-border cooperation. Our Ukrainian side has also expressed several wishes for the further development of these relationships. First of all, it was stressed the need to set up a work aimed at developing cooperation between Ukrainian and Belarusian regional operators in science and technology and manufacturing cooperation, to sign and monitor cooperation agreements between chambers of commerce and industry, together with relevant operators, to take steps to expand the network from the representation and the distribution services of chambers of commerce and industry, and so on. I want to point out that during this meeting and meetings we also had a very interesting question about how our treaty, signed earlier, will be ratified, about the state border. It should be pointed out that the Supreme Council of Ukraine ratified the treaty on 18/07. In 97 C.E. And the Belarusian side is currently considering this issue. And I think that here, when we discussed this issue at the meeting, we really concluded that the Belarusian side should also note this issue as necessary and positive for solving our inter-State problems. As for another event, the event that affected the meetings, the third meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland. I had already noted that this meeting was held in Kiev. And here this meeting was opened by the head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Moroz, who expressed the hope that the work of parliamentarians would be very useful for both Ukraine and Poland. He noted that the parliaments of both countries had found the best way to deepen inter-parliamentary cooperation by creating an assembly, since this form of work was more concrete and effective. I would like to point out that so far many countries have expressed their wishes to continue to cooperate on an inter-parliamentary level, not just with groups of friendships, but with the assemblies and commissions that we have with several countries, because, indeed, such a form is effective for the further development of parliamentary diplomacy. It was also pointed out that the problems of Ukrainian-Polish cross-border cooperation should be addressed. After all, there is a great deal of unsettled time, especially in view of the increase in migration flows. Special attention was given to the need for further development of local self - government in the presentation by Alexander Moroz. The meeting was also preceded by a deputy chairman of the Supreme Council, Tomenko, who presided over the meeting. I would like to point out that the parliamentarians of the two countries have approved the composition of the working committees of the Assembly and their leadership. During a panel meeting following a plenary meeting with a wide range of experts, discussions took place: on the development of cross-border cooperation, on the interaction between Ukraine and Poland in Euro-integration processes and on cooperation in the area of local government reform. During the evening session, the Assembly heard reports on the results of the panel discussions and approved the statements. I think these statements were placed in the press and all of our colleagues came to know them. The Assembly decided to hold its next session in Warsaw in the fall and agreed that such meetings should not be held once a year but twice a year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u3	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign in. Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u4	I would just like to complement my colleague Vitalia Jakovič Šibka as a member of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine and the Republic of Poland from the Ukrainian side, which is also part of the working group on local self-government, which aims to take advantage of the experience of reform in Poland in the context of the completion of political reform in Ukraine. That's why we've identified a wide range of issues that we both need to study, and our colleagues from the Polish side, in order to speed up the reform of local self-government, as envisaged by our plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u5	Vitaly Yakovich, can you add anything to this? Oh, no?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u6	No, I agree. Indeed, this issue was discussed, and it was John Mikolaiovich who took an active part in the work of this group. It was he who made so many useful suggestions that we then considered and I think it was appropriate that this was an addition that he had just made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u7	Well, in general, the creation of three committees at the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly of Ukraine-Poland: on issues of cross-border cooperation, European integration and local self-government issues, this is a key issue for our cooperation. I think it's right that these committees were created and planned to respond to the job. Okay. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u8	Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u9	Yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u10	I have, if there's time left here, perhaps a moment's notice of a very interesting subject that concerns our society today. That's what I'm talking about. As you have seen, in the media there is information that really surprises our society, some churches, especially the Catholic branch, have turned to the people, to the believers, so that we can go through our own, so that they can go through the elections. I mean, for the first time in my life, I've probably never seen such interference in political life since Pope Pius Xl. And I'm sure it was done on its own, on this very level, and the Pope doesn't know anything about it. So to me, there's this proposal, maybe you or Parliament, we're going to prepare a petition to the Pope of Rome to let him know how the Catholic Church hierarchy is doing today to respond. So, indeed, is it appropriate for the church to intervene today in the political life of one country or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u11	I think the question is important. And let's do it because that's what we're going to ask, Vitaly Jakovitch, the initiative is always.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u12	I already have the text, let me work on it for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u13	Then let's work together and go separately to the Pope of Rome and separately to the hierarchy of churches that are in Ukraine. We respect all religions, we welcome them with Easter, and on the other hand, we recommend that the Constitution's standard of delimiting the functions of the Church and the State be respected by all, because the Church includes Ukrainian citizens who should be law-abiding and this is the same as if we were to advise a religion on how to send services on Easter. This would be about as important as their recommending who and what is being cleansed. I think it is necessary for the one who wrote this address to cross himself and go to ask forgiveness for his sins. Prepare, please. Thank you. And if we can do so, we will do so today. Is there anything about wanting to share in the discussion? None. The information is not being discussed; we take it for granted. There is information from the Cabinet of Ministers on the status of implementation of the Plan of Action "Ukraine-EU". I give the floor to Deputy Minister of Economy Petnicki Valeriy Teziyovich, please. And there's the Minister of Justice and a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who. Okay. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u14	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. As you know, the Ukraine-EU Action Plan was approved on February 21, 2005, during the eighth special session of the Council on cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union. Over the course of two years, the implementation of the Plan of Action "Ukraine-EU" has contributed to the implementation of the provisions of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, created the basis for a comprehensive reform of our State's economy to bring it into line with European development standards, as well as for the start of the negotiation process for the development and conclusion of a new strengthened agreement between Ukraine and the European Union to replace the existing partnership and cooperation agreement. While appreciating the implementation of the action plan from today's perspective, important positive gains in the economic, social and sectoral spheres can certainly be noted, which, in turn, has been repeatedly recognised by the European Union at different levels in both expert meetings and high-level meetings. One of the main achievements of cooperation between Ukraine and the EU in the framework of the action plan has, of course, been Ukraine's implementation of the main criteria in the market economy and the granting of market economy status by the European Union. Moreover, among the major gains in the economic and trade and economic spheres in the implementation of the Plan of Action at the current stage, it is important to note progress in the context of Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization or the process of accession to the World Trade Organization. Particularly in recent times, as you know, the active cooperation of the government and parliament has practically brought Ukrainian legislation into line with the rules of the World Trade Organization. This, in turn, has been an additional stimulus and signal for the continuation of the negotiations on the creation of a free trade zone between Ukraine and the EU, which will become an integral part of the new strengthened agreement. In doing so, I would like to point out that in this direction the parties have actually gone beyond the Action Plan and have started not only the formal negotiation process for a new reinforced agreement but also informal consultations on the format of the structure, the completion of the Free Trade Zone Agreement. Today, the European side is openly demonstrating interest in trade and economic relations with Ukraine. And I would like to point out that in this context a new Agreement on the Trade in Textile Products, which provides for a quota-free, free of restrictions on Ukrainian access to the European market, has recently been put in place. In fact, the signing of the new Agreement on the Trade in Steel will take place at an early date, which will significantly increase the access of Ukrainian products to the European market. The progress of cooperation in the field of standardisation and technical regulation should also be noted, in particular with regard to the conclusion of an agreement or the commencement of a negotiation process on the Agreement on the Conformity and Acceptability of Industrial Production. And in this context, we have also made significant progress in the implementation of the Action Plan. In the framework of the agricultural dialogue, the Ukrainian side has intensified its activities with regard to the effective promotion of exports of Ukrainian agricultural products and the conclusion of an agreement in the veterinary field. As evidence of the progress made by Ukraine in this direction, well, apart from talking about some quantitative indicators, I would like to point out that the permission to export fish, milk and eggs to the European Union has been an indicator of progress. And so today, there's work on defining Ukrainian businesses that meet the necessary criteria. And to date, we have been reinstated in a number of lists of countries that are allowed to export to the European Union such products as honey and horse. In particular, it is worth stressing the significant work done in the implementation of the action plan for our nation's regulatory system in accordance with international principles and rules of the European Union. At this stage, we are actually at the threshold of a new stage in our relationship with the European Union. And in this context, it is expected to ensure that bilateral arrangements are maintained at the right pace in the action plan. And so far, our main work and our main efforts are already in the future and in the economic sphere, and in all other areas. So in the work of making a new reinforced agreement and negotiating process. So, briefly summarizing the work that has been done, I would like to point out that significant progress has been made. And I would like to assure you that the government will continue to carry out consistent work on the implementation of the action plan and the objectives of the action plan. At the same time, I would like to point out that there are a number of shortcomings in this context, because not all of the measures envisaged in the action plan are in full measure today. And when it comes to economic cooperation, there is, of course, special attention to the promotion of Ukraine's interests in the markets of the European Union, the protection of the national producer in the internal market, the representation of the producer's interests again in the European Union market in the context of anti-dumping investigations. This work is going on, but it needs to be continued, and we need to improve legislation, because the experience we have gained shows that without active work, without active cooperation with business, we cannot make progress. And to date, we should note such positive gains and examples of our cooperation with steel producers, chemical producers. Work is being started and very actively carried out with associations of Ukrainian manufacturers that allow both our country’s external market interests to be represented and effectively protected. I would also like to point out that today work has begun, that is, some gains are very difficult to talk about in sectors such as cooperation or making new agreements on aviation cooperation, and energy work is actively taking place. And of course, this work should last, based on Ukraine's interests, from the interests of energy security. At the same time, all this work should be strengthened both by legislation and, therefore, by a great request: In those initiatives that come out of the government, we hope for support in the legislative work itself. And today it's about many areas: and protecting intellectual property rights, and reforming relationships in various sectors of the economy, and agriculture, technical regulation, sanitary, phytosanitary control. A number of legislative acts need to be improved in the field of regulation of external economic activity, regulation of individual services sectors. That's why we have many tasks here, and we hope that the joint work of both the government and the parliament will allow us to move forward in the path of European integration and actually fill in the content of the agreement that we are talking about today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u15	Thank you. I've got it. Let us do so, without question even, because there is no need for him to make information, let us simply suggest that his extremely interesting information be published in the Voice of Ukraine. This is because much is beneficial for meditating on the information that it deserves. Do you have any questions, yes? Well, then, please. I see you've raised your hands to the MPs. You can answer that. Yeah? Please sign up. Please, until 10:00. Ten minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u16	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to the National Deputy of Ukraine, Hanni Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u17	Dear Minister, yesterday there was some rather disturbing information from Standard & Poor's International Rating Agency, you know, which lowered Ukraine's rating from stable to negative. For some reason, the media has been so shy about the subject, and they've barely mentioned it, but the rating agency points out that the reason for the decline in Ukraine's ratings is because we've already talked about some elections in Ukraine. The President of Ukraine's decree itself has caused Ukraine's ratings to decline in the world. Moreover, this agency highlights the dangers that this could pose on the road to market reforms and to Ukraine’s acceptance of the integration into the world market. How do you think such an internal process in Ukraine will affect.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u18	Let me finish the question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u19	Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u20	Now, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. Well, once again, what I want to say is that the rating agency has not changed its long-term ratings, so of course what causes the anxiety and the situation, that is, the political situation, the evolution of the political situation and its possible impact on economic development. At the same time, today, we are talking about, let's say, disturbing trends in the economy, I don't think it's worth it today, if we're talking about our cooperation with the European Union, it's based on such a stable basis, there's every reason to grow, and I can say that there are no signals today from the European Union about the possible decline in economic activity or the end of those negotiations that will take place. And we already have 19-20 numbers to continue consultations and negotiations on making a new deal, and by the end of May we will sign a new treaty on steel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u22	Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u23	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to ask the following question: some radical politicians in Ukraine blame both the coalition and the government for, as if it had given up European integration and it seems that everything is done to stop the Euro-Integration Vector. Please say, in this context: you're talking about the negotiation process, the continuation of the action plan, please, the position of the government, the position of the coalition representatives in this negotiation process, and what are the answers coming from the other side. Is the European Union now ready to include Ukraine's full membership in the European Union in this plan for the ultimate purpose? And how far does the government, in particular, take a consistent position in defending this item? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u24	Well, what you know about the negotiation process is that the negotiating process has been approved by the directive and, of course, the government's position is reflected there. And our goal is to achieve the highest possible result. In terms of membership, the European Union does not reject the idea of membership itself. Other questions that will be put into the text of the agreement itself and whether there will be a clear reference to membership or not. On the other hand, it's a deal that. and the position of the European Union and the agreement that we are working on today provides for the widest possible entry into the single market of the European Union. It's security and freedom of movement and goods and services and capital and labor. So that's what we can do, which allows us to achieve the very level of deep integration and speak as the next step, is membership in the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u25	Baranivski Šibku gives the right to ask questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u26	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. A fast, socialist faction. Valery Teziyovich, I would like to stress that we do not reject such an important issue as the climate itself in Ukraine. Since you are well aware that when we did not have a very simple situation with the minister in foreign affairs, the trinity that came to us did not reach us in full. She came in this way separately, and such decisions were not always defined for society. But I would like to ask you this question. Please tell me, is a free trade zone really a goal that will give us an important opportunity to integrate ourselves into European economic space? Or should we do something outside this zone of our goal, a free trade zone, because we have it all the time, that's a free trade area, and that's good for us. And it's done so that we don't get caught up in the free trade area, but rather have more opportunities to work with the European community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. When it comes to the free trade area, I would immediately like to say that this is not a negotiation to reduce duties, to lower only customs barriers. These are negotiations on deep cooperation in all areas, primarily in the regulatory sphere. Secondly, it is a deep cooperation related to the reform of legislation that will allow us at all to go to the level of policy coordination with the European Union, which will allow us to participate in various bodies, i.e. working today in the European Union in different directions, i.e. various committees and so on and so forth. So we can look at the example of countries that are not members of the European Union. The same Norway, Switzerland and so on. Norway is currently working on 400 committees of the European Union. Indeed, it does not vote, but it does take part in shaping decisions, in shaping policies. This policy is implemented through legislation adopted in Norway. Norway pays its contributions, but it also receives resources from the European Union. So our job and our goal is to move away from just trade in goods when it's conditional.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u28	Let me finish, but let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u29	Yeah. Conditionally, when we supply, for example, steel products or textiles, and we rejoice in this. So the question is to reform all the spheres of our economy that would allow for competitiveness with the European Union. That's our target.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u30	Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u31	Dear Valery Teziyovich, please tell us to what extent will the adoption of the so-called Soviet laws contribute to the development of cooperation between Ukraine and the European Union? Is there a negative here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u32	Well, you know, you can talk about every single Soviet law or amendment to legislation in the context of entering the WTO separately, but in general, well, first of all, that the European Union is really set up for work today under the new treaty, this is, let's say, the result of the necessary changes to legislation. Today, there is virtually no discussion with the European Union in the context of joining the WTO. We have really substantial support from the European Union, which we feel both in the negotiating process of multilateralism and in the context of our relations with individual member countries of the World Trade Organization. And today Europeans are only asking when we will become a member of the World Trade Organization, but not only are they asking and supporting us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u33	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u34	Mikhail Chechetov, Faction Party of the Regions. Indeed, European integration is our strategic vector, it is undeniable. In order to reduce both the temporary costs and the financial and economic costs of this journey, we must probably make the most of our relationship with Russia. I have a question: when are such serious issues being addressed and questions concerning the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly? The Inter-Parliamentary Commission. Our European integrationists from Our Ukraine, who yesterday, when paid, are not able to pass by the cash registers, now they are walking somewhere, they are heating up in the sun. I have this question, tell me, is this the wave of political instability caused by the anti-constitutional decree, which brings us closer to Europe or distances us from Europe that manifests European values?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u35	Well, you know, you're more likely to tempt me into doing political evaluations. I mean, I'm not a civil servant trying professionally to do the job I'm assigned to do. So talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u36	Please, Valery Teziyovich, you're not answering this question. Mikhail Vasilovich had a bad microphone on there, so consider the situation, and the reporter simply couldn’t answer clearly. And what's at the cash register is that they think it's the last paycheck, so they're in a hurry to get to the cash register. Tell them it'll be four more years, they'll be in no hurry, they'll be working quietly, just another thing, to review, maybe pay terms, that's another thing. We'll talk about it later, I think. Valerius Teziyovich, thank you. Have a seat, please. And I ask you again, prepare your information for publication. Valerius Teziyovich, I say, prepare for publication your information, briefly, release the surpluses different, but to make it go away anyway. Thank you. I give the floor to Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! The plan of action of Ukraine-European Union is the first in our country's cooperation with the European Union to define clearly the issue of the order of the political dialogue that was initiated in 1994 under the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement. In view of the fact that Ukraine's experience in implementing such principles as freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and the founder of freedoms, the rule of law is slightly less than in the countries of the European Union. Clearly, Ukraine’s commitment to internal political reforms is a major part of the political dialogue’s priorities in the implementation of the action plan. The implementation of the action plan in 2005, in 2006, coincided with a thorough review of the mechanisms for the functioning of the political system as a result of constitutional reform in 2004. Most of the decisions taken in this context and their application have contributed to the stability and effectiveness of institutions that guarantee democracy and the rule of law in our country. An example of this is the organization and holding of the 2006 parliamentary elections, which received a high assessment of their democracy, both within the country and from the Council of Europe, the OSCE, the European Union and other international organisations and states. The next step in ensuring European standards for the distribution and functioning of state authorities in Ukraine was the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the Cabinet of Ministers, which clearly defines the status and place of the government of Ukraine in the system of public authorities. However, the completion of a stable and effective system of institutions that ensure democracy and the rule of law requires the adoption of a whole set of legislative acts. In particular, it is necessary to adopt the laws of Ukraine amending the Constitution on the improvement of the system of local self-government, which was previously decided in the previous Parliament, on the legal and regulatory acts that are now also under consideration by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Throughout the year, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine is also planning to introduce drafts of the Ukrainian State Service Act in a new edition, the Ukrainian Administrative Procedure Code and the Ukrainian Law on Central Executive Authorities – laws that are intended to ensure the normative functioning of the entire system of government in our country. One of the priorities of the action plan was to continue with judicial and legal reforms to ensure the independence of the judiciary and to strengthen its administrative efficiency, ensure impartiality and the effectiveness of the activities of the prosecutors. In order to implement the above-mentioned Supreme Council, draft laws were introduced to amend the Law on the Court of Justice and amend the Law on the Status of Judges. These draft laws, prepared jointly by the Government of Ukraine, representatives of the Ukrainian Parliament and representatives of the President of Ukraine, were adopted as a basis on 3 April this year. And voting has shown that there is political agreement to support the direction of reform of the judicial system, the direction that has been worked together by different state institutions. We hope that our joint work on the development and adoption of these laws will ensure that decisions are taken to improve the functioning of the judicial system in Ukraine. The question of the European Court of Human Rights has not been overlooked. Ukraine is now the only state in Europe in which decisions of the European Court of Justice are implemented on the basis of a procedure approved by the law of Ukraine. At the same time, our state does not stop exclusively at the loss of fair satisfaction for the execution of decisions by this important judicial institution, but is also taking steps to reduce claims against Ukraine. In particular, a number of draft laws have been developed to implement the decisions of the European Court of Justice, which have been called upon to resolve the most painful problems in Ukraine as defined in the European Court of Justice rulings. Measures are being taken to raise awareness among judges, prosecutors and Department of Execution and the Department of State Executive Services of the European Convention on Human Rights and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine is carrying out a continuous analysis of draft regulatory acts in terms of their compliance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Practices of the European Court of Justice. Among the successful measures that have been taken, both for the development of justice and for the implementation of the Action Plan, are the creation of a single national register of court decisions that provides access to court decisions through the Internet. The creation of this register contributes to the openness and transparency of the trial. The priority set out in the Action Plan is to ensure effective fight against corruption. In this regard, I can point out that Ukraine has ratified the United Nations Convention against Corruption and the Criminal Convention on the Fight against Corruption, which once again confirmed its negative attitude toward this phenomenon. The Ukrainian Laws on Principles, Prevention and Anti-Corruption of Corruption, “On the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Corruption Offences”, “To Change Certain Legislative Acts”, also have the power to strengthen public policy in this area. [[on Responsibility for Corruption Offences]] These projects, developed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, have been introduced as a government initiative for consideration by the Ukrainian Parliament. An objective assessment of the fight against corruption in Ukraine was provided in a report by a group of countries against corruption of the Council of Europe, the so-called “Greco” group, which contains 26 recommendations of a general and special nature. General recommendations include recommendations for reforming the Public Prosecutor's Office and the State Service for the continuation of judicial and administrative reform. Special recommendations cover narrower specific problems and provide for concrete measures such as the development of a plan of action for the implementation of national anti-corruption strategies and the establishment of an authority responsible for monitoring the implementation of this action plan. In line with the plan of action, Ukraine was to ensure the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with European and international standards by respecting and effectively implementing the United Nations and the Council of Europe conventions in the field of human rights. In this regard, I would like to point out that Ukraine is a party to most international human rights instruments and remains a proponent of development in the international human rights protection system. In particular, last year Ukraine ratified Protocols 12 and 14 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, as well as the Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment and Punishment. This year, the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Persons with regard to the automated processing of personal data and the Additional Protocol thereto, as well as the European Convention on the Reparation of Damage to Victims of Violent Crime, must be completed. To sum up, I can say that our State's implementation of the Plan of Action “Ukraine – the European Union” needs to be taken into account in the light of the internal development of our state, which is taking place in accordance with European standards and ensures the continued development of all fundamental legal norms that are intended to uphold the rule of law in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u38	Thank you. Do you have any questions? Well, please write down who has the questions, because the information is interesting and important. Bronjik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u39	Alexander Vladimirović, very interesting information, but it already does not seem to take into account the assessment of the last situation. I mean, this is where Ukraine's ratings have been changed to negative, including in this room. The second, reported on the Internet, is that Foreign Minister Yatsenuk has stated that we will deal with internal issues on our own, that is, without involving international experts in assessing the political crisis, its legality and constitutionality in order to remove Ukraine from a negative rating. Do you have the authority to make such decisions yourself, or is it the function of the Cabinet of Ministers? Please explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u40	I can say that I have no right to evaluate the actions of other members of the government, but it is certainly a fact. That the internal situation in Ukraine, which is dynamic, has an impact on Ukraine’s bilateral and multilateral relations with other states, nations’ unifications, international organizations, and certainly those steps. What is being done in Ukraine in spite of the commitments made to comply with the general rules of law that are established in the European Union and the obligations to comply with the Ukrainian State do not contribute to the development of our partnership. That's understandable. But to date, I want to say that Ukraine, as a state in the person of its State authorities, the Ukrainian Parliament, the Ukrainian Government, is taking all necessary steps to implement the plan adopted jointly by Ukraine and the European Union. I have information, it's large enough on page 40.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u41	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u42	I want to say that the plan of action is large enough, and I took it with me, and it's on page 40, and it predicts a very large set of measures. After each of them, the Ukrainian State is taking steps to commit itself to the European Union and certainly to its people to uphold the principles and standards of life that are now in the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u43	Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u44	Thank you. Stephen Balba, a faction of socialists. Alexander Volodymyrovich, I have this question, it may not really apply to this particular subject, but it does. The future, closer cooperation with the European Union, envisions the introduction of market relations, including on land issues. As you think, these are all the coalitions around the early elections there, and so on and so forth, they will or will not affect the adoption of the laws necessary for us to really have a civilized market for land in Ukraine as of January 1st next year. Will we not lose our land if the moratorium of January 1st of the following year is lifted?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u45	I hope that this situation, which is triggered by a certain crisis in Ukraine in the work and relations between the authorities of the State, will not be long-term and that the legislative work plan jointly worked by the Ukrainian government and the structural units of the Ukrainian Parliament will be implemented, and the Supreme Council of Ukraine will be able to adopt all the necessary laws so that the next year, in accordance with the earlier decision, the full market for land in Ukraine will function.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u46	And finally, Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u47	Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich! Your ministry controls the work of adapting domestic legislation to European legislation. Are there any miniscule proposals in common with Minpraci on the smooth alignment of our labour, pension and migration legislation in the context of the European Social Charter ratified by us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u48	That's what these proposals are. This job is certainly the leading ministry here, and our department of adaptation is working with the Ministry of Labour. Of course, according to the plan that will be approved, I hope that by the end of this year, after the programme that was approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2004, it will be concluded this year, this programme. You are listening to a report about the execution of the program last year. These steps are also envisaged for adaptation in the field of labour legislation in Ukraine to European Union standards.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u49	Thank you, sit down, please. We take note of this truly useful and interesting information from the strategic direction of the development of Ukraine's foreign policy. It's a shame the foreign ministry doesn't have a representative right now. I would like to take this opportunity to address Arsen Petrovich Yatsenuk, reminding him that the Ministry's assessment will still be given by the Supreme Council. We'll hear more of his information, I think, after the trouble is over, organized with regard to Parliament's position or assessment of its activities. It's not for these people to judge. I think society will determine itself later. In the meantime, we take this information to heart. And I would like to address you with such suggestions. From each faction, we have a proposal: I'm going to call it a break to give the MPs a chance to make a statement. It's just to put a word in there for up to five minutes and then stand there with two factions or something. I think we should do that. We're just going to take 15 minutes to communicate information at a political moment, because it's special. And then let's get back to work. Yeah? So I want to put to the vote a proposal to take 15 minutes to exchange information. [[10:58:57]] For 254 First, I would like to propose a word to one of the deputies, our colleagues, Alexander Vasilovich Galunenka, the Hero of Ukraine, the Deserved Transporter. What is it? A group of our deputies turned to the National Coalition for National Unity in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, preparing a call for opposition from the Ukrainian national deputies. I think it's a perfectly legitimate move that was initiated by our representatives. I would like to say who is preparing such a speech: Bachevi Tetjana Dmitrovna, a well-deserved doctor of Ukraine; Boyko Volodymir Semenović - The Hero of Ukraine, a well-deserved metallurgy of Ukraine; Borzich Alexander Ivanovich - a well-deserved agricultural worker of Ukraine; Bugajer Anatoly Aleksandrovich - The Hero of Ukraine, a well-deserved Ukrainian engineer; Galunenko Alexander Vasilovich, who is now standing on the rostrum, - The Hero of Ukraine, a well-deserved transporter of Ukraine, a legendary pilot fighter tester. Next. Litwinov Leonid Fedorovich-Hero of Ukraine, a well-deserved industrial worker of Ukraine; Litvinov Vladimir Grigorovich-Hero of Ukraine, a well-deserved miner of Ukraine; Parubko Omelyan Nikonović-twice Socialist work hero, winner of the USSR State Prize; Samojlik Katerina Seminowna-deserved teacher of Ukraine; Skudar Georgi Marković-Hera of Ukraine, a well-deserved machine builder of Ukraine; Tabuknik Yakov Pinevic-national artist of Ukraine; Tkachenko Alexander Mikolaiovich-Herojski-Soccrazzi, academic of the Ukrainian Academy of Agrarian Sciences. And they haven't signed a few heroes yet, they haven't been able to just do it, they'll probably join. I refer to Jankovsky Mikol Andriyovich, Teeth Mikhail Vasilovich, a well-deserved scientist of science and technology, academics, Gerasimov Ivan Aleksandrovitch, Hero of Ukraine, veteran of the Great Homeland War, Boguslav Viacheslav Aleksandrovich, the Hero of Ukraine, doctor of technical sciences. That's all, I don't add after these regals, the names and status of these people, I don't add another word -- "national deputy of Ukraine" -- to make sure that Ukrainian citizens understand that decent people are addressing their proposals to representatives, who, too, are also a deputy corps, who, in my opinion, are not in the session room today because of, well, yeah, lack of oversight. So, Alexander Vasilovich, please, your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u50	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Addressing the National Representatives of the Coalition of National Unity of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Ukrainian National Deputies from the Opposition. The events of the last days related to the promulgation of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Call, which clearly violates the Constitution of Ukraine, force you to appeal to that part of the MP Corps, which is used as an instrument for the implementation of the disgraceful plan of the national rebellion. Regrettably, today the notion of honor, dignity, orderliness, humanity, common sense, the organizers of rebellion want to replace one thing — fear. Under Domoklo's sword of fear, the President tilts the heads of government, members of the CTC, heads of local self-government, members of the electorate to stupidly enforce the President's illegal decree, took on an adventure with the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Is that what you wanted, colleagues? Do you want to carry out the criminal orders of the head of state? If this is the way it's planned to run the entire electoral process, is it not possible for the President's Secretariat to choose and approve a new composition of the national MPs, in which there will be no place for us or for those of you who, indeed, practice the ideas of democracy? Because with the mouth of some officials of the Presidential Secretariat, it is stated that, contrary to the Constitution, the 5 vocations today are deprived of all status and authority. You are for the triumph of such political savagery, you are for Ukraine to find itself in the mouth of modern totalitarianism. Ladies and gentlemen, consider if you have not yet taken the right to your own opinion, which could be the result of the anti-constitutional disorder, the legal nihilism that the leaders of the far-reaching plans for the elimination of the democratic system in Ukraine have imposed. Unless that is what the President requires, to introduce an imperative mandate of a national MP who does not accept Europe and elections as an example of Iraq, Afghanistan, some countries in Africa. Under intense pressure is the Constitutional Court, which wants to push for the support of the anti-constitutional decree of the President of Ukraine to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u51	Wait a minute. Please continue finishing time. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u52	On the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, 5 summonses. There's a lot of people talking about it. Everything that the Supreme Council has done to boost the economic growth of the social situation in Ukraine is unconscionable. Yes, we are all different in the Supreme Council according to our preferences, political views, but our national interests are common. No one and nothing gives any of us the right to live by our own ideas and understanding of the Constitution. Many basic articles of the basic law cannot be read, for this will lead to complete absurdity. Consider what legal nihilism can do. Don't let yourself be an instrument in the hands of political apherists. It is now, consciously or not, that the shameful practice of disregarding laws, the Constitution of Ukraine, and public morals is laid down to the satisfaction of the authorities and business interests of those who are now seeking power. Make your own conclusions – as indicated by your conscience, your mind for our common goal of the boom of an independent Ukraine, the well-being and happiness of our people. We urge you to return to the session room of those of you who have grasped the evil purpose for which you are being used. Let us work together for the benefit of our people, for their happiness and prosperity. Think of all, do not take part in the political adventure that brings about the collapse and collapse of everything: economics, politics, morals. Let the support of the 60th Constitution of Ukraine be yours, which allows you not to carry out the anti-constitutional orders of anyone. Our word to each of you is a word from the heart: don't betray Ukraine, history will never forgive us if we put our personal interests above national interests. People’s deputies, read by Alexander Alexandrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u53	Let's support this initiative of the National Deputies. Thank you for her. Once again, just by addressing those who are listening, watching our meetings, I was going to say that this is about people who are being approached by a colossal authority that has been conquered by their previous life. Both the work achievements and the professional achievements, and the high moral authority of those who are sitting and working in the session room today, are few, as you understand, and in opposition. We need them to come to the hall and work together, because eventually all of these frictions will pass, and the truth will prevail, and the Constitution will be kept everywhere and everyone. But help must also come from those authoritative people in this regard. I think we would all like to make that offer. But enough is enough that our representatives, I think, our political elite is addressing this as a matter of opposition to their colleagues. Thank you for taking the initiative. There was an offer to give Stoyan a word from two factions, and then write down another one who would like to make a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u54	Honorable fellow countrymen, distinguished members of a fellow national MP, Reverend Alexandre Alexandrovich. Yesterday, all the media showed the events that took place at the Cave District Court. Sadly, they showed, in a mild sense, that these events were distorted. Here's just one thing. In the night news release for “1+1” shows a picture of a door breaking out in one of the rooms, and the commentator says, “Regions” broke down the door and took the seal. I'm saying it's a gross forgery. Why didn't anyone show us our briefing with a colleague of Popescu, where we were talking as witnesses, how Koleschenko got the seal. One of the channels, however, showed the meeting of the President, an urgent meeting with the deputy from BUTU, Andriy Portnov, and the Attorney-General. The President then stated that a crime had been committed and that the Attorney General had been instructed to conduct an investigation. We claim that the Butcher Andrew Portnow was not present at the time of the seal transfer. So everything he told the President is a lie. Next. In the room at the time of the sealing, there was no substitute for the head of the Cave Court, Olga Otrós, but on all channels she claimed that her assistant had been beaten. I wonder why she couldn't do it herself. We demand forensics to show that there was no violence against this person. As far as the door is concerned. I want to say that, as I was told by my colleagues, they knew that in one of the rooms, the deputy head of the Hennaday Moscal, the representative of the Secretary of the President of Galatia, the same shoemaker, Andrew Portnow, and the deputy head of the Pecher Court, had closed up and prepared an action there. Our colleagues asked what was going on there. Journalists also wanted to know what was going on. And when they knocked, those people didn't open up. What happened next, I think it's better to tell the eyewitness of these events, Yuri Baldirev. But I want to make it clear that the opening of the door to the seal didn't have any effect. This happened much later. And the deputies who were present saw a seal in the hands of Kolisnichenko. So we think that right now we need to show you the magnitude of this event, it's on the First National. Alexandre Alexandrovich, invite us to show you this passage that was actually in that room. And finally. Dear colleagues! I reaffirm once again that there was no violence in relation to it, this is another political provocation aimed at discrediting the Party of the Regions. And two minutes, because I had five minutes, I'm handing over Annie Herman to my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u55	If you gave her two minutes, she'd get three. Please ask the MPs who are written here. Hanna Herman in the record, you'll have your word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u56	Dear colleagues! If you support me, you'll support the protest project that you're proposing, we'll go to international organizations to try and push the press freedom that has taken place recently in Ukraine. Thus, the protest project: “Lastly, attempts have been made by the presidential forces to suppress press freedom and restrict journalists ’ access to information. Yes, at the meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Second April, the foreign minister, who is a member of the President of Ukraine, demanded that the right of the press be restricted and that journalists be not allowed to be present at the entire Cabinet of Ministers meeting and inform society of what is going on there. On April 5th, the press office of the President's Secretariat kicked journalists out of the session when the Prime Minister of Ukraine began his speech. In addition, the fifth-April channel, controlled by the Presidential Environment, presented a prepared story in which, by duplicating the facts, gave a false picture of the events in the Pecher Reisud, which forced the People's Deputy Stoyan to protest leaving the night's release. We are strongly protesting against attempts to pressure freedom of the press, against ordering materials. Against trying to turn free Ukrainian journalism again into a humble tool of the President's Secretariat. If you support the text of such a project, we will direct it to international organisations in the region, as well as international organizations “Reporters Without Borders”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u57	I think it's quite a good suggestion, because even yesterday at the Security and Defence Council meeting, even the Minister of Defense, who, of course, takes such a separate position in the assessments of what's going on, and he said that it was rude for a hundred journalists when they were literally expelled from the PNBO meeting after the President's speech, who formulated his position, it really didn't fit. So, if you don't mind, let's give the same Hani Herman the task of editing everything she's offered and direct that address to the addresses she said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u58	Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u59	No objections? Then I put this proposal to the vote. [[11:15:31]] For 256 Decision taken, thank you. Yuri Baldirev. Please. Instead of Jaroschuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u60	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! Unfortunately, this episode of yesterday received a totally fantastic interpretation in the media. I watched with great irritation the television story, which presented the opening of the door and the conversation with Gennady Moskal as a break-in of the cabinet and the kidnapping of the press.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u61	Yuri Alexiyovich, pick up the microphone because you can't hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u62	I'm asking the press. Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't know the contents of the episode, don't put it on the air at all. And if you want to put it up, ask the participants how it happened. You're confused, you've plotted two completely different events that have been blown apart over time for about five to six hours. I mean, they took the seal out of the safe this morning. By the way, no violence at all. The assistant gave the key to the safe to the president of the court and he took his seal out of the safe. That's how it was. And about half of the second, Mr. Moskal, Vice-President of the BSS, Mr. Galatia, Head of the Office of the President's Administration, Vice-President of the Court of Otres, closed in the 21st room together. Yes, along with the deputy from BUUTa Andreem Portnowov, who had been instructed in the room, told her how she had been beaten to present this position to journalists. By the way, you saw that this position was largely represented by other people, not her. Portnov talked mostly about how she was, not her. And the episode that was shown when the door was opened. First of all, the door wasn't broken. We knocked on the door and opened the door. When the cameras were opened, and your press cameras saw those who were in the room, they shut the door. We didn't let them close the door. A Moscow security guard came to the door screaming that his leg was about to be broken. We pulled this guy out of the door, and then we finally opened the door and we had this conversation with Moskal, which you recorded. First, there was no door break-in, and secondly, there was no press talk at this time. The seal was taken in the morning, which was in the middle of the second. I'm asking you very much so that we can respect you as you respect your parents, please don't go on air. If you don't know what this is about, ask the witnesses, how did it happen? And the last. 30 seconds. Because all these sad events are happening on the Passion Week, and I think we're all going to have to. All the parties to this conflict will have to answer to God for the fact that, on the Passion Week, we got caught up in such a shameful, disgraceful Ukraine for the whole world process, our headquarters decided today not to hold a rally, not today, on the Day of Friday or tomorrow, on the Passionful Sabbath. Until Christ is resurrected, we refuse.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u63	Yeah, we've used 15 minutes. But since the Simonenko faction, Bondarchuk. Please, Simonenko. And Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u64	Dear colleagues! Simonenko, the Communist faction. I am informing you that in a number of areas, the radio broadcasts of the session are already starting to be turned off, thus trying to deprive us of opportunities to communicate with our constituents so that they know clearly what the coalition is like today. And I'd like to use this time to reiterate some judgements on what's going on. As you know, yesterday the President stated that the Constitutional Court had decided on the constitutionality of his decrees, and I would like to draw attention to the fact that, yes, our position was that the Constitutional Court should answer the question of constitutionality or the unconstitutionality of decrees. After that, I am convinced that in the Constitutional Court, the honour, dignity of the judge and the law prevails, and a just decision will be taken on the unconstitutionality of the decrees. I propose to proceed with the preparation of relevant decisions now: appeals to the Office of the Attorney-General for criminal proceedings against the President for the commission of an official offence; further preparations for political reform; the abolition of the Presidency; and thus the return to the legal field of everything that is going on in the country. But it seems to me that respectable comrades, chief not elections, elections — not the goal, most important — should be paralysed today by the Supreme Council, and it is now clear that the Cabinet of Ministers, after yesterday's meeting of the Security Council Council. This is essentially the way to a legal disaster. How does this end? Even now, Ukraine is feeling that the oranges have again put the country into very serious trials. The investment climate is questioned. This will certainly be a major blow to Ukraine's economy by an orange team headed by the President in a few months. They are fuelling inflation today, and it is on their initiative that this inflationary spiral is being organized, and it will certainly also hit the pockets of our simple workers. It kills small and medium-sized businesses. This is evident today because the purchasing power of our citizens is declining, the credibility of the financial system and much more is lost. It is a matter of preparing for the electoral campaign, which is the tension and preparation of the orange oligarchs and others who support the President, is of course today, the level of wages, the price increase and much more. Meetings held by the President with the administrations of the President. I'd like to talk to everyone. There is article 60 of the Constitution. It states that no one is obliged to obey manifestly criminal orders or orders. Legal responsibility for the performance of a manifestly criminal order or order. I would like to warn the heads of administration of the areas and areas. You will be criminally responsible for the fact that you have now started holding meetings on the start of the electoral campaign. And the last. A decision is being taken, it is decided that the local budgets will finance the electoral campaign. I think we should already consider the financial discipline of local self-government that violates the State budget and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u65	Thank you. Let me finish the phrase, how much longer is it going to take?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u66	And the last. Dear voters, I would like to draw your attention. All the Presidents of Ukraine are cursed by the people of Ukraine. I think that's the conclusion we have to make. Starting with Kravczuk, how many calls were there for Kuchma and what is happening today with the “authority” in the same Yushchenko coffeehouses. I think that's the answer to a question for those who doubt whether the President of Ukraine needs it?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u67	Please, Ivan Sidorovich Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, honourable voters of Ukraine, I think what happened today has a great deal of moral weight and support for us. Today, the State Duma of the Russian Federation supported, expressed support for the Supreme Council of Ukraine with its official statement. So this is already the position of the Russian Parliament. [[Applause]] With all our love or animosity for the other President of Ukraine, today an open letter by Leonid Kuchma, stating also the need to adhere to the Constitution and does not support the present - day President of Ukraine in connection with his decree. [[Applause]] Now I want to say a few words to support freedom of speech. What we have expressed so clearly and unanimously for her today is very important, but we also need to use our freedom of speech effectively. Yesterday, many TV channels featured, for example, the words “former Supreme Council, former Chief of the Fifth Council of the Fifth Council, Alexander Moroz. ” Or they give us the word on the television screen and they say, "the national deputy of Ukraine on the fifth call." So we're in the past. So I want to say to the press: study the Constitution, read the Constitution. You may acknowledge or not accept the President's decree, but the Supreme Council acts, as you know, until the last day, until the day they take the oath of the People's Deputies of the next summons. That is why the Supreme Council of Ukraine is not former, as Presidential Speaker Bondar has said, but the Supreme Council is working, and today it is an active parliament of the Ukrainian independent state. And you don't have to deceive people that the Supreme Council is former. The Supreme Council will work as long as the people trust it, they say, to be the supreme legislative body of the state. You don't have to mislead people, you don't have to build some of your technology for the sake of banking, it doesn't seem like there's a parliament. The president, by the way, yesterday proved that he knew that the Supreme Council existed once at the PNP meeting, he asked the acting Head of the High Council to accept the amendments to the budget for the financing of the elections. Of course there won't be an election, because it can only be in some, I don't know, authoritarian states like Yushchenko did. But he also realizes that the Supreme Council is in operation and will act, thanks for that. Although, I think thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Thank you. I emphasize, for information. And I'd like to reassure those journalists who are in a hurry to talk about the former MPs, and they're sitting here with the MPs of the 5th vocation, most likely, the majority will also be the deputies of the 6th vocations, if they work seriously and work out the entire Constitution and the cadets, I mean, by 2011, and then the electorate will be determined not to rush to hell, because much of this saying has already confirmed in our society. So I think that's enough. At your place? Oh, by text. Please, Hiccup. One second, is that about? Vitali Jakovic, please announce.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u70	I'll tell you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u71	Huh?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u72	I'll tell you. That's a reference to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u73	Oh, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u74	Dear colleagues, here at the initiative of three deputies, our colleagues Katerina Samoylik and Michael Chechtov, and I have prepared a text for his Holiness and Holy Father Benedict XVI. Let me read this text, if we accept it, it will be a statement, not from the three of us, but entirely from the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u75	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u76	His Holiness to Benedict XVI. "Your Holiness! Ukraine is experiencing difficult times, and all of us need great patience and wisdom to meet these challenges in the best possible way. It is unfortunate that today’s political crisis has begun to unfold at the worst of weeks. In such circumstances, many of us feel that it is impossible to forget this world and direct their views and souls to dominating passions. This situation calls for the support and mercy of the church. You can only imagine the concern we have read in several information sources on the Internet, that on Thursday, representatives of several Christian churches signed a petition to the Ukrainian political forces. In this reference, they not only assess the current political crisis but also openly take up the position, urging members of parliament to renew national confidence through elections. The active involvement of some Christian parishes in Ukraine’s political life is, unfortunately, not new. However, we were very concerned to see the names of two highly-deserving Catholic hierarchs — Cardinal Huser and Bishop Torphemyak — among those who signed the address. We would like to believe that the Apostolic Roman Church will remain over the political struggle, and we hope that the close cooperation of Ukrainian Catholic priests and their European counterparts can teach them to be more religious, more humanly tolerant and wise. National deputies of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u77	There's an offer like that. If you have no objection to the text of such a vote, vote it as a matter of fact from the Supreme Council, so that we do not concentrate this initiative on three authors only. No objections? May I put it to a vote? Then I am voting on the approval of the text of this statement. Please. [[11:29:57]] For 260 And one more thing. During the evening meeting yesterday, a commission was made to prepare for the appeal of the Supreme Council to the armed forces of Ukraine and other military formations and law enforcement agencies. It was prepared by our former military officers generals Hussarov, Samofalova, Ignatenko, Bulba not yet general, but it is temporarily probably Sameilenko, and others. So I'm going to read the text, and then I'm going to define. Address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the military forces of the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations and law enforcement agencies. But before that, let us put it into order so that it can be voted on. I am voting on the draft Decree 3449 on the appointment of the Supreme Council to the Ukrainian Armed Forces, other military formations and law enforcement agencies. I'm betting on the vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:31:14]] For 251 Gennady Samofalov, please read. He's got a sore throat. All right, I'll read it. That's what I'm talking about. The irresponsible actions of President Yushchenk of Ukraine and the leaders of individual political forces push the country to deepen the political crisis. Especially dangerous and unacceptable in this situation are any manifestations of involvement in today's political opposition, including the holding of successive elections by Ukrainian Armed Forces, the internal forces of the Ministry of Interior and other forces. According to part four of article 17 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s Armed Forces and other military formations cannot be used to limit the rights and freedoms of citizens or to bring down the constitutional system, remove or impede their activities. The Supreme Council of Ukraine calls on the defenders of the country and the guardians of the rule of law, constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens to resist possible provocations, to abide by the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Remember, you swore not to the President of Ukraine, not to any other official or political force, you swore allegiance to the Ukrainian people. Only the unwavering adherence to the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, the fulfilment of its duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen, is a guarantee of your honor and conscience, military virtue and honor. I think that a brief appeal can only be made by such textological or editorial remarks under the heading “other military formations and law enforcement officers”. Similarly, elsewhere, add the appropriateness in the second paragraph : “and the co-workers of other power structures”. I ask you to vote on this text, do you have a supplement? Ivan Mikolaiovich? On the ground, please. [[11:33:41]] For 256 Any suggestions? Please sign in. Complementation, clarification? Please. It'll take 10 minutes. Menduz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u78	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Considering that this is a significant thing, important and relevant, it might be advisable to exchange ideas, discuss the draft decree.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u79	Come on, keep talking, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u80	I meant the regulation, the request to add.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u81	Let's add, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u82	Dear colleagues! After issuing an anticonstitutional decree, Viktor Yushchenko went beyond the Constitution and, in fact, committed an official crime. Standing on this rostrum of the Supreme Council, he made an oath to the President, where he directly said: “I commit myself to upholding the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.” The leaders of local authorities have recently claimed that co-workers of the President's Apparatus are actively sensing the ground for how our citizens will view the situation further to the possibility of unconstitutional introduction of a state of emergency or military status. This could not be overlooked if there were no other signals. For example, President Yushchenka's interview with the British newspaper The Guardian, where he does not explicitly exclude the possibility of repeating events in Ukraine that took place in Russia in 93. Today, it is becoming more and more evident that President Yushchenko has deliberately taken a course towards the repression of civil opposition and the incitement of the country to essentially civil conflict. Under such circumstances, our call to the military is both timely and appropriate. I would like to remind all of us here that thanks to this book -- the Constitution of Ukraine -- for 15 years our country has not known the bloodshed, and it is therefore absolutely appropriate to remind once again that the 17th article of the Constitution states unequivocally: The Armed Forces of Ukraine cannot be used to restrict the rights and freedoms of citizens or to bring down the constitutional system, to remove the authorities or to impede their activities. Under these circumstances, I suggest that military officials who feel responsible for all that is happening in the state, as well as any conscious citizen, discuss the text of the appeal of the Supreme Council in the military congregations, exchange their thoughts, and remember that no criminal order should not only be given but also carried out, for this is a legal responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u83	Thank you. [[Applause]] Bubbles.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u84	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction, Colonel of the Armed Forces of Ukraine I was surprised to learn that the Secretary of Defense, Mr. Grizzenko, was a colonel in the past, had assigned the rank of Lieutenant General. I think if that's the case, of course it's not for merit. I don't think that's possible, because people like that have to get out of their jobs, because in a few years, he did everything he could to make the life of military personnel worse. Construction programs for military personnel have failed. I find that if housing was built in 2004. More faithful in 2006 than in 2004. Today, the rent for military personnel is paid — pay attention! - 60 a month if it's one military. The family consists of 1 person and 1 bracelet 20 copies, if any, of 3 or more. And under these conditions, we, Ukraine, including the armies, offer us another election, another cost. And those who have led the country to such a state want to remain in power again and continue their free tenure, free of charge. I'm addressing former graduates of the Poltava Air Force Command Name General of the Vatutina Army School. I'm addressing all the military of the former First Guard Army, all those who know me. Please remember that you swore an oath to the people of Ukraine. Remember this sacred oath. Do not obey criminal orders. Almost means, you serve the people of Ukraine, have the honor. And we officers, who are on a permanent job in the Supreme Council, have the honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to make one point of Stepan Stepanovich's assignment to Lieutenant General Anatoly Grizzenka, that was first-class. It was a joke that was posted in the press and even put this information on my desk when I was in session. There was tension. A lot of tension, I didn't get a sense of what it was. And it seems like my experience was enough not to swear on such a thing, but as if I were wrong. I apologize to Anatoly Grizzen for such an inappropriate joke. But nevertheless, it's visible, and it happens by accident, because that's the situation, you know? It will always motivate the creativity of those who have a keen mind and a sharp tongue. That's why Bogchuk has the word now. I said it not because I give you my word now, but in principle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u86	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I support the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, other military formations and law enforcement agencies, and I believe that this appeal will be supported by those who perform military oaths today. And I would like to give the floor to the People's Deputy General, Sergey Vasilovich of the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u87	Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u88	Thank you, Basil. The Red Army, Major General of the Airborne Army. And I would also like to draw the attention of the entire public to the fact that such a push of our people into bloodshed, a throwing of weapons can lead to our children being killed again because of the mistakes of politicians. And I'm pointing out that the Andriyko of Julina is not going to die, but the children of the workers and the peasants who are the least involved in this matter that is now being created in our country. So I support the appeal and I turn to both active military personnel and war veterans: friends, let's stand together for the state, for the order, for the freedom. Thank you. For the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u89	Thank you. Fishbowl.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u90	Thank you. Deputy Ribukh, Party of Regions, Zitomirsk. Of course, we need to accept such a request. It's clear, it's short, it's clear, it's clear, it's peaceful, it's peaceful. But what I want to stress is that it's extremely relevant, because the premonitions about the use of force come not from anyone, but even from the Cabinet of Ministers meeting with the Secretary of Defense, who said that he would follow all the President's orders. But I'm not talking about hints today, I'm going to say about, I'm going to remind you. From time to time, and frequent random shootings in the Armed Forces, when guns are taken away, just in the hands of our young soldiers. And how many mothers have buried their children and turned to us and the Supreme Council, the Armed Forces, to protect our children. Here, the vast majority of us served in the army, as did I. And we know that it is impossible, if you follow the instructions, to keep the patron in the rounds. And in today's army and on the planned shootings, there's a patronage, and there's a tragedy. So they're not going to reach Kiev yet, but they're going to shoot, coming out of the high-quality numbers of the Armed Forces and those young people who just did. That is, here and you should do the same on Friday before Easter, but a warning. Let's take these questions into consideration. And that'll be all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u91	Thank you. We used the time taken to communicate the text of this reference. So I have reason to put him to the vote as a whole. That is, Decree 3449 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to the military. Please. [[11:45:29]] For 258. Decision taken. Please, Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u92	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm just following procedure. As a former or former member of the Military Council of the 43rd Strategic Army, I would like to ask my signature to join the authors of this appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u93	The point is, it's the appeal of the Supreme Council, not of individual authors. So you can sign up at all, no one will deny it, thus stressing that there are no strategic forces already assigned because they have been destroyed for known reasons. Yes. Regarding the information provided by the investigating commission on the investigation of circumstances and the causes of the death of journalist Georgia Gongadze and the reasons behind the delay in investigating a criminal case regarding some of the findings of the commission’s work. The reporter should be here, I'd like your attention, Hennaday. Oh, please. He is to report to the Head of the Temporary Investigation Commission, Musik Volodymyr Romanovich. He's gone. But it's not that he's gone. The point is that the subject itself is set like this. Procrastination in criminal investigations and, in fact, the passive work of the Temporary Special Commission. And it is now that he is not present as a reporter, although I repeat that this is connected, perhaps with the political situation and its dependence on the decision of the leaders of the political power, which he also represents. However, the indifference of the organization of this matter is such that we obviously need to consider the issue of the staffing reinforcement of this commission. The point is that in the presence of Moisik Volodymira Romanovich, with all due respect to him, we will obviously ask the question of replacing him as head of this commission, because we have repeatedly claimed here in the session hall during the hearing and the Attorney General's Office, and other representatives of the force structures who are involved in investigating this case, that we are responsible for another year's murder of a journalist that we cannot tolerate, we must put points above and, before the court, all those responsible for this terrible crime should be brought to justice. I think it would be an honor for both the prosecutor's office and the Ukrainian Parliament to help in this matter, and, unfortunately, it works passively. The secretary of the commission, Silchenko Vasili Andryovich, is present here. Please take the floor for short information, not for the purpose, but for this fact, which I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u94	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! I have some information to bring to your attention in connection with the question raised at the meeting of the Supreme Council. First of all, Vladimir Mopsik referred to me as the deputy head of the Interim Investigation Commission with an invitation to report to the Interim Investigation Commission, which means, at a session of the Supreme Council. I said to him: “It is necessary to collect the interim commission of inquiry and to confirm the report in order to implement such a proposal in relation to the political situation that has arisen.” Unfortunately, this work has not been done, so I do not have the authority to report to Parliament today. That's the first one. Next. I share the concerns of the members of the Temporary Investigations Commission that the last period after the previous report, practically, the commission met only a few times and did not have a job, had no planned character, and had no systemic character. That's why the work plans, which are given in the first three months, are actually done, but they haven't been approved by the commission, and so we can't view it as a work plan for the Interim Investigation Commission. Moreover, the members of the commission, the members of the commission, expressed their suggestions regarding the work of the interim commission of inquiry, took into account, but were not included in the session of the interim commission of inquiry. In this regard, I would like to draw the attention of the distinguished National Deputies to the application, to the appeal of Mikola Melnicken, who he sent to the Head of the Supreme Council after a report by the head of the Temporary Investigation Commission to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Let me read you that statement. “Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, I welcomed the creation in September 2006 of the parliamentary Interim Investigation Commission for the investigation of the circumstances and causes of the death of journalist George Gongadze and the reasons for the delay in the investigation of the criminal case. At that time, I hoped that the work of the Supreme Council Commission would allow new steps to be taken that would eventually help to legalize all the circumstances of the criminal case, as well as the reasons for delay and finally put an end to all political speculation around the Gongadze case. In this regard, I provided the Commission with material, including recordings, that were never published. I thought it would allow the commission to deal with the matter more thoroughly and expeditiously. However, I do not think that the work of the interim commission of inquiry has moved significantly. Not only to my conviction, the records on this matter are key materials for understanding and defining both the perpetrators and the customers of this crime. However, after receiving the above records in November last year, neither I nor any of the figures were invited to the TSC meetings. And since there was an agreement that when these materials were processed, I would be given new ones, I had to conclude that no work had been done on these materials. Please consider this statement as an official request to the leadership of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take steps to improve the efficiency of the TSC, since such work at present will discredit both the idea of the interim commission of inquiry and the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a whole. This, by the way, is evidenced by Moses ’ previous report to the Supreme Council on the head of the TSK and the response to such an ineffectual statement in society. Once again, I reaffirm my willingness to cooperate with the interim commission of inquiry. With respect, Mikola Melnichenko.” Unfortunately, it has become a tradition not to discuss or work on her reports to the Supreme Council at board meetings. Therefore, it is not for the report today but only for certain parts of the matter. With regard to the appeal of Mikola Melnicken, Michael Melnichenko was indeed transferring the necessary materials to the interim commission of inquiry, which remained in his head without further deciphering it. Next. At our request, Mikola Melnichenko made a series of contacts with the U.S. Attorney General's Office. However, after receiving immediate warning of the threat of his life, he was forced to leave Ukraine without having, so to speak, sufficient reason to speak of the safety of his life. In this regard, I have to point out to the Supreme Council that, despite the efforts of individual members of the interim commission of inquiry to regulate the work of today’s planned system work, there is no such temporary commission of inquiry. And so I support the proposal to go back to the question of the direction of the interim commission of inquiry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u95	Thank you. Have a seat. We take this information for granted. We understand that this is not a commission report, it's not a previous report, it's a matter of clarifying what's going on. And you can see that such delay doesn't suit us. So I repeat, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik will be here, we will certainly put the day’s report in order. And most likely, I would ask the members of the commission to decide with the board, because this cannot go on like this. Deputies! Yesterday, we, more faithfully, did not attend this meeting yesterday, because I was at the RNBO meeting, or the day before yesterday, more loyally, we considered the draft Law approving the decision of the President of Ukraine to allow the forces of other States to be deployed in Ukraine in 2007 to participate in multinational military training. A group of deputies propose to re-vote this law in view of the fact that training with the participation of Russian military personnel should take place in April months. Therefore, a positive answer would have to be given, without undermining long - term plans in this regard. I'd like to go back to the subject. Who's in charge of voting on this law, I'm talking to you. Vote for it. [[11:56:45.]] For 238. So I have reason to vote on this bill, I do. Registration number 3270. [[11:57:08]] For 237 Thank you. However, yesterday the Minister of Defense approached me at a meeting of the RNB and asked that Parliament be determined. I understand that opposition is not necessary, but nevertheless, I think we will support the President and this aspect. There's a break for half an hour, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u96	Come into the session room, we'll continue the sessions. I can't see. Look, I saw what he was. Dear colleagues, we would now like to hear a report from the Provisional Investigation Commission on the verification of the facts of corruption, the abuse of office by individual officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as set out in the article “Another militia”, published in the newspaper “2000” on September 8, 2006. But in view of the fact that we have a draft decision that is being made by national deputy Sovkovic, who is the chairman of this commission of inquiry, he suggests that we continue the work of this commission. So let's do it this way. I see that the Rules of Procedure Committee has not yet considered this draft regulation, Alexander Sergiyovich. They didn't. Then let's do it this way. Today's report is not going to be properly listened to, listened to, but we're going to ask the profile committee next week, when we're working on the committees to work out this draft decision in order to decide for the next plenary week whether we're going to continue the commission's fate -- whether we're going to continue it, whether we're going to work or we're going to stop our work. No objections? Okay, thanks. Then, dear fellows, now we are. We need to put two draft regulations into the agenda and decide on the Rules. I ask to vote on the inclusion in the agenda and today's consideration of issue 3413 of the Draft Ordinance on Amendments to the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[on the conduct of an hour of questions to the Government]] Please vote. [[12:33:51]] For 239. Thank you, the question is included in the agenda. And immediately let's put it into the order of the day. No, we'll see about that for now. Please, Alexander Sergiyovich Efraemov, head of the Committee on Rules, MPs, and the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u97	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! In pursuance of paragraph 2 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on Recognition of Certain Decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and of the withdrawal of certain draft decrees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the conduct of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Day of 23 February 2007 by the Ukrainian National Deputies of 715/5 of the Committee on Rules, Deputy Ethics and Security of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft decision was prepared and submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council to amend the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the procedure for the conduct of an hour of questions to the Government. The draft decree stipulates that on the day of the plenary meetings every Friday, from 10 to 11 a.m., time is allocated for an hour of questions to the government, which includes, firstly, questions from the deputy factions to the prime minister of Ukraine and the answers to them, up to 15 minutes; secondly, questions from the deputy factions to other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the answers to them, up to 30 minutes; thirdly, questions from the national deputies to the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the answers to them, up to 15 minutes. The year of questions to the government starts with oral or written questions from members of the MPs to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Following the reply of the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the questions posed to him, he has time to ask representatives of the MPs to the other members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and to answer them, as well as time to ask and answer questions from members of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At its meeting on April 4, 2007, the Cabinet reviewed the draft decree and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the inclusion in the agenda of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fifth call for a draft decision of the Supreme Council to amend the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support, accept, as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u98	Dear colleagues, are there questions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u99	We ourselves have made such a decision that the government’s hour is being held. As part of this decision, the Rules of Procedure were drawn up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u100	No questions? No, there is. Sign up then. Please, Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u101	Alexander Sergeyevich, not much time – one hour. 15 minutes for deputies is too little, I think. We will not get an answer to our questions. And sometimes they are so painful that they have to be put on a rib, so to speak. Could it increase time, especially for deputies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u102	Thank you for asking. You and I have made a decision on the Cabinet of Ministers Act, where we have established a rule that replaces Government Day with an hour of government. And within this hour, we wrote down our actions. This was agreed upon by all factions, without exception, and by opposition including. That is why such a decision is made today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u103	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u104	Thank you. Dear reporter. I understand that we should accept these changes by bringing the situation into line with the Cabinet of Ministers Act. It's a decision we have to make. But. Frankly, I have certain doubts as to whether this is better. Because when we talked about Government Day, we meant that decisions are made in advance, topics are defined, materials are prepared. As a result, the government is given an appropriate decision. So I'd like to make a mistake that, let's say this form of government control is going to be better, but anyway, I think we're going to lose a little bit at government time instead of government day. It's going to be, to my deep conviction, kind of, well, if you want, government KNW: the question is that it's not exactly equal to the form that we had before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u105	This is an issue that needs to be discussed. You can do it the way you think, and of course you're right. You can look at it from a second point of view. We worked when it was Government Day. We have seen both the positive and the negative aspects of this issue. Now we're offered an hour's work. Let's work, and then if we have any further questions, we'll make the right changes. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, well, I think we understand the situation. The point is that we, I can express my opinion, but perhaps most of you will agree. Unfortunately, the form we had, Government Day, was replaced by an hour of questions to the government. Although we will look at it, we will see that it is better, for the Government Day has been with you once a month, and we will spend an hour of questions at least twice a month, because during plenary weeks it is necessary, as it is suggested, if we support, to spend these hours of questions, hours of government, hours of government. Where there will be more benefits, life will show, life will show, because, unfortunately, we have to admit by ourselves that the days of the government have often been transformed into a formality. You and I fought very hard to put into the order of the day one question or another, and here the spears were cross-breeding, and then, when this issue was considered, our interest was far from that one. Let's see what the government gives us. We don't have another option, because it's in the law on the Cabinet of Ministers, which is an active law on the Cabinet of Ministers, it's finally working. And that is why we need to make changes to the Rules, to the Rules to start these hours of government and see how it shows life. Then we can make some adjustments. Come on, I propose to support those suggestions that the committee has worked on, and in the course of the practice we're getting started, they're going to be able to do their work with time checks, they're not going to last, we're going to adjust. Is there no objection? Then I am voting on the adoption of an entire Order amending the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Huh? Only in the first? Yes. There's a proposal for us to take this decision as a basis, to take it as a basis, even though we have to spend hours asking the government, well, there's this proposal. So far, I'm putting forward a proposal for a decree amending the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules for Hours of Questions to the Government, Bill 3413 on a basis. Please vote. [[12:43:06]] For 252 Decision taken. Then I would like to ask, my fellow Members, and the committee, and those who show interest in this matter, I know. What the Legal Department was doing there, there are some suggestions. Let us join together with the fact that next week, when we have work on the committees, we have once again looked at this draft decree, Alexander Sergiyyovich, and then we are finally out on the next plenary week on Tuesday, and we have adopted this decree completely, as a whole, so that on Friday, the next plenary Friday, we can spend the first hour of the government’s questions. That's how we agreed. Yes. We have yet to include in the agenda and consider today the decision given to you under number 3451 to amend article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules of Procedure and the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prevent acts that threaten constitutional law, public order and stability in Ukraine. I'm asking you to put it into the agenda. Vote. Vote. [[12:44:28]] For 254 It's on. But something very urgent is being asked by the cook of the Games, and he has a message. Is there no objection to listening? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, from a reliable source to the President's Secretariat, which has just come forward.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u108	Excuse me, excuse me. Dear colleagues, excuse me, Igor. Now we're going into the agenda and we're going to look. I've given my word with your consent, so be careful of any urgent notice Igor Zvaric wishes to make, please. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u109	According to a reliable source, the Ukrainian President's Secretariat is now meeting President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine with the leadership of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The main topic of the meeting is the discussion of the creation of artificial obstacles to the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine with a view to maximizing the time-limits for the submission of recognition of the President's decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for a term period of time. The reason for the meeting was Victor Yushchenk’s concern by the Constitutional Court’s decision to refer the case to the hearing on 11 April 2007. I ask you to respond to this information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u110	I think we can respond by reacting to this. We can't stop the President from holding meetings. They've just informed the public, they've informed the media about what's going on, it's going on. What's that all about? What's that all about? Well, maybe we will. And maybe we don't.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u111	Vote on what? So the president can stop the meeting? What about? Well, I repeat: we've heard the information, we've heard the information, let's wait officially for what we're doing, and then we'll do what we can. Some conclusions. What does Kirichenko want? Turn on the microphone for a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u112	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. I think that there is no secret to anyone, the pressure that judges of the Constitutional Court and all judges face today. In particular, very high pressure is exerted by law enforcement agencies, in particular the BSS on the relatives and children of those judges. Do we have any sense of how to propose to the police, law enforcement authorities to protect them because there is a threat, a real threat? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u113	Dear colleagues, I've already told you, we've heard the information. Thank you for informing us. She was accepted. We can't ban the meeting with you. We'll give you the results of the meeting. All of it. What should I vote on? Vote what? We are considering the draft Decision of the Supreme Council amending article 61 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the prevention of acts threatening constitutional law, public order and stability in Ukraine. Dear colleagues, you've been given a draft decision. The point of this draft decision is down to that. It's three points, I'll read it to you. Part four of article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure. The other one. Paragraph 3 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision of 2 April 2007 on the prevention of acts threatening the constitutional order, public tranquility and stability in Ukraine to be excluded. This decision takes effect on the day of its adoption. The point is that we are. Let me remind you of the story when the proposal of "Our Ukraine" at the beginning of the second session was about expanding the coalition, creating a broad coalition. At the request of the representatives of our Ukraine to regulate this issue of the expansion of the coalition, you and I have amended the Rules of Procedure for the formation of the coalition. All changes to the Coalition Order Rules are being made, and in 61 articles we wrote down a fourth part, where it was said that non-fractional MPs in the individual order have the opportunity to join the coalition. Whom we have made a decision with you to prevent acts that threaten constitutional order, public tranquillity and stability in Ukraine, we have written in paragraph 3 of the decree that temporary suspension of the fourth part of the 61th article of the Rules on the adoption of a coalition in the individual order of non-fractional national MPs. There is a suggestion, since there are many disputes, since there are far-distinguishing interpretations, some believe that they can, others who cannot, let us take this decision and change it, and let us exclude the fourth part of article 61 of the Rules and thus return to the absolute constitutional field as some may wish. If there's no objection, I'll bet. I'm sorry, I beg your pardon, the committee's opinion. Have you considered, please, Alexander Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'd like to give you a minute after you've considered this. I would like to express my views on the issue raised by Zvaric.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u115	No, let's finish this question first, and then we'll go back to the cook.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u116	On this issue, the Committee has considered it today and recommends that it be adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u117	I understood the committee's point of view. The decision was made. Here it is possible that this decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted, not from the day on, but from the moment it is adopted. Lawyers will look. I then put to the vote on adoption as a whole, as a decision of the Supreme Council to amend article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the prevention of acts that threaten constitutional law, public order and stability in Ukraine. [[Registration number of bill 3451]] Please vote. [[12:52:13]] For 258. It's been decided. Therefore, in view of its coming from the moment of its adoption, I appeal to the National Unity Coalition’s leadership to bring the coalition’s composition into line with this decision, in accordance with this decision. Yes, please, now, Ephraim, what did you have to offer us with information about the Welder? Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the treatment that our colleague Zvaric addressed us, I think it deserves more attention than we have just given up on him. You see what is happening in the State: yesterday, the Attorney General spoke in this room, who said that no one was allowed to interfere with the work of the Constitutional Court. We are witnesses when, within one week, the President invites members of the Constitutional Court and puts pressure on the Constitutional Court in a fateful decision for our State. That's why I'd like to. In order to organize the group today and to address the people of Ukraine on the statement made by Zvarić, the President is in constant violation of the Constitution and the laws of our State. The people of Ukraine must know this because this decision concerns the fate of everyone in our State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, once again I ask you to be very careful about any information and messages. Well, who can now confirm the authenticity of this information? Please raise your hand to guarantee that this information is correct. Show me anyone. Who guarantees you? I don't see any who can. Why? I don't rule out that sometimes we're given special information to get involved in this so we can get excited for nothing. I get it, spring! But let us calmly, calmly look at the things that are happening and act. Not to be provoked, not to act in a provocative field, but to act within the laws and the Constitution. Take it easy. We'll have reliable information, and you and I have decided that you and I work in session mode all the time. We're going to have to -- we're going to have a meeting at any time. We'll set up a meeting and we can solve this question with you or whatever. Come on. You've already said that, Kirichenko. Please be quiet! [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u120	Shut up, shut up! I repeat, if you give me a guarantee that this is true, then we will continue this topic. [[From the hall.]] [[Unheard]] .
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u121	Yes, honorary colleagues, factions, three factions: Regions, socialists, communists -- they're asked to take a break for at least 15 minutes. I'll call it a 15-minute break. By 1:00 p.m., 10 minutes. And all national deputies please remain in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u122	Colleagues, since we're all in the workplace, we can continue our meetings. Come on, we got it. I would also like to make an announcement that Ukrainian polarists invite you to visit the third floor of the exhibition on the occasion of the third international polar year, which tells us about the life of the Antarctic Station “Academic Vernadian”, April 6th – the last day. I think after the session, I'd ask you to do that. Draft Law on the Ukrainian State Committee Against Corruption under consideration [[draft by the People's Deputy, V.King]] Please, Volga Vasil Aleksandrovitch, prepare Rich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u123	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I'm the co-author of this bill. The bill is extremely complex. And like Mr. King, he represents the opposition factions, now there's no, I'm proposing this bill, he's already gone to work on this bill. But it's extremely complicated. I'm just going to say some things that are here. And so in the process of processing, I have, for example, a whole series of questions of consistency with legislation, and I'm probably going to withdraw my signature under this bill. These are some of the things I'm very concerned about in the bill. First, the bill says that he does not need additional expenses, or the creation of this committee. In fact, the Anti-Corruption Committee, which is a separate committee as the central executive body, is planning to create a UBPO-based committee and a whole range of units that require serious funding. This funding is not provided by the bill, not calculated. In addition to everything else, the creation of such an organ that will be directly subordinated to the President of Ukraine, and no absolute importance, let's say, if the President of Ukraine intends to usurp power, there is no. Well, that's me. Again, a lot of questions. And so I'm not going to take much time, and I'm going to say that my point of view as co-author is that this bill needs to be re-issued and very seriously worked out. And given that there is no ideal instigator for this bill now, please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u124	Any questions? Sign up. Give me six minutes. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u125	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Your Honor, I fully agree with your position. But I want to say even harder. Because the philosophy of this bill is contrary to the Constitution itself. That's why we have to set a point here. We are done with the adoption of laws or decrees that are simply torpedoing and destroying our basic, main legislative instrument, the Constitution. I suggest that we not send him for work, but just bend him over once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u126	That's an offer, all right. Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u127	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. Dear Vassil Alexanderovich, I would like to ask you a question immediately about funding. You said there was a budget. You and I are well aware that we have a 45 million - dollar tranche to fight corruption under the word of Viktor Fedorovich Yaunuković. I think this money will be used. I have a question for another plan. Tell me, please, what if this State Committee of Ukraine were to oppose corruption that was necessary and subordinated to all state committees, forest agriculture and so on. The National Committee of Ukraine at the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, because the President of Ukraine has no right under the Constitution to do this kind of work that our friend Victor King tried to prescribe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u128	That's 45 million. They're not going to Ukraine to create committees. They're focused mainly on legislative work, creating scientific institutions there that study this issue. And the fact that it will be subordinated to another situation. You see, we're entering a whole series of contradictions here. Yes, we need to fight corruption, but in large numbers we have the right to fight corruption with four institutions in the state that are fighting quite successfully. In this situation, I'm afraid we're going to have, you know, monopolization of the right to fight corruption, as the right to the truth has already been monopolized. That is, there is one person in the state who believes that the truth belongs only to him and that he knows the truth and the truth. In this situation, the right to fight corruption in the prosecutor's office, well, in other bodies, to create such an FSB, the FBI, is still going to be in the hands of one person, it's, and without prejudice, again and again, as I'm talking about, it's dangerous in my opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u129	Saucuk, please. You don't? The miller.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u130	Melnik, Party of Regions. The bill proposes to allocate, assign, more loyally, the Ukrainian State Committee against Corruption with authority to carry out operational and pretrial investigations into criminal matters related by law to its jurisdiction. Doesn't it seem to the authors that the norm is in conflict with existing legislation, because, firstly, it is legal to determine the criminality of the criminal case itself cannot be determined by the current Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine, article 112. The prosecution is divided by the type of crime, the subject of the crime, and, accordingly, the criminal case. Secondly, existing legislation does not provide for the State Committee to be subject to anti-corruption, and the bill does not provide for appropriate changes to existing legislation. And thirdly, and most importantly, active legislation defines.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u131	I completely agree with all of your comments on this bill and, well, once again, I will not repeat myself, the bill is extremely balanced. Well, if we're to speak frankly about this bill, everyone has to understand that the bill was prepared by King Viktor Mikhailovich for one purpose, and this was prepared on an agreement with the President -- getting the President into the hands of an additional force structure, without looking at the Constitution, and how this is happening now, without looking at the laws of Ukraine. And in this situation, I answered, as co-author of this bill, in the part that deals with the alignment of this bill with the activities of public organizations, that is, in that part only, and when it's now being submitted for further study and I'm going to go for a deeper study, well, the contradictions of the Constitution, the contradictions of other laws are huge. And that's why I'm proposing, or sending him to pre-work, or there was already a proposal to vote against.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u132	Verni Dubov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u133	Dear Vassil Alexanderovich, knowing you as a respected young and talented politician, I really did not understand why you signed under that law. But your statement, it gave me a little comfort. And, indeed, as far as we can see, we cannot follow the President's example together to violate the Constitution. He passed a law that completely contradicts the Constitution, and now someone wants our deputies' hands to adopt a law that is not within any bounds. Whoever is interfering with the President's leadership in the state of the fight against corruption -- no one is obstructing, there are all the organs, there are laws of conformity between them, there are all of them, and to make a little more laugh about this law -- I'm going to say that article 11 of the bill suggests to officials that they assign special titles to the Chief State Adviser of the Anti-Corruption Service and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u134	Yeah. Dear colleagues, there are, indeed, such even humorous things. But I want to emphasize one important thing that I think is something that Ivan Vasilovich has just said. The issue of combating corruption will not be resolved by the adoption of one law, another law, and another law. As long as the President's best man is allowed to steal 5 billion bracelets, he will not be held responsible only for being president's best man and minister of defense. Dear friends, until then, no one will fight corruption in this country. I would like to emphasize and remind myself of the situation once and for all. The public meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, at which the CoR reported, more than 5 billion unearmarked funds and in the direction of the $2 billion of dollars stolen -- practically, the entire budget allocated to the Ministry of Health. People don't need medication. They stole all of this and the President, you see, is his best man, won't let him be released and put in jail. Here we should seek the source and seed of the fight against corruption, not the adoption of these humorous laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u135	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, I can't see it from the Horbatuk committee. Tikhov, please. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u136	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the committee has also considered this issue and suggests that the subjects be given back the right of legislative initiative for further development. In doing so, the Committee draws the attention of the authors to the need to ensure that the principle of the distribution of State authority is respected, as well as to the conformity of the individual provisions of the bill proposed to the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u137	Dear colleagues, is there a need to discuss? Well, basically, we talked more about asking questions than we asked. I'm not going to call it a last name, but I'm surprised that it's pretty solid people who have to find out what the Law and the Constitution are signed under this bill. Either they didn't read it or they didn't watch what they signed. You can't, you can't create, you can't write a law about an organ that doesn't yet exist. That's one thing. And the others. All executive organs are created by the only body today called the Constitution of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is, if the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine had created a similar state committee, then you and I could have passed a law on this state committee, or maybe we could have been guided only by positions like other ministries and authorities. Because we don't write laws under every ministry. I'm sorry, but it's purely lobbyist law that wanted to be a state adviser to which there's a class to fight corruption and lead, you can see, this committee. Well, let's work harder. So I propose not to support the committee's proposal for further work, because there's nothing to work on. And I'm voting for a motion to reject the bill. I'd like to vote for the rejection. [[13:14:32]] For 236 Decision taken. The bill was rejected. Dear colleagues, let us approach the most interesting. Please sign up for “Victane”. Please show me. One hour, until 14:15. Please, Tikhov. Get ready, Buttercup.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u138	Please pass the word to Turmanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u139	Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u140	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. I would like to make a statement so that you know such information. On 28 March this year, the Central Committee of the Trade Union and its Bureau decided to hold a plenary of the Central Committee of the Trade Union and set a date on 12 April. At that time, you know, the situation was completely different as the political crisis in our country began today. The resolution of the labour conflict between the Ministry of the Coal Industry by the Trade Union for the Promotion of Wages in accordance with the minimum wage approved by the Supreme Council is under consideration. You know, today's political situation is very difficult, due to the decree issued by the President in violation of the Constitution. So today, in the labour community, especially in coal enterprises, there are two colleagues from coal, Soltes and Litvinov know about it. Today, shift meetings are held, and tomorrow they will be held. And we want to know the views of miners precisely on the situation that has arisen in Ukraine's political crisis. And today, just so you know what it was like at the Pecher Court yesterday, the SBW Service is going through the collectives, it's warning, it's threatening that all of your actions will be applied to you until you're criminally responsible, you have no right to hold meetings, no rallies. What a country we have, what a dictatorship today. And we are convinced of that today. That's why I got confirmation today. These meetings will be held, we will gather these views of our coal industry labour groups, and on 12 April in the plenary we will consider all these proposals and take a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u141	Thank you, please, Buttercup. Get ready for Baburin Marmazov. Lechchenko, “Our Ukraine” faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u142	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Victor Lechchenko, Party of Ukrainian Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, town of Harikov. At this moment of responsibility for the country, when one political force has brought the entire society and the President to a standstill, I would like to remind those people's deputies who are not here today in the workplace of the parliamentary oath. I will read out the words: “I undertake all my actions to defend the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, to ensure the welfare of the country and the well-being of the Ukrainian people.” We see some deputies caring for the welfare of the Ukrainian people. “I pledge to abide by the Constitution of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and to carry out my duties in the interests of all compatriots.” This does not mean that only the interests of a certain color are involved, but that of all fellow countrymen. What does it mean for the Party of Industry and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine to be in opposition? This means deliberately stifling the country's economic development, which means that it is against the oath of the people's representative not to worry about the welfare of the Ukrainian people. All developed economies are moving to an accelerated stage of economic development, bringing Europe together with a single goal of improving the well-being of their citizens. Ukraine is torn apart by contradictions: radical populism, the radical demagogism of individual politicians because of their excessive ambitions and imaginations, are dragging the whole country into destructive processes. In the spring and spring fields, when every day we travel and, as is said in the people, we sow, we reap, and at that time, the Ukrainian people, contrary to the overwhelming majority of the population, impose an electoral campaign. As Bismarck said in his day, with bad laws and good officials, it is possible to rule the country. But if the officials are bad, the best laws won't help. It's easier to catch fish in cloudy water. Elections may last forever, but because of the openings of this demogogia, there is no answer to the main question: what about domestic business, with the income of the population, with the economy as a whole? What is the price of the political crisis for Ukraine's economy? Political upheavals will lead to economic instability in the country: we lose credibility, we lose investment attractiveness, our political and legislative instability threatens the world's business, which is afraid to invest resources in Ukraine's economy. The votum of the world’s trust earned by Ukraine may be lost. Not only Ukraine, but the whole world is tense, waiting for what to happen next? It's time to stop fighting and find compromises. A solution to the crisis is the consolidation of all political forces in the country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u143	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u144	to preserve Ukraine's integrity, sovereignty and independence. The economic development of the country, the well-being of our citizens, and not the destabilization of the political and economic life of the country, should be paramount. We cannot ignore the problem of the reproduction of skilled labour, the maintenance of the educational level of the population and the maintenance of technological capacity in our industry. When we analyze the economic situation over the past six months, we see that there is a rise in indicators and not just indicators in Ukraine. stability and people have begun to work. Ukraine's economy is now operating in a sustainable manner, with an increase in income for the budget for the 1st quarter of 2007 compared to 36 per cent for the 1st quarter of 2006. 12 per cent -- GDP growth, inflation -- 0.7 per cent. For the first time in the history of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u145	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u146	The budget prefix is more income than expenditure, representing 4 per cent. The main issue of public policy is not who will manage it, but how we can organize political institutions in such a way as to prevent bad, unconscious leaders from doing too much harm. With the equal participation of all political elites, it is possible to work in a stable and coherent manner in the constitutional field of the branches of all power. Ukraine and its people need stability. I call on all political forces to stability and economic. the stabilization of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u147	Thank you. Well, hold on, Eugene Vasilovich. I haven't announced you yet. Wait. Dear colleagues, please hold on, I will no longer let anyone violate the rules, and now I apologize to Eugene Vasilovich, allow me to make an announcement. In connection with the adoption of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 6 April 2007 amending article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Supreme Council Regulation No. 837 of 2 April 2007, five, five, on the prevention of acts threatening the constitutional order, public order and stability of Ukraine, on the basis of a protocol of the National Unity Coalition of 6 April 2007, I declare that the Personal Composition of the National Unity Coalition is 238 people, namely. - Let me be the only one who'll be nameless and fatherless, and name-read. Kochros, Kovvaluk, Antemuk, Antipenko, Arkallaev, Ahmtov, Bahejeva, Bebzenko, Bertash, Biba, Bilalash, Beliy, Boguslaev, Boguslav, Boguslav, Bondar, Bondarenko Olena Anatolyvna, Bort, Bronników, Burlakov, Gumenwick, Gussarov, Darda, Dach, Demidak, Demenko, Djiga, Etukhov, Khubakivsky, Khulkowsky, Khulkowalski, Khulkow, Khulkovsky, Khulkowsky, Khubovsky, Khubovsky, Khubovsky, Khuvalski, Khuflish, Khubovsky, Khuflish, Zab momentalistic, Zazevlovekow, Zaznikov, Khullukevalukevaluk, Khukow, Khumukevishevish, Khumukevish, Khumukevish, Khullukevish, Khullukevish, Khuković They were representatives of the faction of the Party of the Regions. Soccer faction: Baranovsky, Bogachuk, Boyko, Boki, Bondarczuk, Bugajec, Bulba, Volga, Goncharov, Danilin, Zubko, Kuzmenko, Kunchenko, Malinovsky, Matvienkov, Melniczuk, Mendus, Mordovec, Moroz, Polakov, Savosin, Sadov, Selchenko, Spodarenko, Tarasov, Urban, Filindash, Čmir, Chukmasov, Šibko. The Communist faction: Alexandrovska, Aleksiev, Babourin, Borstewski, Gerasimov, Dove, Grač, Zaklonna Mironenko, Kilinkarov, Kravchenko, Marmazov, Martinyuk, Matviev, Nastavajko, Plačko, Parubko, Ponomarenko, Samojlik, Simonenko, Tkachenko, Cibenko. No questions asked. Because it's an ad. Please, Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich. He's right behind him, Nadjajko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u148	Dear colleagues, I will also focus on the political opposition caused by the President's unconstitutional decree. That's what everybody's talking about. A side paralyzed, Ukraine split. But Yushchenko likes it. He's on TV every day. They forgot about him, only they remembered him when he left for the bees. And now he's in the spotlight. He likes it. In doing so, I will say that he has or is trying to disperse the Supreme Council, not in article 90, as has already been said here, but in article 61 of the Rules. That's a question that doesn't stand for an egg. We've decided this issue here in two minutes. But it's a cover. He's not going to go for it anyway. The media are lighting this fire, imposing an opinion that the President can do anything. It does not need a Constitution, but it needs political expediency. The President is exerting pressure on part of the forces - part, part of the Constitutional Court - on part of the branches of the regional governments. I just don't understand that the President, does he think that this is the absolute integrity of life. He's burning bridges. The President clearly comes to an end, as a Presidential, political one, as the end of a Ukrainian citizen. This will end if he does not correct his actions in time. Now the second thing I wanted to say. In his decree, the President noted the threat of democracy. It's a red thread he's got. What is the threat? The threat is that the orange team was taken away from a very fat feeder called State Monopolies Control. Remember, NAK Naftegaz led Yushchenka's best friend, Yvchenko, who heads the Congress of Ukrainian Nationalists, a friend of his family, the closest friend of his brother. Only the evasive review of Yvchenka's activities shows that, well, the HeadCHR checked that hundreds of millions were not assigned to what solutions to personal goals, including the purchase of girls. The members of his team have been removed from the Crossroads, from the leadership of the Rescue Department. And, of course, it is unacceptable that he considers this unacceptable when the Supreme Council does not allow for the privatisation of the Shrine and the Odessa Portion Plant. That's the point of the threat, that's why they're going to the bank. At the Security Council meeting, the President stated that early elections would be held only when and how. Well, now it is clear that the elections will take place after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Before then, no early elections will be held. They can only go to Western Ukraine, where they recognize the President as President. And if there's an election.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u149	Finish it. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u150	If the elections were to take place after the decision of the Constitutional Court, the following elections would necessarily be early for the President, because the newly elected Parliament would not allow such ridicule. Yushchenko signed his own end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u151	You're an outcast. Please, Anatoly. He's behind him, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u152	Respectable colleagues, respected voters of Ukraine! In connection with the anti-constitutional actions of the President, I have received many calls from voters in recent days, including my fellow miners. People are outraged at what is happening and can only dream in a nightmare, the Supreme Council and the coalition are forced to protect the Constitution of Ukraine from the guarantor of the Constitution. Communist deputies who did not vote in favour of the Constitution of Ukraine in 1996 when it was not voted in favour of it are now trying to force those who not only accepted it, but also pushed it through the Supreme Council to implement it. The Communist faction, the coalition of national unity, is grateful to everyone who is here in Kiev in their city, district, village for the protection of the Constitution. The line of defense passes through every family today, through every yard, I've worked my whole life in a mine by a passerby, I know the price of mining work and bread. And I understand the indignation of the people of work, including miners, because they have their work at all levels, and we have the power of the President of Ukraine who insists on not considering our choice made in March 2006. It turns out there's not enough choice to make, and there's still a need for the President to like him. My colleagues say we've made our choice and we're not going to do anything else. Moreover, if we are faced with a need, we are willing to protect it. I hope the power hasn't forgotten how the miners can do that. I want to address all the true patriots, not the charming patriots who will be in our hands, the President and his team are not serving us at all, and we need to fight against this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u153	Tweezer, please. Block Timoshenko. None. Bronnnikov passes the word to Verni Dubov. Verni Dubov Ivan Vasilovich, please. Verni Dubov will be followed by Belash.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u154	Dear friends, Parliament is active. The Cabinet of Ministers is involved in the solitude, life - sustaining of the country. And what's the President doing now besides defending his illegal order? But by decree, life is life. On Sunday we will observe the greatest Christian festival of Christ. It is this festival that marks the eternal victory of good over evil, the renewal and cleansing of man from worldly sins, the inseparable bond between God the Father and all mankind. On that day, a person seems to be drawing ever closer to holy and everlasting, looking back on his way and his actions. On the eve of the day, a beautiful family head prepares gifts for family members, friends, and loved ones. Even the cattle of the Ukrainian peasant are welcomed by the best of all. After all, prosperity, happiness, and joy are expected to increase in the next year. What gift did the father of all Ukrainians, the head of state, President Yushchenko, prepare for us? How did he make his people happy? What he did to make this nation live in joy and prosperity. Perhaps the President believes that the Ukrainians have gladly supported his unconstitutional decision to dissolve Parliament and the fifth in the last two and a half years of elections. Then let him look people in the eye, in the eyes of the vast majority of Ukrainians who are opposed to chaos, insubordination, and the usurpation of power by orange leaders. Or maybe the President thinks he made people happy by forcing them into the streets to break away from his families and the great day’s preparations. From the beginning, orange leaders brought only sadness, economic degradation, and political chaos to our country. Since the first day of his activities, the incomprehensible to anyone President Yushchenko has only been consistent in one, a systematic violation of the legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. What is worth ignoring is article 118 of the Constitution of Ukraine regarding its obligation to decide on the resignation of the head of the local government in the event of a statement of mistrust by two thirds of the local council. Not reinstated as head of the Kyiv District State Administration, Jótec, who was reinstated by the Supreme Court at work. And the president said it was all a show. As we can see, it doesn't take much time to radically change the President's position on the Supreme Court's rulings on the victory of democracy in the 2004 election and the Jovtak show. We know that a coalition was created six months ago. And she remembered when she was a girl, eight months later, the president mentioned it. What was the last eight months since the creation of the coalition that the President had been in a lethargy dream or an intellectual coma?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u155	Please, Boris Bilash. Behind him is the mosquito.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u156	Dear Adam Ivanovich, dear colleagues. Today’s condition can be characterized by the words: She found sharp hair on a dull orange stone. Once upon a time, Churchill said, "It's a bad thing to watch you make sausage and politics." And we are keenly aware of what our orange opponents are doing to our people's consciousness. Indeed, the words of the classic can be said: Today is the time. There were worse times, but it wasn't worse. And all of this is said to be caused by our orange opponents. They don't think about the people, they only think about power. The people were for them and remained cattle. I have particularly penetrated, like a creative man, into our image, our return, Lady-BUT Timoshenko, and I want to read to you the following lines: "The orange poor again, People are in shock, Mom's washing, Mad Madame is not a joke. Inspirational lies and ryans, In the mind of power alone, Splatter from the TV screen Poisonous saliva. The likeness of the innocent. Be vigilant with the fox Over the fate of Ukraine The lady is pale with her hair.’ I want to say to our friends, first of all, that these lines came to mind, but what's going on in the house today. The President's cabinet, however, can be expressed as follows: “Under the sign of equality and brotherhood, dark matters are ripe here.” [[& Tiles]] They're really looking at these dark things. Yesterday, on the street, women happened to meet me and say, "Are you with the Party of Regions?" - "Yes" - I say. They say, “We are the only ones who support you now.” I realized that time is a doctor, that it cures all diseases, including cataracts. And here I feel like this disease, so to speak, people are beginning to understand. I want to take another turn and tell our orange friends that you're going to plant the wind, you're going to reap the storm. You cannot mock our people, especially on a day like the Passover. And that's what our people are talking about. Women say, "Do their weapons." I say, "What weapons do they have?" - "The hypocrisy, the insolence and the lies" - I say, "We can't do that, we have our weapons, it's true. And we are once again ready to sit at the armistice table.” Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u157	Thank you, Boris Fedorovich. Komar Mikola Stepanovich. Behind him, Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u158	Dear colleagues! The Yushchenko Ordinance on the early termination of parliamentary powers is clearly anti-constitutional. And the events of the last days show that the President and his environment are leading to the usurpation of power. There is an attempt at a coup d'état. Special concerns were raised by the President's attempts to draw the army into conflict, the force structures, not to mention the pressure on the judiciary. Article 60 of the Constitution: “No one shall comply with manifestly criminal orders or decrees. There is legal responsibility for the enforcement of manifestly criminal orders and decrees. We call on all members of the force, heads of local government, members of local councils not to deviate from this norm. Yushchenko's decree is supported by the newly appointed governors. The Supreme Council and the Cabinet are supported by people from all regions who come to Kiev with full determination to protect the constitutional order. The voices calling for decisive action against the Yushchenko conspiracy and the company are becoming increasingly popular. Many workers speak of their determination to protest the use of such measures as strike and, regrettably, these words will soon be backed up. There will be no early elections to the Supreme Council. The Party of the Regions does not intend to carry out any action related to the electoral process. All the talk about the start of the electoral campaign is provocation, farce, trying to get off with a headache. It is clear that no normal will of the people in the current situation can be achieved. The President's decree did not stop or suspend the powers of the Supreme Council and the People's Deputies. Under the Ukrainian Constitution, the powers of the Supreme Council do not cease until after the oath of the newly elected Council has been taken. [[Article 90]] People in different regions, through their representatives on local councils, through the mayors, protest against the Yushchenko Order, call on the Constitutional Court to give an objective and clear assessment of this act, which actually brings President Yushchenko out of the legal field. Any violation of the mandate of confidence in the Coalition of National Unity prior to the Constitutional Court's decision would be a gross usurpation of the rights of the people, and any authority that tried to trample on the rights of the people would accordingly be illegal. People trust us, let us fear nothing, let us fear those who will be responsible for their political adventure and extremism. We are building a state of law, and no one, not even the President, has the right to break the law, the Constitution. We are protecting the country's economy from politics and shocks, and we will not allow Ukraine to surrender to economic slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u159	Thank you. Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. Prepare Chetchev, Demidko passes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u160	The Socialist faction, Mikola Sadowa. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen, listen to me. Article 90 of the Constitution clearly defines the conditions under which the term of office of the Supreme Council is terminated. I'll remind you one more time. When the Supreme Council does not meet for a plenary session for 30 days. When, within 60 days of the resignation of the Cabinet of Ministers, the new government's personal composition has not been formed. And when a coalition of MP factions was not formed within 1 month in the Supreme Council, according to 83 articles of the Constitution. All of the above conditions of the Supreme Council have been fully implemented. Any citizen can determine for himself that the decree is of an anti-constitutional nature. To that end, we need to verify the conditions and text of the President's decree. Even high - school students come to the conclusion of the anticonstitutional nature of presidential action. The decree does not even contain references to article 90. And there's another fact, one trend. The opposition bloc recently managed three planes to the United States. The question is, what was the luck of this state on these three planes? One of the members of the electronic media, one of the members of the opposition bloc immediately in the 8 banks, converted a small amount of $1 billion into a bracelet. The fact that U.S. congressmen have already identified specific amounts to help carry out the elections is also a matter of concern. What if Ukraine’s national deputies had made a similar statement? So we can have all these charges answered? Is it technically possible to vote in our country? I will make a reference to the head of the Davidovich CEVK, which was expressed in the March 2007 People's MP magazine. He made it clear that there is no clear technology for organising early parliamentary campaigns. Article 102 of the Law on the Election of People’s Deputies significantly slashes electoral procedures that lead to a number of problems that cannot be solved. To be held. That is, according to his conclusion in Ukraine, you can't hold elections, technically. So I'm talking to all the officials: don't take part in the adventure, the early elections are not technically possible. And this is where Balog, Timoshenko, and others took the president. Yashchenko was never politically oriented and probably lost his way among women. And Julia's Volodymyr election is necessary to keep half the fractions in this state that they are. You'll have to answer for everything. Together we think what we're doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u161	Thank you, Nicholas Illich. Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, please. Hara's handing over the Ribuk to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u162	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Ukrainian Party of Regions Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters! I want to ask you one question. President Yushchenko has issued dozens of decrees throughout his tenure. You have not read most of these decrees, and you do not know what they are about. There is a legitimate question: why did the last decree, which was issued by the President, lead to extreme destabilization in society, to chaos, and put the country at the brink of disintegration? Why? The answer is only one: since this decree is anti-constitutional, it is issued outside the legal field. In my view, the country will never have a normal democratic perspective if the President reads the Constitution, not as it is written, but as he wishes or wishes his political supporters. In my view, the country will never have a normal democratic perspective if the President makes a decision, not in the constitutional field, but in the name of revolutionary or political expediency. And on this occasion, I would like to conduct a liqué for the President's immediate environment, which prepared this anti-constitutional decree and framed the President. In my view, it is not that it has no legal education, it probably has no secondary education, because it cannot read. So I'm addressing the President's environment: open up the liquefied country-wide, open the 19th article of the Constitution, written in white: State authorities and local authorities, their officials are obliged to act only on the basis of powers and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. This is the case with the President of the country. If the President or anyone in the immediate environment suddenly has a scratch, you might want to use the President's authority to get an early election. But they are clearly described in the 90th article, which makes three points hard, clear, and clear. None of these paragraphs, nor of these reasons, are the basis for an order. Victor Andreevich, society and people want the constitutional guarantor, the President of the country himself, to live and lead the country under the Constitution, not to break it. Victor Andreevich, in your hands, the key to the unity and stability of the country, which is at the core of economic growth and the enhancement of social standards for people's lives. The people are waiting for you, Mr. President, to repeal the anti-constitutional decree that leads the country to disaster, to dissipation. Let us await the decision of the Constitutional Court. Let us sit at the round table, the leaders of political parties and all the country's leadership, in the face of the President, the Prime Minister and the Head of the Supreme Council, and find a solution to all the evil problems for the State and for the people, not for individual political forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u163	Please, Rybub. Get ready for the Cuckoo, all right? I can't see. Pomorenko passes the word Melnichuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u164	People's deputy Ribukh, faction of the Party of the Regions, Zitomirščina. Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. Today, on the pre - Easter Friday, we do not all want to speak in high - pitched dynamics, but the situation remains very difficult. Because throughout the year the work of the parliament of today's opposition has done everything and is doing everything to compromise the national legislative authority and convince the head of state, the President, that there is a political crisis and all its signs. And they promised that the apopheus would be the spring of this political saying of the crisis. And the President took, without consulting the people, with Parliament all, and acknowledged that there was a political crisis, decided to eliminate it and issued an appropriate decree. And by this decree, three dots, he created a real, not just political, but political, legal crisis. And you know, I think about it as a human being as an MP, to a large extent, I see it as a human factor. What do I mean? Let's do a little chronology. Remember when President Yushchenko told his own son at the press conference that you, son, take the account in the restaurant and throw the journalist in the face. True, he said, not in the face, but worse, I can't do it again. Then one night, the President claims to the state that we will not be in the country as of tomorrow. I'm done. Accidents, disabilities, deaths, and so forth. The third, he says, in the morning, the President said that the best government is the government of Yulia Timoshenko, and he eliminated this government as a criminal by evening. Fourth, he was reinstated at the Supreme Court of Jóvtak in office. What statements? And now it is no wonder that the fifth time the President gives a decree on the electoral process at night and that we are already illegal. Do you understand? You can't have a leader in any kind of order making decisions in flashes, in anger and in a state of excitement. Victor Andryovich, we were taught by our parents and teachers, yours and ours, so that it wouldn't happen, is a reason to see inside ourselves. We have now made decisions, seeing the reason behind them, that have led the coalition to an appropriate state. You don't want to cancel the order? Let us at least pause until the decision of the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u165	Please, Ponomarenko has handed Michael Melniczuk over. Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich, we invite you to the rostrum and to the floor. Lissin. I can't see. Korsakov. Kruglov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u166	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear radio audiences, television audiences! Dear voters! I think that this week of intensive parliamentary work has proven once again who is elected by the people of Ukraine to work, and who is chosen to gloat and raise all new and new, say, proposals, demands for parliament, for society. Of course, all Ukraine today is not only under stress but is indignant. Indignantly, nearly 90 percent, if not 100 percent of the Ukrainians, who believe in God, who understands what this week is without regard, the President of the Believer issued a decree that practically raised the whole of Ukraine and the whole world, including our priests, who are certainly indignant in their own faith. But we will not touch this situation. Now, as we know, and not only do we know, but about 100 percent of the information is true, that the President has met once again with the judges of the Constitutional Court and not merely demands, but is pressing so hard that 11 does not take place and there is no appeal to comply with the decree of the President of the Constitution of Ukraine. Here's to you, honourable voters, the guarantor of the Constitution, here's the truth, here's to you, dear friends, and everything else, what we've heard all these years. I wouldn't want to cast a shadow on all the opposition MPs, a lot of decent people, a lot of people who live like all of Ukraine for what's happening to us. But this does not apply to the leaders of these political powers. They want to falsify elections, not elections, but appointments to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Because today, according to analysts, dozens of articles of the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies have already been violated by both the Central Electoral Commission and the constituencies of the electoral process, I am no longer referring to the President's unconstitutional decree. That's why I'm addressing all the villagers, because I'm close to you, dear villagers, I'm talking to the electorate of the Chernivian region: don't go to the elections, don't prepare for the elections, because they won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u167	Yes. I can't see Gurieva either. The bull gives Boko a word, John Sidorovich. He's out, let him get ready. A. The potato is, please, Stepan Stepanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u168	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Last night on a broadcast called "I think so" was about the possibility of holding elections in general. I'm not saying that they're illegal because the decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council is unconstitutional. I'm saying that this law, of course, was written when we couldn't even imagine that we would have such a constitutional guarantor who would suddenly force the Supreme Council and, in general, conduct the country's election in a row. In fact, it is not possible to make elections under this law. I want all Ukrainians, all Ukrainians to understand that. The point is that by law the territorial election committees are formed only by the submission of parliamentary parties and blocks. In view of the fact that the Party of Regions, the Party of Socialists, the Communist Party refuse to participate in this Sabbath, which is called the elections for the term, and our Ukraine does not have the right to run for office because the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine also refuses to support the anti-constitutional actions of the President. Thus, all the territorial election committees will form a glorious gas princess and her party. I'm not saying that she can't be trusted. I'm saying it won't be the will of the people. It'll be abuse of will, it'll be an attempt by one person to usurp power. And I want us not to let that happen. I was told that the president had given in to weakness, pressure, and so forth. I really think that the President of our two and a half years is in such an unnaturally fragmented position. He's like a soldier in his first year of service, who was first put on watch for the first time, and he wants to sleep, and it's a pity for his family. He must understand his responsibility and be convinced that the time is coming, and we will give him an assessment. And today, those who try to plunge the country into chaos, turmoil, civil conflict will answer not only to morals but to conscience but to the law. But now we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u169	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u170	We are now calling on all, indeed, democratic, responsible political forces to prevent the country from being plagued by turmoil. We are in favour of consolidating all the healthy forces so that the Ukrainian people will finally be able to work peacefully and the authorities will be responsible for their actions. Thank you for your attention. It will be, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u171	Thank you. Ephraim. I can't see. Condratiev. Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u172	Dear radios and television audiences! Dear voters! I'm talking to you first. When I get acquainted with media reports, most of which are unfortunately unsavory, and most of them are not willing to take over the situation, but they play at one door when I read information on the President’s website, or when I listen to some of the politics on radio or television break up, I want to say: “Do you people rush at what you are saying or writing? What are you, excuse me? Why are you pushing people away, making them so obsessed with you?" What exactly are you causing this discussion about? Around the legality of the presidential decree on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, because no one questions the President's right to do so, indeed, it has to be done legally. However, the question immediately arises: “Why are we talking only about the President’s decree? Why are we not referring to the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of April 2, and we are in general silent on the right of the Supreme Council to take such a decision? Why do some stress the obligation to comply with the President’s decrees by ceasing the same obligation to comply with the Supreme Council’s decrees? Because what's going on? Two authorities, the head of state and Parliament, have different assessments of the situation in Ukraine and have proposed ways of normalizing relations between themselves on the basis of their own understanding of the Basic Law. It would seem necessary to refer to the Constitutional Court, which alone can be an arbitrator in this opposition, to await its verdict, and if we respect the Constitution, to act in accordance with the so-called decision. That's what they do in civilized states, that's what they do in democratic societies. Yet, many media and apriorists, or Russian - speaking politicians, unquestionably claim that a constitutional decree must be followed. If there is a disagreement, seek the Constitutional Court in parallel. But who gave them the right to make such assessments? Why do they oppress the passions of society? Excuse me, but what about the rule that only the Constitutional Court can interpret the basic law and legislation in general? Neither the President nor the national deputies have such a right. Why do we prefer the Presidential Order and ignore the Supreme Council Order, which has no less legal power than the Order of the Head of State. We don't know that? What, though, if we obey the Order and the Constitutional Court admits that it is not legitimate? What will we do, and who will be responsible? Once again, I don't think this decree is legitimate. To conclude, on behalf of the coalition deputies, I would like to welcome all the Ukrainians with a bright holiday, the Resurrection of Christ, and apologize to you for those politicians.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u173	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u174	And for those politicians who have nothing holy and who, blinded by the pathological greed of power, have come to shore and roam society by the expression of a famous drummer, shake power even in days where it is customary to think about cleansing souls and thoughts. The truth is, it's from the devil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u175	Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u176	John Boki, the Socialist faction. On behalf of a group of deputies of all three factions of the coalition, I am introducing a draft statement by President Yushchenko to the Constitutional Court. Ukraine’s Constitutional Court took the lead in the submission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the unconstitutionality of the Presidential Order of 12 April 2007 on the termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth call. In violation of the Ukrainian Constitution and the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine exerts unprecedented pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court. He meets with them, concerned that the Constitutional Court has begun to consider promptly the submission of Parliament with regard to its decree of April 2. Instead of allowing the high court to have an open mind on the basis of the Constitution to have a hearing on the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council, the President faces the entire community in a shameless manner. And this is at a time when the other side of the political process -- the Supreme Council of Ukraine -- strictly adheres to the legality, non-interference in the trial. The President's pressure on the Constitutional Court is seen as one of the factors behind legitimizing the anti-State rebellion by the reaction forces. In connection with this unfolding of events, the Supreme Council of Ukraine reserves the right to seek the services of international mediators, to seek the assistance of international organisations, state-guaranteed states of the sovereignty of Ukraine, to help resolve the political situation in our country. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I have a proposal: the text of this statement to vote at the next plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, which, as we have agreed, the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine may call at any time necessary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u177	Thank you, Ivan Sidorovich. I think we'll support this idea. The address has been made public, and it has already been brought to our citizens. When there's a plenary session, and when it's hard to say, we'll make that decision right away. Yes, please, of those who sign up, I see the Mordecai. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u178	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sumska District Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected TV audiences and viewers! In terms of today's social and political situation, it should be noted that the main reason for the sluggish anti-State, anti-constitutional coup is the desire of the Presidential environment and those political adventurers who were defeated in last year's elections to restore all power to their own hands. It is well known that in February 2005, after the presidential elections, they were given this power and had every opportunity to show themselves to show how capable they are, effective reformers. And as a result, what do we have? We have that, in fact, during the six-and-a-half-year stay in power, the economy of our Ukraine has been brought to zero. The gross domestic product actually fell to zero. Remember, in 2006, the President announced that year in the village. But let's ask our citizens today what was the essence of this program, what was the action taken, what was the result of this program. It's worth looking at our sumen, which is the kind of president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko. Take a special look at his native Nedrigal region. Where virtually every agricultural enterprise today is bankrupt. And the agrarian branch in the area is headed by his countryman, former head of the Vladimir Sapsai agrofirm. Walking through the villages of the Sustens today. Destroyed, destroyed agricultural enterprises. This is the result of these reforms. They had a chance to carry out these reforms, to show the results of their work. The people will give them an estimate. The people assigned themselves to other political powers to show themselves. Today’s government shows examples of economic growth, economic stability. Thus, efforts to bring about an anti - state coup will not be successful. The citizens of Ukraine are wise people, they will not allow an anti-constitutional coup to take place, the way out of this is to bring together all the well-balanced political forces of Ukraine just all the way out of the entire artificial crisis created by today's ruling elite.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-06-m0.u179	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, all who signed up and showed a desire to share their views on the situation, could do so. I'm informing you and reminding you that next week the national MPs are working on committees and MP factions. The plenary meeting will take place at 10 a.m. on April 17. But I would like to remind you that on Wednesday we have decided with you that the national MPs should be ready to participate in the extraordinary plenary meeting of the Supreme Council, which can be convened either by the Head of the Supreme Council or by his First Deputy at any time necessary for this. So I ask again -- and once again, knowing and understanding the situation, we have made this decision -- the next plenary week, everyone in place, but these weekends also have to be in their jobs, because the situation can change at any time and the need for the Supreme Council to react. In conclusion, our honourable colleagues, our meeting, let's all welcome the Ukrainian people with Easter. May this light festival become a harbinger of harmony in our Ukrainian society. That's how it's supposed to be. And I personally, and I think we all have strong faith in that. With the celebration of all of you. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
