ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, other meeting participants, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, TV sets, radio audiences, journalists. Please prepare for the registration of deputies. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:36]] 269 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. Let's welcome to the birthday of Inn Vershin and Mitroshkin Igor Aleksandrovitch. We wish them success, good. Well, Inna's here, you see. [[Applause]] I notice that Vladimir Mikolaiovich is always in a hurry to greet women. Before you calm down, I mean, in one of the wings of our room, I mean, in my opinion, it's pretty good news for the parents of the students. Yesterday, the government committee recommended that the government increase the government’s government’s supply of free, or budget, training by almost four percent. Let me remind you that there were 57 percent -- now there's going to be more than 60. The specialists are almost three percent out of four, 11 percent masters. [[It's on the third to the fourth and fifth course.]] In fact, almost everyone who has received a Bachelor’s degree in four years will be able to become a specialist or a master at a budget. Of course, if they learn well. So it's defined by the Science and Technology Act, and that's actually what coalition and government do in this particular direction. I think it'll be good for the parents, and it'll be good for them. We have 30 minutes in line with our rulings of the Supreme Council and the Rules for statements by factions with proposals, announcements, statements and individual statements. I'm asking you to sign up. Please. The factions have registered. Now in private, please. Yes, please, Simonenko from the Communists. Then Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk instead of Savosin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, our constituents. Simonenko, the Communist faction. I would like to state the following on behalf of the faction. The political crisis, artificially created by the President and his orange team, as we can see, is having a major impact today on the country's economy and on the social problems that have put life in order to improve the quality of life of our citizens. Despite some reinforcements and positive developments in helping our rural workers and the problems of the coalition Government, many of the acute problems in these circumstances today are of particular concern. First of all, the President's programme of accession to the World Trade Organization does not allow for the creation of a food balance, particularly at the grain level, of a sunflower. By the way, our position, the Communist factions, is to prevent exports without customs collection, and, of course, we condemn the decision taken on the WTO accession programme. Today the balance is needed for sugar, meat, milk, eggs, potatoes. That is, it is necessary to strike a real balance next year in a drought for a 46 million-dollar State in order to feed the people and save them from various problems. This situation, a political artificial crisis, today also prevents us from identifying which products to export, how much to set up customs collection and to protect our domestic producer and consumer again. On the basis of a balance sheet, to determine the volume of imports, to establish strict control over the types and quality of products, the objective of today alone and the faction of communists calls upon all coalition colleagues not to allow the Ukrainian village to be destroyed definitively. In a situation where the orange team does not allow for real formation, the return, the formation of a real budget, today we are facing artificial problems on food resources next year. And, of course, we need to make a decision today to keep the crop material last year under the 2008 crop, both in winter and bright, which is about four million tons. Strong measures must be taken to ensure that the chemical industry works primarily in the Ukrainian village. Up to 80 percent of mineral fertilizers are exported, and organic fertilizers are not available today. The effects of drought have been cataclysmicly increased as a result of a severe criminal violation of the mineral and organic fertilizer balance. Orange here is the situation and the orange madness that we have today in the country, which has led us to a crop shortage that has led us to a mass slaughter of cattle and to a price for nothing. Our Ukrainian village is once again being killed by a private plot that is almost decommissioned today. This situation does not fully address the issue of compensation for credit rates by farmers and the collective economy. That is to say, funds are being diverted to the so-called elections, and once again we are asking the question that such policies are destroying our village. Of course, the problem of melioration this year has shown what this will lead to, because in the southern areas, the highest-grained breads, almost two thirds of the grains today are left without irrigation, and the orange ones continue to think about the elections, forgetting that we must feed our people first. Of course, respected colleagues, we must speak frankly to our voters today, we have lost stability in the production of bread, and we have spent ten times less money on the development of the irrigated land system than we did in 90 years. And the techniques that we can and should gather this year. All are well aware that the yield is about 90 per cent per species. Radical measures are not adopted, import import rates are not fully justified, and they are nearly ten times ours. More than 300 agricultural plants need to be rebuilt. And we suggest, communists, seriously, no matter what the oranges interfere with, that the State Committee for Agriculture be restored. Until the end of the moratorium on land sales, there were almost seven months left. We need to be very serious, respected colleagues, as far as oranges are concerned, seriously prepare for this process, because almost in the face of a catastrophic decline in production, agriculture and the depreciation of our lands, the land will be sold to foreign citizens for no price. Therefore, I believe that the Constitution should be amended by foreign nationals, that the country of Ukraine should in no way be left to sell, nor by any other form.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u3	Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolaiovich, followed by Pachešuk. Pachesuk will be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u4	Dear colleagues! National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine It's vinyl. Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! In two weeks, we will celebrate the 11th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of Ukraine. Never before has the anniversary of the approval of the Basic Law been in the midst of such humiliation of this most important legislative act of the State. Never before, and hopefully, after that, the guarantor of the Constitution and its environment never so cynically trampled on the Basic Law or wiped their feet on it. “The bloom of democracy”, I take these words as quotes, has reached a stage in Ukraine where the head of state explains the norms and rights of the Constitutional Court, the only body of constitutional jurisdiction. The coup continues, with the ultimate aim not only of ensuring a rematch of the political forces that have demonstrated their professional inadequacy, but also of establishing such a regime of one-man government of the President, compared to what period Leonid Kuchma will be in charge of us. It is known that the President will try, at the same time as the election, to extend the new Constitution through the referendum that he has initiated, or at least the main pillars of its ideas that would give him the right to do so, he believes, to act without regard for any parliament: old, new, etc. And then the Constitution will be followed, not by the spirit that our president likes to refer to, but by the soul, by the miasms. For that to happen, we need to consolidate the idea of protecting the Constitution, because those who beat it have betrayed the ideals of the field to which they constantly appeal. We see how they “set the bandits on the prowl” and how “the rich have already shared with the poor” as they lived by law in the capital in places, not by “ideals” as “separate power from business”, etc. It was under these terms that they spoke in 2004, and a large number of our fellow countrymen believed them. So, dear fellow countrymen, be vigilant, do not let the political worlds go one more time “to round your fingers. ” The majority coalition in the Supreme Council and the government we have formed, despite our limited capacity to enforce the laws that we are adopting and the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers in life, should not fail. We need to act in strict compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, remembering that Ukraine, which, as recorded in the article of its First Basic Law, is, among other things, a legal, social, and democratic state. On behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, I welcome those of our colleagues who do not join the majority faction, but who respect the Constitution, who are willing to work in the Supreme Council in the form of constructive opposition, in an honest political struggle, defending their position, their beliefs, while advocating the majority to contribute to the improvement of Ukraine's legislation. And another clarification. We are asked to explain to our voters in connection with a publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, No. 100 of June 9, 2007: Are MPs Jaroslav Mendus, Gennady Savosin, Anatoly Bugajec, Stepan Bulba forming their parliamentary mandates? On this point, we state the following: a photograph in which the mentioned deputies were not well placed in a material entitled “28 deputies have been appointed”. That's what called our voters. Socialist MPs have never written or ignored the confidence of the electorate, as the deputies of the faction “Our Ukraine” and the BUT have done. For us, first and foremost, the mercantile interests of the electorate of the state are not at stake, but it is important for us to keep our pre-election promises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u5	Thank you. Platinum, followed by Baranowski instead of Bondarczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u6	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Respectable citizens, respectable colleagues! Unfortunately, I was three months away from being plunged into a filthy wave of political crisis that was artificially created by Yulia Timoshenko and adventurers around President Yushchenk. During this difficult time, the Party of the Regions' MPs have consistently advocated the return of the parties to the conflict to the legal field for resolving all issues within the framework of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Aware of the danger of further escalation of tensions in society, the Party of Regions agreed to hold a timely election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine if there were legal grounds for this. This decision was not easy, but it was a matter of stability, unity, and well - being. The party of regions clearly states that we are ready for fair elections and we will win. The highest confidence of the electorate will enable us to re-establish the government and continue the campaign initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Viktor Yanukovitch aimed at increasing the domestic economy and raising the living standards of our country's citizens. We need authority to improve people's well-being, not to satisfy a painful desire at all costs, to get into the soft chair that Timoshenko and her guardians tear down. There is no legal basis for early elections in Ukraine. This is confirmed by the international democratic community of the previous elections of 2006, in which the voters expressed the highest confidence in the Party of the Regions. The economy is growing, and wages, pensions, began to grow. The success of the government of Yanukovitch has caused the opposition to fear of moving away forever on the sidelines of great politics. The only possibility for them to stay in the spotlight was the path of political adventure, and that is exactly the kind of adventure in a stable country. The leaders of the Party of Regions have repeatedly stressed that the party will go to elections if they take place on legal grounds. The government and the parliamentary majority have fulfilled their part of the political agreements reached on May 27, the ball on the side of the opposition. However, opposition deputies are not in a great hurry to listen to their leaders and to form mandates. Maybe the opposition leaders don't want this election. In fact, they wanted to destabilize the country so that they could catch their fish in a rocked hand that had not been stolen, water. Then let them tell the people honestly about their intentions. Perhaps the electorate will apologize for their bankrupt role models and give them a chance to renovate in places specifically set aside for this purpose. Finally, it would be wonderful for the European future of Ukraine if the President, as a politician, took sides not only in opposition but in countries as a whole. Then the country would know the true value of its heroes. As long as the President remains in his place, we demand that he have at least an elementary control over his insidious surroundings. In particular, the faction of the Party of the Regions requires the cessation of betting on the Central Election Commission. We're asking the Head of CEVK Shapaval to appoint a committee meeting and stop adopting one-person decisions in the narrow circle of the President's group of friends appointed by Parliament, by the way, to the composition of the CEVC, or oddly enough, the President's side wanted a presidential election, and today it's blocking the work of the only collegiate state authority entrusted with powers, in particular with the preparation and conduct of the elections of the Ukrainian National Deputies. The CEVC should work properly, only in the right field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u7	Thank you. Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u8	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. During the initiative of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, six years ago, the U.S. National Union for the Protection of Children of War, which I have the privilege of leading today, was organized and is now in operation. The purpose of this organization was to bring people together, in different political views, who were direct participants in the war, but who were thrown away were a society. The participants in the war were active or passive -- that's another thing, but the fact that they actually participated in those events is undeniable. Because we understand that children are more vulnerable, both morally and physically, than adults. They are more vulnerable both to cold and hunger, and to all the other problems of war. When they were grouped together, the question was to resolve the issue of maximum social protection. During these years, they have been formed in all areas of district, city, and district organizations of the All - Ukrainian Society for the Protection of Children of War. As I have pointed out, the unification has been carried out according to the political preferences of the people. And today their fixed numbers already number about two million in Ukraine. In many district centers, cities, and areas, these people have created their respective joint funds, where they raise small funds and provide support to their own disadvantaged colleagues. Three years ago, my colleague Mikola Rudzkowski and I passed a law on the protection of children of war, which was supported by Parliament, and this year for the first time after the coalition, the law began to work. We realize that he's still not working as hard as he can, but he started working. And we are confident that he will work full - time in the coming years. Regrettably, today individual political forces are trying to break up this unification of citizens by actions that today, I would not say, are moral. Various political forces are now trying to form a separate organization for the protection of children of war. I think we've been through this before. And it's long since been said to be a summer canula, but some still have a lot of itch. And that's why today I have information that for tomorrow, more faithfully, sorry, today in Kharkiv, one of the political forces is trying to gather people from Ukraine and essentially mislead and organize something. I would like to say this, for this reason, that no organization that will not be formed will do anything to better the children of war tomorrow. They're looking for their political advantages here. And only the only organization of the All - Ukrainian Society for the Protection of Children of War, which is today monolithic, can protect itself in this society from all problems. So let us stick together! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u9	Popescu, please, Ivan Vasilovich. Then Samuel instead of the Freeman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u10	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. The noble colleagues, yesterday a round table was held in the Ukrainian House, organized by the State of Creligion, on the implementation of the European Charter of Regional Languages or Minority Languages. As a result of the discussion during which representatives of both government and nongovernmental organizations spoke, it became clear that there was no effective mechanism for the implementation of the Charter today. And why did this happen? And a very interesting thing happened. And the fact is that since 1999, the Foreign Ministry has started to block any attempt to fulfil our obligations to the Council of Europe and to the language issues. At first, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tarasyuk, did not file a ratification letter, and then awaited the decision of the Constitutional Court when the decision on non-constitutionality was taken, not the content of the law, but the ratification procedure, but then they forgot that the sixth protocol on the abolition of the death penalty had been ratified under the same procedure, then in 2003 it was ratified in the new version of the law, and a new edition was adopted, but there was a violation of 22 articles on the non-admission of existing rights and freedoms in the adoption of new laws. Once again, however, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs failed to pass these laws in time. Today, there is no mechanism, and local authorities do not want to spend money on the implementation of this law. Moreover, in 1999, when we passed this law, we laid down this mechanism. Today, the Ministry of Justice, continuing with the practice that Minister Zvaric initiated, has prepared a report to the Council of Europe, in which, instead of talking about language groups, it again speaks of national minorities. And the paper provides for the issue of language groups, media rights. So today it has been decided that the Human Rights Committee, together with the Committee on Human Rights, should raise questions about the conduct of appropriate hearings in Parliament in order to eliminate speculation about the language issue. Taking advantage of the opportunity, I wanted to bring to the attention of the local authorities in the Stryzinetsky region and ask how the gasification of the Romanian-speaking villages is happening, how the roads are being restored at the Budenec-Hort Petrovka-Kupka section, or today they are criticizing the MPs from the coalition, and they are not doing anything in this direction. And finally, I would like to ask what happens in the woods when they begin and continue to be destroyed? Thank you for your attention. And I hope that when I arrive in the area, we will meet and talk to the local authorities about how they carry out their duties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u11	Samolikka Katerina Seminovna. Then Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u12	Dear voters! Whatever the block of July Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine” wants to destroy the system of government, state institutions, life goes on. And that's why we get a lot of letters from you every day, your feedback, your suggestions about our work. And I'm very pleased that you're looking at the higher legislative body of our power, at its legitimacy, so you're addressing us, the Ukrainian national deputies, to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In general, I am so pleased that average laborers, intellectuals, are more interested in the existence of our state, sovereignty, independence of our state than in some who speak, beating themselves in the chest, that they love our state very much. The orange team declared war not only to the Supreme Council of Ukraine but also to all the people of Ukraine, ignoring their choice. And the only desire of the President's office is a complete paralysis of power that will allow such a father-in-law, the perfect hetman of Ukraine, to be put on the throne, to show us what a democracy is, and what a democracy is in orange. And people are asking us how the recovery of children is going to go this year. It's a question of questions! Indeed, we have a very big problem, both with health and with the health of our children. Other questions are of interest to our people. The school year is over, and parents are anxious to ask: "What is the future of our children? Is it possible to build an ark for all the people of Ukraine and move it to the United States to provide them with a beautiful life there?" This concerns the people of Ukraine. Our people ask the question: do children graduate from vocational schools, institutes, how do they end up with jobs? Mr. President, don't fight the legislature, don't wage a war with the people of Ukraine, please make sure you keep your promises. You promised five million jobs — where are they? Why are our children scattered around the world, young, beautiful, talented? Who will protect them, who will provide them with a job, a life worth living, and a decent salary? And once again, I want to say that the people believe in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and this is a major assessment. Let the President paralyze all state institutions, but most importantly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u13	One minute. Three seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u14	Three seconds, but the head of the government is addressing us, trusting us, and believing that only we can solve important government issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u15	Thank you, thank you. Matthew, more loyally, Zibenko Peter Stepanovich, takes time and Baburi’s deputy, but if we save some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction. Honourable citizens of Ukraine, on behalf of the Supreme Council, received a call from 30 civil organizations and political parties in the country, which is called: “We will give away nationalism.” I would like to introduce you to the context of this reference. On May 10, 2007, members of the Lviv City Council decided to support the appeal of the MP’s faction of freedom with the proposal to create a temporary deputy commission to determine the list of monuments and symbols of Ipmerskian-Bilschovian domination to be dismantled in the city of Lviv. In the opinion of the freemen, first and foremost, the Order of Victory on the monument of Soviet glory on the street of Strysk and the monument to the fighters of the First Horse Army of the Buzek district of Lviv. In favour of the Lviv City Council, 50 of the 57 deputies registered in the Assembly Hall voted. Thus, the Levite dignitaries deliberately decided to face the world’s public with hard - hearted nationalists who were willing to divide Ukraine. The problem of urban transport, the chaos of municipal services, housing, gas, and water problems went a long way. The people's servants decided to conduct a survey of monuments, super-powerful plates and memorial boards in search of the “major” symbols of the historical past: stars, images of sickle and hammer, etc. [[in quotes]] Anything that does not fit their concept must certainly be destroyed. It's no use. The memory of our history, the Great Homeland War, is immortal. Most likely, in the light of the latest events in Estonia involving the transfer of the bronze soldier-liberator, the Lviv City Council members have simply claimed to be on the eve of the pre-election elections and also to justify their inaction. It's all new. Lviv has long become a city where vandals of all imaginations feel free. The recently renamed streets, squares, cinemas, named after the heroes of the Great Homeland War, destroyed memorial boards, removed from the pedestal by a guard tank, the dismantled monument of the underground organization "The People's Guard of the Name of Frank" that operated in Lviv, as well as the memorial board of 19-year-old member of this organization, Andry Hapi, who died by the hands of the fascists. Broke plates on a soldier's memorial on the hill of Glory. Everything that was Soviet and under the red star is being destroyed. And it's not just that. The approval of the Lviv City Council was a signal for further destruction. Two days after the adoption, heroes were taken into custody at the Alley, which was destroyed and looted on the hill of Slava by a bronze gorilla who framed the Alley of Heroes. Hatred is the dominant feeling of the invaders. An elaborate bust of Pushkin on the pediment of the Russian Cultural Center’s home in Lviv. The destroyed Museum of the world-renowned Nesterov Flyer and stooped on the scene of the death of a legendary pilot. The Museum of Slava Hill, the Museum of Military History of the Prikarpatsk Military District, was canceled, and granite plates were added to the list of military units and associations involved in the liberation of Lviv and Lviv region. Do these nationally-occupied paranoids of history really reflect the opinion of the inhabitants of Lviv? I'm sure you don't. A testimony to this is a multi-million-dollar demonstration at the Soldier Memorial on the hill of the Glory of May 9, this year, the mass of living flowers and crowns on the military graves. On the basis of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, we, representatives of civil and political organizations, require the Lviv City and District Council, the Lviv District Administration, to take steps in accordance with article 54 of the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine on the Emancipation of Victory in the Great Indian War of 1941-1945, to carry out the prescribed legal acts and to prevent acts of vandalism in relation to military cemeteries, military sites in civilian cemeteries, brotherly and lonely graves, sculptural, architectural and other facilities and objects that perpetuate the events of the Great Nativity War and the promotions of its participants and to publicly condemn acts of nationalism on the basis of the State. Decisions taken by local authorities that affect the interests of many national groups should be taken only in the light of the interests of public and political organizations operating in the territory concerned and in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Any attempt to revive fascism and fascist parties, as well as calls to it in the territory of Lviv and the Lviv region, must find a legal assessment in the legal bodies. On behalf of the committees, I would like to assure both the citizens of Ukraine and my fellow members of the national deputies that we will refer the said appeal to the Attorney General's Office, requiring an appropriate legal assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is given by Daniel Alexei Viacheslavovich, a member of the faction of the Block of Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! In recent times, media reports have appeared about the creation of BUTT-2. Members of the Free Democrat faction have never filed an application for an exit from factions, and we therefore consider it a political paranoia to reenter BUT-2. I can say more, two BUITs can't stand either Parliament or our country. Yesterday, a party of free democrats met again, confirming our opposition between factional unification and power in Ukraine. With the “power” we mean, first, this is the majority in the Supreme Council, second, the formed government by the majority, along with the President, and third, this is the President of Ukraine. I can say what's happening in the country right now is that the country is on the verge of very powerful shocks, and there's no one interested. We're surprised by the statements made here by the Party of Regions that they today disagree with the President, disagree with the opposition that they're calling for elections. Dear friends, don't you have an appointment with the President at night, or do you have any meetings at night that are underground, that are closed to society, that you're assigning some kind of election for September 30th, that's not clear why, and then you start running a new goat. Dear friends, let us be honest if today the Ukrainian national deputies who swore an oath to the Ukrainian people do not understand the whole problem that is in society today. And the problem is not in Yushchenko, not in opposition, not in general, the problem is much bigger. Today, the question is whether Ukraine will exist within the limits that it exists today or not. And it's a big, complicated task for us, or we're going to take it together, or we're going to go and destroy all the government institutions. We have a ruined Constitutional Court, we have a destroyed Central Electoral Commission, which for some reason, for the reasons that it was formed, we have destroyed Ukrainian courts. The Supreme Council was left to be destroyed, and then, I don't know at all what institutions of power would remain in the state. Once again, either we unite and resolve these common issues together, or the turmoil that continues will destroy our entire nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u19	Thank you. I think that Alexia Viacheslavovich Danielov’s statement is very specific and correct. And it's good that these words are spoken by a representative of the opposition, because really the situation is more serious, it doesn't seem at first sight. We have a lot of problems in Ukraine today, but one of the biggest problems is that it's totally discrediting the institutions of the state, the institutions of power, it's going to respond many, many more times. And you don't have to think that it's just us, let's say that today, the opposition with the coalition got into a fight, it claims its advantages, it's about its prospects, today the president was offended by the fact that there's not the powers in the Cabinet of Ministers and so on, here's what we're going to do now, let's do the election now, or else we're going to do something else. This is so much more serious! It's a threat to the state at all! And we need to evaluate this situation, and I fully support the words that have spoken here, and they've actually sounded here and not once. The authority of all institutions is being undermined today. See sociology: the President's Institute, Parliament, the Court, the Prosecutor's Office, other structures and institutions of power. How can a person today be trusted if he cannot appeal to a court with faith that the court will make a just decision regarding him? As you can see, for two and a half months now, the work of the Constitutional Court has been blocked, the charges went first, what you can see is that it didn't work for a long time, then that it didn't make important decisions, and when it started making important decisions, it was just blocked, trying to try, or push, or replace, or put people there who had no right to work in court and didn't take an oath, didn't make an oath in Parliament -- it's more serious than it seems. What we see is how we feel about the formation of courts in cities and we understand very well that this is all about preparing for the falsification of elections when, contrary to the Constitutional Court's conclusion, the decision that the President cannot be appointed to administrative positions in the courts of officials is still done. How will they do justice? As they do so, let us say that the coordination of the work of the judges regarding certain or other matters is clear and clear. What democracy can be talked about, what right, which Constitution, compliance with the Constitution can be discussed when the Constitutional Court does not work in the country. We've created a sort of effectively working or maybe ready for the Central Electoral Commission to work effectively. It turns out that the Central Electoral Commission cannot meet because all its members who are represented there represent the President or the opposition do not go to meetings, violating the law, the basic law, and today the issue of bringing to justice those who do not perform constitutional duties is a higher body with specific powers in the State. We yesterday, the viewers observe how the Central Electoral Commission met at the initiative of five members, eight members of the Commission sitting, and seven no. Well, how long can you wait for these things? And why not, they all give a great answer, because the Central Electoral Commission has to be unable to decide on the replacement of those MPs who don't want to work in Parliament, and those 600 people are listed on the rosters that are ready to work and will come to the session room tomorrow. No, let's make it seem like an artificial condition for the election to be held in the next few weeks. I mean, it's not written in a joint statement, I emphasize again, it's not that. I, at least, and the Prime Minister, signed for the fact that the elections are possible for the next September 30th, but if there are legitimate constitutional grounds, we need to create them, and whoever made the commitments, let him create them. But in the 7 points of this statement, no one has the right to intervene in law enforcement, in court and in other branches of government, and we see that this is not the case. So, I think we're being followed by our work today, not just by viewers, Ukrainian citizens, but by people who believe that we're going to get out anyway, we're going to go into constitutional space or not, or we're going to continue to play with the law, with state institutions, with the state in general, and think that that's going to happen for individuals. But it's fundamental, and it's most unfortunate for the state. So I appeal with respect to the opposition who are starting to work in the session room. To others who do not agree with those forged, by the way, statements by not one MP regarding their understanding of their responsibility for Ukraine’s prospects. I hope that this understanding will become more and more conscious and directly involved and citizens who understand the essence of what is happening today in Ukraine. Again, it's not a simple game. This is a very dangerous matter for Ukraine. Finally, as I continue this topic, I will now announce the statements of those national deputies who were precisely at the meeting when they claimed their unwillingness to work in specific factions. In order to transmit these materials to the Central Electoral Commission and to publish them in the Voice of Ukraine newspaper, and to enable the Secretariat to count those people who do not want to work and to give them work books. And also to release or terminate legal relations or employment relations with those who were taken to work in the apparatus and other authorities as consultants or referees and so forth. Before that, I would like to welcome the radio “Era” which is now five years old. And it's a radio that constantly objectively informs the situation in politics, the state, allowing representatives of one and another political power to express their thoughts so that people can draw the right conclusions for themselves. And now I'm going to write, I'm going to read, according to the Rules. And you'll forgive me for doing such a boring thing because it made all the same sense. But that is what the Rules require. Otherwise, someone may refer to the court, say, I or I have not been in session, as required by the Supreme Council's ruling, either not so written, or I have not been read and then I will resume my duties through the court. That's why I have to do this, and you listen very carefully. To the Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Ukrainian Deputy of Belarus, Oleg Grigorovic, a member of the deputy faction “Blocca Yulia Timoshenko” statement. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” by the list of which I was elected National Deputy of Ukraine, my powers as National Deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine. The signature of Oleg Belarus. With great respect to this MP, a learned MP, I would like to point out that he clearly refers to article 81, the articles of the Constitution of Ukraine where, by the way, it is written that powers are terminated on the basis of the law. As an enlightened legislator, he knows that there is no such law. Maybe that's what he meant, but I think he's been writing this statement sincerely and stressing the words of respect for him, but I'm announcing its contents. From Lev Vasilovich Biruk. With a view to giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, which was elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my mandate as Ukrainian National Deputy is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine. And the signature. He verbally confirmed his signature, and it was the secretarial staff who established it. Olga Bodnar also writes a statement of this content. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my exit from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the MP's "Julia Timoshenko Block", which listed me as the national deputy of the fifth vocation, my mandate as the national deputy of the fifth vocation is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So does Olena Bondarenko, Olena Fedorovna Bondarenko. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko, which I was selected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my mandate as the Ukrainian National Deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Alexander Budgerak writes a statement of this content. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko, which I was selected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my mandate as the Ukrainian National Deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Mikhailo Volinec writes such a statement. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of Yulia Timoshenko, which I was selected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my mandate as the Ukrainian National Deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I want to say something. Applications are being announced, and you can pick them up immediately if you have questions about employment books. Because you don't have to take journalists with cameras here, thinking someone's going to block this procedure. Take it away, do not go to the head or to other representatives. Go to HR, your books are there. Statement by Igor Vorotnyuk. “In order to provide the President with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as a national deputy is to be suspended in accordance with the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Some of the authors of these statements may then check them out at the secretariat, while correcting some editorial errors. I read it the way it should be written, but keep in mind. That such facts are, unfortunately, there are. Peter Haszuk writes: “In order to provide the President with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency of Yulia’s constituency, Timoshenko, on whose list I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my authority as a national deputy is to be terminated in order, part of the sixth article of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. [[he missed the word “predicted”]] Yuri Gnatkevitch also writes a statement of this content: “In order to provide the President with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” on the list of which I was elected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my mandate as a national deputy is to be suspended in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” You're paying attention, obviously, that everyone cares about the President's additional reasons for issuing the decree, because everyone understands very well that he didn't have a reason. Basil Trees writes a statement of this content: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” A similar statement is made by Vladimir Donczak. Statement: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Donczak's signature, April 18th -- I called that number because they're all the same -- April 18th of this year's statement. The same is true of Igor Jereshko, Igor Hennadiovich Jereshko. Statement: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” He also signed April 18 as well as all the other authors of the applications. Roman Zabzaluk writes this statement: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of the "Julia Tymoshenko" that I was elected as the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18’. Eugene Zimin wrote a statement of this content. “For the purpose of submitting, giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for terminating the terms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of the "Julia Timoshenko" which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Oh, not Jareshka, Jarezka, I'm sorry. So we're correcting the transcripts. But Igor Jaresko will not be offended, for he wrote beautifully, but not quite clearly. April 18th. Valentino Valentino Valentino Sergiyyovich, member of the MP's "Julia Timoshenko Block" wrote a statement of this content: “For the purpose of submitting, giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for terminating the terms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the election block of Yulia Timoshenko, which I was elected by the Ukrainian People's Deputy, I am ordered to cease in order.” He missed the words “my authority”, obviously. “They shall cease in the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Well, he can fix an editorial error here. I think he'll have time for that. Valérie Calchenko wrote a statement of this content: “For the purpose of submitting, providing the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for suspending the terms of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my rights as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Also on April 18, a statement was written. Valérie Kamchatny wrote a statement of this content. ‘The application. With a view to giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” He wrote the application on April 17, not 18. And so on April 17th, Eugene Kirilchuk wrote his statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of “Julia Tymoshenko”, which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Signed on his own, as he claimed at session 27. It doesn't look like it's 27 or 27? Adam Ivanovich, when was this? Oh, that was about eight days ago, nine days ago. Mikola Kovzal wrote a statement of this content. ‘The application. With a view to giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko. ” In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81. Andrew Kozemyakin wrote this statement: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my exit, the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. [[Missed here “from the MP’s faction” must be understood]] In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my authority as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18th, a statement was written. Once again, I say that they can correct editorial errors that occur with MPs, because of the fact that they have prepared and worried about the responsible document, and it is quite possible. Vitaly Corge wrote this statement: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the mandate of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. [[here is actually “the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine”]] In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, on which I was elected as the elected national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Written statement on April 18th. Similarly, on April 18, Paul Kostenko wrote his application. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, on the list of which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 71, nor has he made a mistake, 81 and not 71 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Peter Krawchuk wrote a statement that I am about to read. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with the withdrawal from the parliamentary faction of the election bloc “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, which has been elected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, my mandate is to be terminated in accordance with article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” On the 18th, April 18th, I mean. Yuri Crook writes as follows: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with the withdrawal from the parliamentary faction of the election block “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”, which I have been elected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the National Deputy of Ukraine are subject to suspension in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” April 18, wrote the raven. And Stephen Kurpil also wrote 18 numbers and wrote: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for terminating the terms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with the withdrawal from the constituency faction of the constituency of the constituency “Clocus of Yulia Timoshenko”, the list of which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine shall be suspended in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Deputy Kirowski Ivan Ivanovich writes a statement of this content: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for terminating the terms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko” in connection with the withdrawal from the deputy faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, on which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine shall be suspended in accordance with the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” April 18 is also written. And on April 18 the original application is Oleg Lukashuk. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. On April 18, too, Lukyanchuk R.V. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. I'm paying attention, here we can see that xerox doesn't work clearly, or maybe it did, a lot of statements written without a dot. And I think it's symbolic, there's not a dot there yet. Oleg Lazko writes a statement of this kind and also, by the way, April 18. A statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Writes a similar statement. That's probably it. Right? Now, why don't you get out of the way for now, and I'll read Viachelav Pierreya's statement, which is, I think, similar to what she's saying. Pierre. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the Yulia Timoshenko faction. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine. Yes or no?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u20	Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u21	Oh, Odarchenko was a statement that I misread because he has a very beautiful handwriting. A statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of “Julia Tymoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” And the signature was made on April 18, probably. Mikola Petruk is writing a statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction, the constituency block of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected national deputy of Ukraine, my authority as Ukrainian national deputy is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Well, there are such missed lines in applications, I think it's also natural because they were all written in the same pattern and. automatically, when copied, skips a string. So once again, I intend to remind the MPs who are concerned, because these are historical documents, so that no mistakes can be made there, correct them, go to the Secretariat. He's writing a statement to Vadim Petrenko. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. It was written on April 18, as it was written on April 18. A statement. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the election block of Yulia Timoshenko, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. That's the same statement I wrote, I think, according to the context, Igor Rybakov. In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, whose list I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Sas Sergius also writes his application on April 18. With a view to giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the election block of Yulia Timoshenko, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine. Not much longer. Yuri Serbin wrote the application. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. As a result of the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, on the list of which I was elected National Deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as National Deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Mikola Sivuliski also wrote a statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine on 18 April.” Once again, I apologize for taking up your time with some of the same jobs, but obviously both the audience and the television audience need to hear their representatives, who they voted for, their statements. Ivan Sidelnik writes. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. As a result of the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected National Deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as National Deputy of Ukraine is to be suspended in accordance with article 81, part 6, of the Constitution of Ukraine.” April 19th, a statement was written. On April 18, he wrote a statement by Alexander Skibinetsky. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. As a result of the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” And Eugenius Soslov wrote a statement of this content and also 18 numbers. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block "The Yulia Timoshenko Block", which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine." Valeriy Suškevitch also wrote a statement and, I think, the same meaning. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko", by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine." April 18th. In general, as in other political subjects of the electoral process, Timoshenko was. One thing at a time, there was one list. Jaroslav Fedorchuk writes. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block "The Yulia Timoshenko Block", which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine." On April 17, Jaroslav Fedorchuk signed the application himself. And Eugene Chago wrote 18 of these statements. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the "Blank of Yulia Timoshenko", which I have been elected by the People’s Deputy on the list, my authority as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be suspended in accordance with the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Victor Schwetz writes as follows: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s terms of reference, I will declare my withdrawal from the Deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” which I was elected a national deputy by the list, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” [[“After the lists” is written here]] Sergey Shevchuk also wrote a statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected a national deputy, my authority as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” In doing so, he also confirmed his signature because there were doubts. Zoya Shishkina's statement. May I have your attention, please? “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected a national deputy, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” I want to point out that there's a very neatly written statement. However, on April 17, Andrew Schlell wrote the application. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine V’s terms of reference, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloke of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” He's writing a statement to Dmitri Schlemko. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” On April 18, a statement was written. On April 18, a statement was made by Vladimir Yavorowski. And his signature. I've seen him on various documents -- that's exactly his signature. Statement: “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” A finalized list of “Our Ukraine, ” and it is clear that he was present at the meeting when the faction manager announced such wishes of deputies, Oleg Crnvolenko, Alexander Crnvolenko. The statement reads: “In support of the Presidential Decree “On the Term of Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, 2007, it is impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call.” And his signature, which is certified at the Supreme Council Secretariat. I forgot because their faction wrote a slightly different meaning. I would like to remind you once again that the announced statements of those deputies who were precisely at the meeting of the Supreme Council and whose presence is confirmed by the registration. Others will work with them, talk with them, wonder whether they were or were not, or were they writing themselves? As some have not written, or have written for them, there are also, unfortunately, incidents. That is why I have fulfilled my obligations under the Rules. I also apologize for the uniformity of this information. This is 51 applications, yes, 51 applications. Once again, I remind those who have read it, you can take your employment books away from today, and, on your own, the cabinets and everything else are being released, because the prescribed procedure in the Rules, which, both in law and in the Constitution, allows other representatives of these electoral lists, or the subjects of the electoral campaign that took place in 2006, to occupy the seats that their colleagues have freed. Can I ask you a question? Well, sign up for the question, please. Chernobyl, questions. Taras Vjačeslavovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u22	Alexander Alexanderovich, first question: Is there a statement from Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko? Second, despite the beautiful, beautiful collection of their workbooks, do they sign a bypass letter, or do they hand over their belongings, including laptops? In addition to some figures, they were mass removed from the Supreme Council. And thirdly, what is the relationship with the Central Electoral Commission regarding the renewal of the lists, such as our Ukraine, the renewal of the MP and the introduction? Because there is a direct norm of the Constitution and the reference of Andrew Magrey, who, by the way, has to remind himself that there is a Supreme Court decision on him, that he violated the oath of a judge, the oath of a member of the Central Electoral Commission back in 2004. So his references to the law are very speculative, they look rather not beautiful, but there's a direct norm of the Constitution. So these are three questions. First, is Julia Timoshenko on the list? The other one. Whether a bypass letter and the giving up of property are taking place. And the third is after the re-enactment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u23	I answered the third question and the second question. Everyone takes the workbooks that they take. 14 have been taken away for the day. Their offices are accepted, things according to the procedure that exists in the Office of Affairs. In Julia Timoshenko, as everyone on the computer has reported that she has filed an application for an exit from the Yulia Timoshenko faction. But she was not present at the Parliamentary meeting. So I can't say that she was the one who wrote the message that was delivered back then. I have no doubt that she will write or write or testify to the matter. When this is confirmed, I will definitely read this statement. It's not some kind of discrediting of her, as you can see, but no one doubts that she wrote the application deliberately. Please, Shentz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u24	Please give the floor to the National MP, Samuelka Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u25	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u26	I thank my colleague very much. Alexander Alexandrovich, I want to ask you a question. It's probably a question of meditation for all of us, for all of us who listen to us today. I can't imagine they were writing statements about the exit of the BUIT faction. How do they plan to go to the elections? That is, at all, it is necessary to make a decision at the convention so that BUT does not exist as such. I can't imagine a party that promised so much, and that's how the heart beat, and so that heart promised so much, and today they were disappointed in this political party, and they all wrote statements. First of all, they're extras and not extras, but they walk by all the factions, so I'm addressing all of us, can I trust a political party that doesn't trust itself?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u27	Obviously this is not a question for me, but a different heart beats in various ways, so to speak, and I think the MPs wrote themselves, they thought about what they wrote, and it's their right under the Constitution. And my duty to read, the truth in the Constitution, when we wrote these standards, no one thought that such references would have to be read, but nevertheless. Lapin, please. Vladimir Yuliyovich, please. Infantry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u28	When I listened carefully to the statements, I thought of additional grounds for the dissolution of Parliament, and what was the main reason? What is the basic reason? Did none of those who wrote that statement raise that question? That's the first one. And the second. Would that not be the basis for the court’s re-establishment of deputies, perhaps in this way? And the third. The CEC today responded to the first statements that went there, because it generally claimed the MP's approval, or the MP's approval to gain status, the CEC developed the form of the statement. Here's a statement one faction wrote on one side that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u29	Vladimir Yuliyovich, I want to tell you so. For what reason, you know her well. The basic reason is to want to fight for power and break the Constitution, which we've talked about many times before, and you understand that very well. This is an attempt to regain the authority lost in the 2006 elections. It's not in a way that's typical of civilized countries, because it's done in elections, really, but not when minorities want to come to power more quickly, but because it's a questionable desire, I would say. If you're going to be the judge, we'll eat, we'll see, I won't rule it out. Did the C.V.C.K. Answer? Not at the moment, because the CEVC is being held in a castle by one institution and CVC representatives who depend on this institution, I don't think they're going to a meeting, they can't start it. But this will not go on indefinitely. And I understand the subtext in your question. If we work in compliance with the Constitution, the Rules and create conditions for the rights of deputies to be implemented in this way, then other institutions of power must do the same. And then we'll know that there's no one in the C.V.C.C. to replace specific MPs. Then the President's powers really do arise, although they are not clearly prescribed, because there is no law like that, but there are 77 articles of the Constitution, there are other norms that give him, let's say, the reasons that we've testified to in the statement. If these conditions are created, then please relax, do not relax, and suspend Parliament’s mandate for the time being. I would like to draw the attention of both readers, and you, in the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine” will be published for days, in my opinion, a very correct article by doctor of legal science Alexi Yushtík, a third vocation MP who writes about what the termination of powers is and so on. And he really knows what it is, because he worked seriously on the text of the Constitution. And Stepan Bulba asks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u30	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party. If they didn't appreciate these statements, there's a legal basis for writing them, there's an opportunity to look at them from that point of view, but we're witnessing some political representatives trying to paralyze Parliament's work. And what worries me is that society, the state has not made a countermeasure against these attempts, and they can be repeated in Parliament of any kind that would not happen: fair, democratic, recognized by the world. And over this, I think we need to think about it and make these kind of contradictions, because it's a very dangerous precedent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u31	Stepan Stepanovich, it is not the duty of society to produce such contradictions — it is the responsibility of Parliament and the institutions of power. The fact that the election is an adventure, I've told you not once, and you know it. Imagine: An early election has been held, and some 150 people see that this is not the way the votes are broken, that they do not make their vows, and that they do not gain parliamentary authority, and that Parliament cannot be authorized. And this is an endless election with all the results that are anticipated in the elections, because the discussions are again about issues, about sovereignty, about NATO, about other things that are tearing Ukraine apart. We are “getting” to the point that there will be no choice but to choose several parliaments in Ukraine, because we may lose the state. But they play with fire specific politicians today who consider themselves patriots. I would like them and the citizens to listen to this danger as well and to think about how to trust and what to do with those or other authorities. Chief Sergei Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u32	Alexander Alexandrovich, I'd like to make a statement on the legal content of the applications, if I may, for a few minutes. Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues, I'll tell you frankly that maybe it's a good thing that these people wrote these statements because they're illiterate both from a philosophical point of view and a legal point of view. I'm surprised Yavorowski, he doesn't probably understand Ukrainian, he doesn't know that a natural person can't give reasons, he can objectively appear in a normative text in the Constitution. And legally, I'm surprised that this was written by lawyers, because the 19th article of the Constitution says that the President of Ukraine, any official, acts exclusively on the basis of the Constitution. Well, if 50 BUT deputies are in Pavlov's psychiatric hospital in Chamber 6 and say, "I-Napoleon," then they're a duplicate of the Constitution, they give the President reasons and everything else I can't appreciate. So maybe when they dictated, maybe they wrote, and those mistakes you say there are no dots, there's no harmony, maybe Mom dictated, or the teacher dictated, and the kids wrote, they were worried. You're right, Alexander Alexander, they were worried because at all costs it would take an election to establish the dictatorial Constitution in a referendum and then put a dot on everything and all of the questions you were talking about, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich. This is the main goal and it's not here, it's designed there to achieve this strategic goal. Therefore, we should really do everything possible to ensure that, on legal grounds alone, Ukraine's integrity is preserved and there are no two Ukraines, there are no two parliaments. This is our sacred duty, for the people sit here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u33	Thank you. Well, I'll just say one question. Maybe they meant morals, not legal ones, I don't know. Therefore each one wrote, and among them not only the scribes, but also the other specialists. Please, Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I, like you, respect the demands of the deputies to step out of the faction, thus not to be a member of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, but as Vice-Chairman of the Rules Committee, I ask you to take this matter very seriously. First. The worker must be given a check-in to sign and stamp the workbook. And second moment. In accordance with article 90 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly states that the mandate of the Supreme Council of Ukraine ceases only on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council, I am confident that if the work of the CWC is to be blocked today and again by the secretariat of the President, we must take an oath at this rostrum from those who are to come here and ensure the work of Parliament. We can't play the country's fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u35	Thank you, Vassil Alexiyovich, I only answer. Of course, the order of publishing work books will be ensured. I don't doubt that. We've got proper assignments, and we've got a professional machine, you know that. Yesterday, I met about a dozen national deputies from “Our Ukraine” who insisted on publishing work books. I confirmed once again that there are no objections and they will receive them. By the time they were there, twelve books had been published. Today it's 14 o'clock. As you can see, the movement has gone. So everything in this respect is secure. Paul Mikolaiovich Sulkowski, please. Paul Gnatovich, excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u36	Nothing, thank you. Well, practically, Alexander Aleksandrovitch, I'm practically what I'm going to say, the predecessors -- my colleagues have spoken. But I would like to take this opportunity to confirm. Yesterday, I received a phone call from three parts of the BUT faction and our Ukraine -- the candidates for the deputies on their factions' lists. And they asked us to hand over to you today, as the Head of the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian National Deputies, to take us seriously and to take us under control, to enforce the laws and the Constitution of the CWC. They look forward to coming to Parliament on the list of the BUT factions and our Ukraine. So let us, Alexandre Alexandrovich, seriously today think about how to take control of this structure from Parliament and allow the members of the electoral commission to work. And then Parliament will work fully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u37	Paul Gnatovic, the Central Electoral Commission, is an executive body with special status and he's uncontrollable to the Supreme Council, he's just passing through, he's sworn in at the Supreme Council meeting, he's members of the Central Electoral Commission, so we won't control it. But every person, every citizen, including any candidate in Parliament, has the right to appeal to the court for failure to perform the duties of his Central Electoral Commission. I think it's something people can use, but we don't tell them. Here's another thing. It's been said here several times that if the work of an organ that determines the fate of the state is artificially blocked on the one hand today, it's obvious that we don't have to rush, allowing them to do all that is required by law to work to keep us calm. We took a step, created conditions for opposition. It's coming out of Parliament. There's nothing to replace them. There are no 300 deputies. So please, there will be an early election. But Basil Alexiyovich was right here. Parliament is working in a variety of ways until the new MPs have been appointed. Yes, the question is now exhausted. It's all over for today. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks. [[on time-limits and execution conditions for projects]] From this point of view, Minister of Education and Science Nikolainko Stanislav Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u38	Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technology Parks has been developed by our Ministry to carry out the Government's mandate of October 4, 2006. The draft law is being proposed with a view to resolving the issues of time-limits and conditions for implementing technology park projects, as well as clearly defining mechanisms for their implementation. I mean, there are eight tech parks in Ukraine today. Eight employees have been registered, three more have been registered, 55 have been completed. In general, some people are skeptical of these forms, for skeptics, and I'm going to say that all of these innovative projects have been implemented over the last five years for 8.4 billion dollars, of which almost one and a half billion dollars have been sent to innovative products for export. And if you think about how much we supported the technology parks and how much technology we got from the budget, it's 175 million more into the budget than we supported the technology parks. So given the practices of our technology parks, we anticipate improving and implementing mechanisms in this law of state registration of technology parks and technology park projects, approving the priority directions of technology parks to work strictly in line with what the state needs, re-registering previously registered parks, canceling the state registration of projects if they do not meet the conditions for their implementation. We describe the order in which committees operate from the organization of technology parks and other structures. I would like to say that today we have the Special Innovation Act, it works, but we suggest that it be improved in connection with the practice that has been developed recently. The implementation of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime of Technoparks does not provide for material and other costs from the State budget. All the incentives that are needed are already laid down in the State Budget Act, and this is all happening within the framework of the State Budget. The adoption of this law will contribute to the development of scientific and technological innovation in Ukraine, will contribute to the transition, distance from raw agrarian development to high-tech development, to the production of high-tech products and services, and will contribute to the creation of new jobs. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, a respected national MP, suggests that the government support the draft law in the first reading. And with the comments and suggestions taken into account, we'll work it out with the profile committees if they do. And I think it will work for the benefit of Ukraine's economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u39	Thank you, Stanislav Mikolaiovich. What are some questions for the minister? There are little questions, I see. Please sign up for them. Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u40	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, we are well aware of the efforts you are making regarding the construction in our nation of information society, and as part of this great work and the construction of the technology parks that we are talking about today. Say, please, the question is, are those eight tech parks that are already running, they have some experience, you've probably generalized this experience, and by going to this law, not without generalization of the experience, is that all done? So you could call two or three such positions fundamental that you gave this experience, let's say, the Kiev Politec. and other institutes and scientific institutions, where are such parks already in place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u41	Dear Nicholas Illihu, thank you for asking. What I'd like to say today is that this is a new norm, although there are more than 500 tech parks in the world, even more than a thousand, but we think that it works effectively today, best of all, it's a technology park called Patton's Powerhouse, the Semiconductors' Institute, a technology park, and the Monocrystals' Institute. Well, today the new form of the organizational “scientific park” is being organized and presented, and innovative projects are starting to be made there -- that's right, you said, the Kiev polytechnics. In addition, we have a lot of other universities involved in individual technology projects, such as the University of Food Technology and others. What is produced today in technology parks and uses international demand, competitive, and highly cost-effective, and technological. You could call it welding equipment, it's compressor technology, it's today's international standards, it's manufacturing, let's say, radio tools.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u42	Let me finish. One minute to bet. Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u43	And others. So this experience is, we're taking into account the experience of these very technology parks and we're proposing to expand these narrow spaces that exist today in the activities of the technology parks: through registration, through the direction of their activities and the organization of their work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u44	Vitaly Shibko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u45	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Stanislav Mikolaiovich, well, it feels like the Ministry is taking this issue seriously. You see, you have a powerful group that, besides education, deals with the problems of science, its application, and so forth. But I would like to draw your attention to what the authorities wrote today when they commented on this bill. You can see that it tells us that articles four, five have the ability to duplicate, or treatise, different moments. For example, when it comes to article four, who can apply for registration: on the one hand, current legislation indicates that the initiator of such inclusion will be all the subjects of the legislative initiative, and here today it is proposed that only after the introduction of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will make changes to the draft law. But there are also possibilities for the President and so forth. How Can I Get Out of This Colosseum? Maybe we should not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u46	Dear Vitalia Jakovic, the proposed law that you have introduces a new edition of article four: “State registration of the technology park and the introduction of a special regime of innovation”. And the basis for the introduction of a special innovation regime is its state registration by the central authority of the executive authority, the order is signed, the testimony is given, and the decision to introduce the regime is made by the Supreme Council itself, and the government's submission. So this mechanism is clearly defined here. As for the projects, according to this law, the project is being examined by the Academy of Sciences, then a special state expertise is being made and the state registration is already being conducted by the central executive body – the Ministry of Education and Science. Here's what's going on. There's a testimonial, there's a testimonial. This order, it's clearly laid out and it's already in place, we've written it out as an existing practice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u47	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u48	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Stanislav Mikolaiovich, you were talking about skeptics. Well, I'm one of those skeptics, but not about the efficiency of technology parks, but about the need to change the administration mechanism, including the innovation structures of other types. Because, you know, there's always suspicion that the government is trying to steer, that when it's trying to re-register the state registration, it's suspicious, and what's behind it, actually. So I have this question: what is the need for this state re-registration that has happened to such an operation? What will be the cost of this registration? And who will pay for such a state registration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u49	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, first of all, you asked the right question. What I'm saying is that the committee for the organization of the technology parks, led by Michael Azarov, I'm the deputy, they're part of: Science Academy, leading scientists, practitioners, including national MPs. It's been working, and there's been a very recent session, and four innovative projects have been approved. Why does the state take on the function of identifying innovation, not innovation? But because the state of the budget provides both benefits and funding. And if the state provides funding, it has the power to ask: Who does it provide, what projects? And what I'm saying is, four projects that were considered last week are related, let's say, to the production of new kinds of turbines for the production of, say, chemicals. Then, for example, we discussed the new production of the TV family. Then agricultural techniques and others were carefully considered because they received them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u50	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u51	Thank you. Stanislave Mikolaiovich, I think there is no doubt that the technology parks have been the only, since 1999, the only mechanism for implementing innovation policy. It really is. And if you don't think, you don't share my opinion that the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2005 when Julia Volodymyrna practically canceled the preferences of a special innovation regime, they were the ones that led to the fact that a number of tech parks had stopped their activities. And if we're going to talk about an innovative model for the development of society, we have to give these advantages, because it's the law that will offer us these ways for the innovative development of our nation. Never again, God forbid, this tragic experience that Julia Volodymyrna has offered to our society by setting up a cross.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u52	Dear Catherine, I agree with you. At a government meeting, I raised the issue of considering innovative, innovative, investment activities of the government. And in my proposed draft decision, supported by the Academy of Sciences, Patton and academic Zgurovsky were present, we proposed not to cancel the operation of the park and the Innovation Development Act. And unfortunately, that's when both the Minister of Economics and the Prime Minister took a strong stand against and did not pass that decision. So in the final positions of this law, which we're talking about, we're predicting that everything that was before 2005 is going on for 10 months. They will be able to reregister, update their projects, and continue their work under new conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u53	Stanislaw Mikolaiovich, thank you so much for the good report convincingly. The word has the deputy head of the committee of profile, Alexy Vitaliovich Plotnikov. To be exact, a doctor of economic sciences, so that there is no doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u54	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Economic Policy discussed at its meeting on June 7th the draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the Special Regime for Innovative Activities of Technological Parks on the clarification of terms and conditions of implementation of projects. It has been pointed out that the project envisages a change in the mechanism for the state registration of technology parks and technology projects, on the basis that the introduction of a special innovation regime for each park is based on its national registration by the central authority of the scientific executive. As an innovation structure in order to be determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. There are also pre-registrations of previously registered innovation and investment projects, cancellation of state registration of projects in case of non-compliance with the conditions for implementation, functioning of committees with the organization of technology parks and innovation structures of other types, and so on. Some wishes were expressed at the committee meeting, but at the same time, the committee decided on the results of the first reading, and the bill could be taken as a basis. So I urge you to support this kind of committee decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u55	There are no objections or questions to him, are there? No, please, sit down. Who wants to make a statement about the content of this law, Catherine Semenovna Samojlik? And God told you to speak, because this is your committee and Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u56	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Dear colleagues! The proposed bill to amend the Ukrainian Law on a special regime for the innovation of technology parks, as has already been said, clarifies this concept and the position of the law in force, which can be treated in a mixed manner and may be treated, for example, on the same occasion. In addition, procedural issues regarding the registration of technology parks and the consideration and approval of innovative technology park projects are being detailed. According to the law in force, which we are already discussing, the basis for issuing a certificate of registration of a technology park is its inclusion in the preamble to the law. That is, the technology listed in the preamble under the law should be registered with the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, and it should be given an appropriate registration certificate. At the same time, according to the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which was adopted in 2006, the issuing of a witness may take place after a special procedure, which is practically proposed for inclusion in the bill. In fact, I want to make observations that are being reviewed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on technology parks. By the way, all the tech park bills were tested in the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine. And the committee asks the Economic Policy Committee to take this into account when working on the above documents. The second question. The committee believes that the measures taken to support state-owned technology park projects in comparison with previous laws are significantly underestimated. And so in order for them to function effectively, the system for registering technology parks should be simple and transparent. In this regard, it must be out of the question, as stipulated by the law in force, that an increase in the responsibility of the Ministry of Science and Education of Ukraine as the only state authority to decide on the registration of a technology project. Dear colleagues from the profile committee, the committee believes that the commission should have supervisory control functions over the activities of the technology parks, perform advisory functions and not be responsible for the decision-making process. And we also have the National Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Education and Science of Ukraine, which practically have to do these functions. And so we'd like to take our comments into account, especially that this is a matter for our committee, not for the Committee on Economic Policy, it happened to come to your committee, a colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u57	Please, Michaela Ilchi and Shibko, and Mother, these are the last recordings, I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u58	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. By the way, before you say a few words about tech parks, Alexandre Alexandrovich, I'm being called from Kirovograd and they're saying that when you read the statements, the distortion goes, or they turn off the broadcasts, you don't have to do that. I'm addressing everyone who doesn't need to interfere with the activities of the Supreme Council so that people know the truth about what's going on in the hall and who writes what statements and what these statements are about. But I am essentially. As far as technology is concerned, it's this new technology, this new model of innovation for Ukrainian society, and it's not always clear what it is. I'll take an example, we've been talking for quite a long time, for many years, about making scientific and technical progress in production. Well, how did this happen, we know in practice, and we didn't rarely go into such a "talk room," and we did very good things in introducing scientific discoveries into production, and we put it pretty slippery when there were no consequences. So we need to move on to such a well - thought - out state policy as to the introduction of scientific discoveries and scientific developments into life. In order not to have just one conversation, it is certainly necessary to set up a state-owned register here and to ensure that there is a special regime for the operation of technology parks in order to be posted, pre-described, and what will be the impact on the introduction of scientific technologies in manufacturing, both in terms of increasing productivity and creating new jobs and in order for our products to be competitive around the world. And I would also point out that we have a Harkown Physico-Technical Institute, where there are new accelerators, there are both Hurricane-2 and Hurricane-3 in terms of thermonuclear synthesis, and that's the creation of tweed that's relevant to our state, and in general this institution gave 20 percent of the scientific output of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Therefore, the counterfeits that are in this institution also need to be introduced. It certainly means avoiding abuses that can take place when we register with the Ministry of Education. Therefore, the socialists support the first reading and will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u59	Vitaly Shibko from the spot, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u60	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Vitaly Shibko, Socialist faction. Well, I want to draw the attention of my colleagues and our radio audiences that we're looking at a non-governmental issue today. It's about investment, it's about how much science and production in Ukraine today are able to perceive the innovations that exist in the world today and that are also being developed in Ukraine. And it's not just about someone playing science today, or someone wants to use science for their own personal needs, but it's about the fact that it's through the development of this form that science and production is possible to create an effective social sphere that will be used for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. I want to say that, by name today, the Ministry is paying a lot of attention to this and, in fact, this is unlike what was once, when in a wave of populism in the government of Yulia Timoshenko simply admitted that this is an ineffective form or form that today, it is used only to make someone rich by using the possibilities of such activity separately. I mean, the ministry came up with this question from the state's standpoint, given that it's going to work, this theme, for the whole of society. And I want to confirm once again that the Socialist faction will support these changes. But when I asked the Minister of Education and Science, there wasn't a time-consuming conclusion to my opinion, I'd like to emphasize once again that if we're making these changes, yes, and that's really true, then we should be, moving on. Because we also have the Ukrainian law on the general principles of the creation and operation of special free economic zones. And if we bring these changes to the law that we're considering right now, then we have to make the changes to that law accordingly. So there's no duplication. To help us understand how this is about today who can create these technology parks, who can initiate them, and what the initiative of our authorities, including the legislative body, is. So I wanted us, if we went on with this subject, to recommend to the Ministry of Education that we look at this law that I just called, in order to make the appropriate changes that we were about to make to the activities of these types of special free economic zones by referring exactly to the bill that we are currently considering. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u61	Thank you. Hello, Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u62	Vitaly Majko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. I would like to say that we support this law with interesting proposals from the Ministry of Education. But at the same time, I would like to point one direction. We're looking very, very closely today at all the issues of raising Ukraine's economy through investment and innovation. And I can tell you that there is no whole program in the state. There's the Academy of Sciences, there's the Ministry of Industrial Policy, there's the Ministry of Education, and everyone has their own program, and it's somehow not consistent. Whatever the good achievements of the technology parks that we don't have, well, if we don't work out the painful points that our society has always seen as the introduction of science into industry, we won't solve these issues. And I think the final result, the evaluation of our work in the parks can only be industry and then the whole economy. So it seems to me that after this law we should definitely think about creating some kind of joint body that would look at an investment and innovation development programme. You'll see how Russia has now developed this serious program of development of the Russian science industry and how it's completely starting to work. And even if we look at the budget, we've increased funding today, for example, in a major direction like nanotechnology, but we've given so much that we can't buy even one line to start producing those achievements that we're putting into producing those achievements that are in science today. That's why there's no whole program. And it seems to me that after this law, we should offer and organize work together, a joint programme for innovation in industry, technology and science in Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u63	Thank you. Question completed. I ask you to prepare for the vote. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Special regime for the Innovation of Technology Parks for the clarification of terms and conditions of implementation of projects. Registration number 3387. Please vote. [[12:10:12]] For 252 Decision taken. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 40 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u64	A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences is being announced for consideration. [[on improving monitoring of compliance with the Codex environmental articles]] Gusarov Sergei Mikolaiovich, is it? We're waiting, please. Sergei Mikolaiovich Hussarov is the head of the committee's committee on law enforcement, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u65	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences aimed at improving monitoring of compliance with the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Protection of Animals against Cruel Conduct. In particular, the first section of the bill proposes to amend a number of articles of the Codex of Ukraine that establish responsibility for violations in the field of health care, the use of natural resources, the protection of history and culture, and to change the subordination of specific categories of administrative offences in the field. After reviewing the draft law, the committee notes that the vast majority of proposed changes are made without compliance with the rules of standard design, violate the design of the articles, disagree with the general context, and are unacceptable in overloading existing standards. It should also be noted that the drafters propose to amend article 90 of the codex by August 12, 2003. At present, this article is being published by the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on hunting and hunting, protection, use and reproduction of the animal world since first July 2003. The chief scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the bill requires substantial conceptual, meaningful and technical legal development, and suggests that the draft law be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development as a result of the first reading. The bill has also been considered by the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. According to the committee, most of the proposed changes cannot be supported. At the same time, some proposals merit attention, such as the proposals to article 153 of the Code on the Strengthening of Liability for Offences in the Destruction of Green Plantations in Human Settlements; article 221 of the Code, which empowers courts to deal with cases of administrative offences envisaged for failure to provide environmental information, etc. In view of what has been said, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that, as a result of its first reading, the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences for Reprocessing should be reverted. I also communicated with the drafters. They agree, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u66	You mean with the initiators, not with the authors. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u67	Yeah, yeah, with the initiators.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u68	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. Well, actually, the offer was one. And there is hardly anyone who has read carefully the documents that you have given about this project, and you can see that it needs to be worked out. And the committee was correctly defined here, which recommends that, if not rejected, this bill be finalized. I therefore propose a draft Decree to amend the draft Law to amend the Code of Laws on Administrative Offences, to improve the monitoring of compliance with the environmental articles of the Code. Please, there's a vote. [[12:46:00]] For-191 Someone does want him to work, you see, this document, right? I beg you, who's in charge of voting? [[12:46:26]] For 221 Then the project is rejected. Please, you didn't want to work on it. As one wise man said: “For seven years the poppy did not give birth and there was no famine.” So we hope that people are being treated and those who are doing fishing and hunting are right in the rules that work today. And they're not going to do what the initiators of this bill are going to do, you see, they want no one to do it. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws is about the State’s Foreign Service. Ukrainian National Deputy Baranowski Alexander Petrovich will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u69	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Socialist Party, Alexander Baranowski. For your consideration, Your Honorary Colleagues, passed Bill 3,583 on making some changes to Ukraine's laws. The current mechanism for the appointment and payment of State social security guarantees, such as state aid to low-income citizens, social assistance to families with children, housing subsidies are based on the principle of trust in citizens’ information, income, and material status. All kinds of state social assistance are assigned to the sole technology, according to one statement that it allows for the minimization of the number of institutions and organizations to be consulted with a view to obtaining appropriate assistance for the purpose of providing the specified social benefits. The system of state social and insurance payments in case of unemployment is constantly improving. The procedure for making payments, including by reducing the number of documents required for their appointment, is constantly being optimized. Yes, in order to ensure greater transparency and to increase the targeting of housing subsidies to the population, the provision of subsidies to compensate for the cost of housing services, the acquisition of cremated gas, solid and liquid spent fuel. In particular, the number of documents given to citizens to grant grants has been reduced. To date, the applicant adds only information on the income of all registered persons and information on housing and utilities. It is also simplified to provide one - time support for the birth of a child and care for the child until he reaches the age of three in part of the decline in the amount of help needed to provide the given types of assistance. At the same time, labour and social protection bodies, as chief budget managers of social resources, should monitor their targeted uses, which in turn requires comprehensive measures to verify the reliability of information declared by citizens in the formulation and delivery of state social assistance. At the same time, the Office of the Social Protection System cooperates with the structural units of the executive branch, the Pension Fund, the State Tax Administration, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, and so forth on the list of information declared by the person in the appeal for public social and insurance payments. At present, however, there is no mechanism for communicating information about recipients of various types of social assistance, benefits, and recipients of unemployment insurance payments that are temporarily outside Ukraine. Such information is available today only through the information system of the State Border Service. Communicating on a permanent basis between the authorities of Minpraci, the State Employment Service and the State Border Service will ensure effective control over the implementation of social protection programmes, proper resistance to abuse in the system of recipients of public, social and insurance payments. And also to save adequate funds from the State budget of Ukraine and the State-wide State, Social Insurance Fund in the event of unemployment. The corresponding budget economy will also, in some ways, reflect the effectiveness of managing the assignment process and providing social assistance, which is an important indicator of the overall effectiveness of the State social assistance system. Taking into account the above-mentioned and legislative arrangements for the exchange of information between the labour system and the social protection of the population and the State of the border services, it is necessary to amend existing legislation. The draft law amending certain laws of Ukraine provides for a mechanism for the implementation of this provision, including amendments to the laws of Ukraine entitled “On the Ukrainian State Border Service”, “On Information”, with the aim of regulating the exchange of information between the State Border Service and the authorities of Minsk. Including, banks of data on persons who crossed the state border of Ukraine or were outside the country when they received state social assistance and insurance payments. The adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws aims at creating a legislative framework for the provision of information by the State of Labour and the State Employment Service to ensure effective control over the implementation of social protection programmes, the proper resistance to abuse in the system of recipients of public, social and insurance payments. Saving the corresponding funds of Ukraine’s State budget and Ukraine’s mandatory state social insurance fund in case of unemployment, as well as enhancing the effectiveness of investigations into relevant insurance cases. The adoption of the bill would allow for prejudice in cases of misuse of budgetary resources. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u70	The question is to Alexander Petrovich? None. Have a seat, please. Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u71	National MP Bondarchuk is head of the Committee for Social Policy and Labour. Dear colleagues, the committee reviewed the bill at its meeting and decided to support it and recommend to the Supreme Council that the bill be adopted as a basis. Making the proposed changes to a number of applicable laws is one purpose. To strengthen control over the allocation and payment of state social benefits, housing subsidies and material assistance in case of unemployment by identifying sources of additional unaccounted, unaccounted for incomes, and to regulate the mechanism for verifying information related to the granting of the right to make such payments. According to the committee, the project deserves support because the current mechanism for the appointment and payment of state social security guarantees is based solely on the principle of trust in citizens’ information about their income and material status. However, as practice has shown, there are many abuses in this area that not only result in financial losses but also instill in citizens negative traits such as attempts to circumvent the law, to gain non-working incomes. Of course, there is some control of the socialist organs in this system. When applying for public social and insurance payments, the information provided to citizens is verified and clarified. However, there is no mechanism for systematic communication about recipients of social assistance who are temporarily outside Ukraine. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, expressing a number of very well-founded observations, believes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading. The Ministry of Labour, the State Border Services, the Minpraci State Employment Center, support the bill. Its implementation will not require additional budgetary allocations. Only the Committee on Safety and Defence believes it is necessary to return the draft to the work, referring to the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. The Committee on Social Policy and Labour, as the chief in its consideration of the bill, considers the comments made by colleagues from the Committee on Safety and Defence to be such that they can be taken into account in the process of preparing the document for second reading. Because they're not conceptually different, but they're referring to the findings of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration, which thinks it's quite possible to adopt a bill on the basis of taking into account the observations and additions that have been made in the process of preparing for the second reading. In view of the above, the committee requests that the bill be supported and accepted as a basis. I remind you that the bill has been tabled by the people's deputies of Baranovsky, Suhim, Cibenk, Radziewskai, Samofal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u72	Thank you. No questions to John Mikolaiovich? What will be your thoughts, your reasoning on this project? We've got him. Jaroslav Suhi, please have the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u73	Dear colleagues, the rapporteur for this bill, by virtue of the Rules, did not say anything about certain circumstances that simply led us to accept it. The thing is, right now, you know very well about this, the growth in social pay in the total population's monetary income is more of a wage increase, so we're turning into a society that's eating itself, not a wage that's growing in the pitiful weight of monetary income, but a social pay. And I think you, the Ukrainian national MPs, especially the majors of previous calls, have received such complaints on numerous occasions, or people complaining that a marketer or someone else on the “mersedes” is coming to receive this social assistance as if they were unemployed. Moreover, a large part of the population has this monetary income and not a bad monetary income. And if he's transferring this money into dollars or euros to his home, we still have to pay for it, and that's pretty clear. Not enough, I'm not going to say that it's a loss to the state, but it's at least unfair and does not contribute to the construction or construction of the civil society that we have declared. And one more thing. You and I understand very well, there is certainly a need for joint action, without the joint action of the various branches of government, we will not bring order here. By the way, it's not only about the temporary job loss fund, it's about combating unemployment, it's about other funds, because we also need to put order in other social insurance funds. I'd like to finally say this. It's quite clear that the Ministry of Economics is talking about the following: going abroad with a view to earning a salary or further establishing a profit. Let us not be misled. If a person had raised about $100 or $300 for a ticket to Spain, well, that's the case. But if he's not home for a year and two and three, and translations are being reported, then what we need to talk to you about is whether he's unemployed or he's at work and the state budget shouldn't be responsible for what's actually going on. What's more, we now have in our hands the Cabinet of Ministers for the experiment. And this is the measure of both our bill, and the order is temporary to support the proposal of the Ministry and the Administration of the State Border Service to conduct such an experiment with the introduction of interdisciplinary information regarding persons who, during the period of receiving state social insurance payments, crossed the state border or stayed outside the country for a long time. So I think we have every reason to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u74	I see. Still desiring to make a statement? The Bulba Stepanovich will speak from place. But better yet, Stepan Stepanovich, you'll be more visible here, come here. It'll sound more convincing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u75	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I think this bill and the law can be adopted in a mixed way in society. Moreover, I can say that individual political forces from the so-called opposition, which are fixed by flags in the Supreme Council, can use the individual positions of this law for various speculations. At the same time, we need to be aware that those small costs, costs, insufficient funds that are allocated from the State budget for social protection of the population groups that need it should be used effectively. And so far, legislation has allowed and enabled us to abuse these funds. I am convinced that the person who receives a minimum pension or a minimum, the minimum social cost for treatment, for other needs, will understand our decision. Because, after all, there's abuse, they're all about what a healthy person means physically and so on, people who are able to work within Ukraine, but they're leaving, of course, not from a good life, going beyond Ukraine and at the same time using government funds to support themselves. And these costs can be used and they need to be used primarily for those who need them. And so I think we need to adopt this bill, take into account all the comments, they're really important comments. And with him working for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u76	Thank you. The sand, Ivan Vasilovich, please on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u77	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues, I propose to adopt this bill on a two-pronged basis. First of all, it's just that there's some social justice for people who have the opportunity to get money, go 2-3 years, and get paid there, abroad, at the same time someone at the local level on their passports, their documents also get eyes, help. This is one side. The other side is that as soon as we adopt this law, it will provide additional grounds for foreign troops to gather information and to generalize it about all those who are abroad. This, on the other hand, will help both the border guards and the Central Electoral Commission to have these lists, because there's a speculation in the room that it's impossible to create such lists and that's what Mrs. Vice President of the C.E.C.K. Usenko said that it's impossible to collect this information. I think if we accept this bill, we're going to solve two problems right now. Thank you. I propose a vote on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u78	Okay. Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u79	Dear colleagues. Let us ask ourselves a question, and who is to blame for the fact that Ukrainian citizens today are forced to leave their families and go abroad to hire, demeaning themselves, who is to blame? Still, it's probably the state's fault. And today we will still be punishing those people in this way for having to be unfaithful. Let's do this, let's first create conditions for people who don't have to go abroad, so that they have a decent reward for their work, so that they have jobs that millions of people have promised them on the field, and then we'll make order with social payments eventually. We have tax services, we have other law enforcement agencies that have to control those people if they're standing on the market, and they're also standing out of a good life there, teachers and scientists from the past, not from a good life are standing on the market, and we want them to have social benefits, and we want them to take those poor coins away from them so that tomorrow the future will have nothing to speculate about the elections and show them how they care about the people. Let's think about what we're talking about. We've already raised questions about pregnant women. Do you know how this ended? Remember the disgrace that this initiative has brought us to an end. Let us consider carefully whether we should do so today. Shouldn't we start on the other side, first to create conditions so that people don't have to disbelieve abroad on those demeaning wages, and then we'll make peace in social pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u80	It's weak. Come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. A fast, socialist faction. Dear colleagues, it's a controversial norm that is predicted today. I want to fully support my colleague Anna Herman about what, in fact, the state should first worry about its citizens. She has to do everything she can to make sure that there are opportunities here to give them their jobs. It's on the one side. On the other hand, let's see why the border guards should be doing this. And in fact, if we're ever forbidding anything, aren't we creating additional conditions for corruption? I mean, of course, there will be people to help. So they're going to do everything for a certain reward to hide the data of where and who is today abroad. This is always the way it works when we create these extra conditions. What I'm trying to say is, the border services can't do this, they can't just do what they miss, they can't miss. And we have certain authorized bodies to do so, and this is what article 19 of this bill says. So this service, it has to take information from the border guards, because it's there, invite them, give them the right, if, for today, there really is no such right, and let her coordinate, let her grieve, let her make generalizations in order to allow it to cooperate. And in general, I want to point out that all the time, if we control this, it's really going to happen that the contradiction doesn't lead to any such effective conclusion or to an effective outcome. So I think we need to think about how to really regulate this mechanism. It's just a ban, as it's being suggested today, we probably won't be able to do anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u82	Thank you. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u83	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, sometimes when we begin a discussion, we may not even know where it will turn us. That is to say that today we have begun to review the changes that we have brought together recently to the People's Deputies Elections Act and to express doubts about something else. As I understand it, the initiative is something else. There are two counterflows, on the one hand, to make the process of receiving social benefits, insurance contributions, as objective, transparent, and fair as possible. On the other hand, there are some concerns about the use of information that can be used, let's say, for non-proper functions. And so, dear colleagues, I still think that the initiative is timely. Moreover, in order to restore justice in society, we will need to support the process of granting appropriate social subsidies. And that's why standardizing technology, order and information for this process is an important component, and it's kind of shaping the ground for the future. So I'm convinced that the initiative is right, right at the right time, it needs to be supported. What is more, there is a first - reading support offer. With regard to any doubts, suggestions, improvements, you and I have a process of preparing a document for the second reading. Thus, the Communist faction will vote in favour of this document in the first reading, viewing it as just, right, and timely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u84	I did not expect so much to participate in the debate of MPs. Paul Gnatovic will certainly be out of line. And then Baranowski with the closing word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u85	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues, I didn't think to speak, but since this discussion has unfolded and so faithfully and rightly said our colleague Mrs. Anna Hermann, I fully support you. And that's why I decided to ask you to come out and support your offer. And you have rightly said that there are politicians who have lied and lied to this day by their political forces to the Ukrainian people, that they are fighting for a better future of his life. This proved in two and a half months what they were doing for Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Besides damage, nothing better. This applies to two opposition factions: BUTE and “Our Ukraine”. And many other politicians, unfortunately, that they have not yet found themselves in Parliament. And today they appear on channels and so on. And it's clear that they're every word, every letter, they're tracking down our actions in Parliament today. And if we say something wrong, they're using it wrong, and they're manipulating it in front of Ukraine and the Ukrainian people. Because they don't think -- they just want to hurt Ukraine, not bring benefits. And so this bill, if we get this straight, I think no national MP here, who's either speaking out or initiating a matter in Parliament, is just trying to bring good to his people and his Ukrainian wherever he is, where he is, where he is in the world. And that's why today the author, Mr. Baranowski, took it out. And when I came up, I explained it and so on. In fact, there is a question that needs to be resolved. But many points need to be discussed so that we really do not harm our Ukrainian, who is seeking a better destiny during this period. I am convinced that if there is stability in Ukraine, everyone will soon return to Ukraine. Because today, government is in operation and the Supreme Council, a coalition, is in operation. And if the people of Ukraine finally realize that these people, these politicians are fighting for a better future today, they will soon come. And that's why I'm introducing, Alexandre Alexandrovich, such a proposal that this bill is by no means allowed today, Mrs. Anna Hermann, I personally ask you. There's no need to reject it. I call for a vote in the first reading, and we are necessarily serious, more serious, we will not miss a moment to hurt our Ukrainian. On the other hand, we are working on the second reading, and I am convinced that it will benefit our Ukraine and our Ukrainians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u86	Thank you, Pavel Gnatovich. When you use the word “our Ukrainian”, it is clear that this is not a political subtext, but simply to Ukrainian citizens, is it? Because someone might think it's a political structure, that's the first. Secondly, I'd like to make it clear that we're not talking about any removal of subsidies or any reduction. This is about paying subsidies, helping people who need them. And not to pay for those who don't need it, which is the logic of the law, I understand it that way. And it would be a shame, if, for example, it was illegal to withdraw subsidies from someone, then of course there would be indignation. But no less so than when one person is either sick or unable to work anywhere, or if the family has received a minimum subsidy, the neighbor next to him who hides his income can do so receives a grant. Then it hurts even more the general order, that's to say. Baranovsky, final word, please. Come here, or you'll see how you talk. This is about the first reading of the project, yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u87	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. You've already helped me to some extent answer what I'm about to say, but I'd like you, dear colleagues, to make a second observation. I'm not going to call areas or areas where people work abroad, come home in a paradise or a village huge, build a restaurant, earn money, thank God, and get a grant. It's normal, isn't it? Now in Ukraine, you can find a good cook, a mechanic, a huge payoff, you can't find. It is no longer the time that was five years ago. Or on a bus bus, it takes 4-5 flights a day, say, to Poland and back to Lviv, there is a car with meat, and the second one is loaded in the territory of Lviv. And he's got a half-ton bus, and he's in a ton, and he's got good profits on it, and at the same time, he's getting the right subsidies, and so on. The other part of the population that needs to increase these subsidies, which really need it, they can't get them anymore, because our budget and the budget of the appropriate fund, it's said to be non-resinable and it can't be stretched. So those who don't pay up, those who don't pay up, are suffering because of the one who doesn't need it. And one more thing. The law does not provide for any further information, absolutely not. The law provides only that information can be exchanged at the legislative level with the public authorities. And if this information is needed by one ministry or fund from another, and it benefits society, they should do this exchange of information, this law only allows them to do it. And then it's all done by the appropriate authorities that work, the same Ministry of Social Policy or, let's say, the fund is appropriate and so on. That's why I'm addressing you, distinguished national deputies, to receive it in the first reading. And the comments you've given, we're going to take into account the second reading, and it's going to benefit our entire society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u88	We're done discussing this project. I ask you to prepare for the vote. The authors of the project and the committee offer to accept it on the first reading. And even Hanna Mikolayevna says that the first reading is acceptable. I'll bet you a vote. Please. [[13:16:59]] For 252 Thank you. For our second reading, we are proposing a draft Law on Introduction. For inclusion in the agenda and decision-making. Adam Ivanovich will be right out, because I need to go out for a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u89	Dear colleagues, the draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the application of distribution agreements, second reading, is a request to move to tomorrow because the Legal Authority has not yet been able to process the comparative table prepared by the Committee for the second reading. Is there no objection? With regard to the inclusion in the agenda and the adoption of the Bill No. 3364, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the status of deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the local councils on the deletion of provisions on an imperative mandate. The author of the initiative, Sergey Petrovich, also asks us to move on to the next plenary week. Please vote on this transfer proposal. Although, I'm sorry, let's not vote because it's not included in the agenda, I'm sorry. It's under review. I can't see Dry in my place of work, I can hear a voice, but it's not where he's speaking, where he's usually probably somewhere between girls. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases is under consideration. [[on the safety and quality of immunobiological medicinal products]] Project Mikoli Komara, registration number 3252. Put it in the agenda, please vote. [[13:19:15]] For 251 Decision taken. Please, Mikola Stepanovich Komar will report to the Demidek Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u90	Mikola Komar, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear colleagues! The current adoption of the legislative act is due to the fact that according to WHO, about three million people die each year for severe forms of infection caused by B-hip-type bacteria. In most countries where the vaccine has not been introduced, hip-infection prevention is the cause of most meningitis and pneumonia. Other rare forms of this disease include epiglottitis, osteomyelitis, septic arthritis, and septicemia. The risk group is children under 5 years of age. In connection with the dropper’s transmission mechanism, vaccination is the only and only reliable means of its prevention. The current WHO position on conjugated vaccines against “B” haemophiliac infection is that, given the proven safety and efficacy, conjugated hippie vaccines should be introduced into national planned immunization programmes for children in their countries. According to WHO experts who conducted the hip-infection assessment of children under 5 years of age, the annual hip-infection among children is 4-12 cases per 100,000 children of this age group, including 4-12 fatal cases. According to hip-infection calculations, 400 pneumonia cases per year, including 20 to 60 with a fatal outcome. Planned immunisation against hemophiliac type B infection will minimise the risk of illness among children of younger age. The purpose and purpose of the adoption of the act, to minimize the risk of infectious diseases for which there are specific prevention methods included in the vaccination calendar at the expense of Ukraine’s state budget and to generalize the safety and quality control system for medical immunobiological drugs. The supply of drugs is made at the expense of the National Budget of Ukraine, and a national body for drug control and the development of a regulatory framework for quality control of medicines should be identified. The implementation of the law does not require the allocation of additional financial resources and will be carried out on the basis of the allocations provided for each year in the National Budget of the Ministry of Health for the purchase of vaccines for immunoprophylactic measures. The implementation of the law will improve the epidemic situation in Ukraine by providing timely assistance to the population and by guaranteeing the use of high - quality medical immunobiological drugs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u91	Thank you. Are there any questions? There is, please, Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u92	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Mikola Stepanovich, please tell us that your bill proposes to transfer the authority to the so-called National Authority for the Control of Medical and Immunobiological Substances. What is it? It's another state structure that needs states, funding and so on. Why can't this be done in the order that is now. And the second. You have just stressed that the implementation of this bill does not require any additional expenditure from the state budget. Well, we understand ourselves, if it's an extra drug that needs to be put in, it's going to take extra money from the government budget. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u93	Thank you for asking, Reverend Valentin Grigorovich. First question. Still, we will someday follow the recommendations of the World Health Organization, which are being implemented by all, the vast majority of the world’s nations. And there, in these countries, is a special institution that controls the quality of vaccines and controls the order of vaccination. But as the author of the Law, I believe it is necessary. But I don't insist that if the honourable deputies decide that we can do this today, we can really do this to the Ministry of Health, to the relevant population immunization department -- we can do this today as a stage. And today we're looking at this draft law in the first reading, and I'm asking him to take it as a basis, and we're ready to take into account all the proposals that will come to second reading. As far as your second question of a new vaccine is concerned. It's not about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u94	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u95	It's about quality and control of their use.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u96	Creation. structure, does it need spending from the state budget?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u97	Structure is your first question that I said I'd like to take for granted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u98	Yes. Who else would like to ask? Sulkovsky is still hesitant. Okay. Okay. Have a seat, please. Yes, from the Health Committee, Demidko Volodymir Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Health Committee reviewed the draft law at its meeting and was determined as follows. That is, the addition to the law in force is in two positions. The first position is that reported by Mikola Stepanovich Komar. Only a list of infectious diseases that need to be added to existing legislation is involved. I mean, it's like a fairy tale, it's the hepatitis "B" and it's the other one. In all the experts in the Ministry of Health, committee members have no doubt that this list of diseases needs to be complemented, here we all think unanimously. As for the second question. This is the introduction of a control system for the use and use of immunobiological drugs, so here, in fact, the Ministry of Health has its own observations, Minfina has its own observations, experts have their own observations. Therefore, the committee at its meeting was determined because, at this stage, Valérie Petrovich is present as the body, the central authority of the executive branch, has been assigned to perform control functions on all medicines that are imported into the country, control and evaluation, and the second reading of the committee has been determined to complete the proposal once again. And you can agree to the first reading. Do not create in the draft law a separate body in the system of executive authorities to control immunobiological drugs. The Ministry of Health is responsible. And that was already done on the committee. The second reading will include proposals that will match today and the security of the use of these drugs, as well as the financial capabilities of the State. The committee therefore invites the National Deputies today to support this draft law in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u100	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Please sit down. Yes, who wants to share in the faction? Please sign up. Yes, individually. I don't believe you've forgotten which button to push. Yes, please, Gardens, microphone out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u101	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The bill is very important. Because at a time when there is no proper accounting for farming, animal production, it can be extremely dangerous to spread diseases. And that's where you have to put the order in the calculation. And that is why the bill does not raise any doubt in this regard. It is certainly necessary to take into account the observations that have been made, and to take advantage of the experience that we have had in decades before, when such control has been provided, such a calculation at all locations without exception. With regard to the creation of a separate government authority that would exercise control, there is also some doubt, because there is a need for additional funds from the State Budget. There's definitely no place to take them, because the budget isn't infinite. So, again, I would like to take into account the experience that has already been and put responsibility and control and accountability in this area, first of all, at the sanatorium, at the health clinic, at the health clinic. But it's a complex problem, and we need to study it, and we need to work on it. And in the second reading, just to take into account these suggestions and those suggestions that have been made before. The Socialists will support this bill in the first reading on the basis that it is necessary and I urge my colleagues to support this proposal, Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u102	Thank you. Valery Matthew, please, from the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u103	Matthew Valeria, faction of Party of Regions. You know, the situation in Ukraine at this point is that it is not demographically developing in the best way. Our population is getting smaller and smaller, and I want to draw attention to the fact that small children continue to die of a large number of infectious diseases. I therefore believe that this bill needs to be supported in order to ensure that the future of our Ukraine is normal and that our population is healthy, and that those small children who are currently suffering die from those infectious diseases, because we can see from the media in another place in which the outbreaks of the disease erupt. I believe that these preventions should be carried out, the bill supported. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u104	Thank you. Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u105	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, indeed, this bill, given the purpose of the bill, is not just on the part of some people who think it will be completely useless and so forth. I want to say that today the government and committee of the Supreme Council, headed by Tetjana Bahechev, is working at a serious level today. And I really want to thank my colleague, Mikola Komaru, who also made this bill. I'm not a doctor, but I know well, and you're all very well that after the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power station of stroncies and cesiums, we all know well, we all know that 30 years from now, it will start to fall apart. And as a result, even I have information because I was and suffered from an accident on Chernobyl. And I want to say that infections can be anything if we don't wait for them. That is why we need to be alert and prepared for the risk of infectious diseases. That's what I want to do today. And thank you both to the author, and to Aunty Bachtej, head of the Health Committee. Therefore, I would like to say that today’s government plans to increase funding for health care every year in the budget. And our goal, the Ukrainian National Deputies, is to support the government so that we can maximize the public budget of the people of Ukraine for treatment. Since the former governments have virtually destroyed themselves, they have abandoned a major health sector. And that's why we have to do everything today, God willing us to have more authors and work on draft laws that will really benefit the Ukrainian people. I also urge that this project should be supported immediately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u106	Thank you. Paul Gnatovich feels that you are sitting around the drafters of the bill. They have a positive effect on you. Project discussion completed. What is the opinion of the Ministry of Health, please, Valérie Iwasuk?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u107	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Indeed, this law is timely, because there are a number of infections that are not controlled in Ukraine, which are spread at an extremely high rate – particularly hepatitis B. I have to tell you, vaccination. Infections will benefit, as they will again control the development of the relevant epidemics. However, with regard to the body’s control of the quality of immunobiological drugs. I may not agree with my minister, but I have to say one thing. The existing authorities in the Ministry of Health do not exercise quality control over drugs and immunobiological drugs because they cannot carry out the body that orders something, uses it and controls it. It's a conflict of interest, it's purely a corruption scheme. And for today, tomorrow on the committee of Tetjana Bacheva, we're going to be discussing the quality control of anti-tuberculosis drugs that don't allow treatment and control of tuberculosis precisely because low-quality Indian producers are registering, which are causing the resistance that causes the uncontrolled development of the tuberculosis epidemic. This is exactly what happens to immunoprophylactics. Consider the problem with tuberculosis. Thus, the Committee’s Ministry of Health stated that they would create a special body for the control and registration of immunobiological drugs, eliminating the entire system that exists today in the Ministry of Health. This will save money, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, will remove the control system from the Ministry of Health and subordinate this system to the Cabinet of Ministers. This is true in the whole world, and it works only for the benefit and quality of control over, above all, infectious diseases. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u108	Thank you. Dear colleagues, we will be determined. It's literally two words. On the one hand, you can write down a law about a national or a special body, but on the other hand, let us not forget that according to the Constitution, the right to form and dispose of one or more executive organs belongs to the only body that is the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. That is, what the deputy minister said: they can quietly submit proposals to the Cabinet of Ministers, and the Cabinet of Ministers, without waiting, without needing any changes to the legislation, can carry out such a restructuring. And so I would ask that if we were, I think that we're going to support this bill in the first reading, when the committee is going to prepare it for the second reading, please consider this position so that we, well, don't put any extra pressure into the law, because it's a prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers, and let it deal with what organ it has to control, and probably not just those drugs, in general, and others. Because we're talking about tuberculosis, the immune system, and so on. In the light of the discussion, I am voting on the proposal: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 3252 “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases”. Please vote. [[13:39:25]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, we need to include a number of drafts in the agenda of the day session. The vote is on the inclusion in the agenda of the day session of Bill 3474, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Immigration Act. Governmental. Any questions? Take down the vote. Please, Pauline from the committee. Pavlenko Eduardo Ivanovich's microphone, please turn it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u109	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, the bill by making appropriate changes to existing legislation is called upon to finally resolve the issue of determining the legal status of persons who were forced to leave their residence in the Autonomous Republic of Abkhazia in connection with hostilities and to arrive in Ukraine. There is no doubt that the problem must be resolved in the legislative order. At the same time, it should be noted that since April 2, 2007, the committee's meeting has in fact been blocked by members of the committee from the faction "Our Ukraine" and the BIT, so no decisions have been made by the committee during this time due to the absence of a quorum. Taking into account the stated and requirements of the Rules of Procedure for the preparation and consideration of draft laws, it is not appropriate at this time to include in the agenda of the Supreme Council of Ukraine a review of Bill No. 3474 amending the Ukrainian Immigration Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-12-m0.u110	Thank you. I hope we can help your committee fill in the lava instead of those who have broken out and you will need a quorum to consider this issue. So far, we're not looking at it, we're putting it in the agenda, and there's life to show. I propose to vote in favour of the inclusion in the agenda of Bill 3474: draft law amending the Immigration Act of Ukraine. [[13:41:44]] For 232 Decision taken. There is a vote on the proposal for inclusion in the project, in the agenda, sorry, draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Defence Order, registration number 3514. Please vote. [[13:42:14]] For 249 Decision taken. A proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the day session is put to the vote of the draft Act amending the main laws of Ukraine on monetary regulation, registration number 3540. The author of the initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[13:42:45]] For 255 Decision taken. The proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on the State Privatisation Programme for 2007-2009 is put to the vote. Registration number 3512. Although the government itself can take such a program. Please vote. [[13:43:20]] For 238. A decision has been made. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the organization of statistical observations, registration number 3516, government bill. Please vote. [[13:43:52]] For 254 Copy that. The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act is put to the vote. Registration number 3545. The author of the initiative is the Cabinet of Ministers. Please vote. [[13:44:25]] For 259. A decision has been made. The proposal to include in the agenda of the daily session of the draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Population from Infectious Diseases is put to the vote. The Cabinet of Ministers is bringing in 3,546. Please vote. Maybe. [[13:45:01]] For 258. A decision has been made. Dear colleagues! The questions raised in the plenary session have been discussed with you. Requesting to work on the committees, starting work tomorrow at 10 o'clock. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed.
