ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! I ask the MPs to prepare their registration, remind everyone that today is June 19. Insert cards, make a name for it. [[10:00:24]] There were 269 national deputies registered, and the morning session was declared open. Welcome to the birthday of Burlakov Paul Mikolaiovich, who is now 44 years old. And Peter Volodymyrovich Melnik, who was 50 years old yesterday. [[Applause]] We wish them success, we wish them creativity. Have a seat, please. Peter Volodymyrovich, then you will accept the greeting in an individual order. According to the Rules, you have time for messages and speeches and suggestions. Sign up for the factions, please. And in private, please. Please, it's Tarasov. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u2	National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues, respected radio and television audiences! Today, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine has ruled out the composition of National Deputy Spodarenko Ivan Vasilovich. Spodarenko's exclusion from the Socialist faction in the Supreme Council has become the logical final of his divisive activities, the betrayal of the pre-election program by which he is non-partisan, elected to Parliament. And so to protect the interests of Ukrainian peasants, the transition to the camp of his present godfather, Yuri Lucenka. Congratulatory has been doing essentially subversive work against the Socialist Party of Ukraine for a long time on pages edited by him and by him in his own newspaper, The Village News. During the parliamentary elections, as part of the first five of the SPO’s electoral lists, John Vasilovich placed material on the pages of the “Silence News, ” a mildly unfriendly socialist party of content. During the last period, the newspaper under its actual direction is leading to an open and aggressive line on the SPI, causing misunderstandings and surprises among thousands of our fans, who are also subscribers of the “Village News”. And when we're in the districts and in the factions, we get hundreds of questions from people who don't understand what happened, why the newspaper has taken such an open enemy of socialists, and whether it agrees with the village's interests, as well as the newspaper itself. Passing the pages of the publication only for the publications of slanderous articles and letters about the activities of the Socialist Party and its leaders, the newspaper, at the same time, is not able to make an alternative point of view, it is pandering to a coalition of national unity, which is a member of which Spodarenko was actively agitating at his own time. What are the motives for the Smuggler's move to Lucenka's side? They don't have the slightest idea or political coloring, it's purely mercantile interest. Having become, in a questionable way, a single owner of many generations of talented journalists in an authoritative newspaper, Spodarenko, judging from everything, chose the path of wealth and gain. In Lucenka's face, the so-called “self-defense” of which is a political project of the Ukrainian oligarchs for the destruction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Spodarenko found his own soul, a financial companion. Apart from the faction, he became one of the organizers of a defamatory campaign on SPE, providing distorted information about Parliament’s work and the coalition, which in fact misleads readers. The faction worked with Spudrenk for a long time, counting on understanding, considering his age, to warn against an unbalanced step. However, he chose the course of an open fight against the political power that twice led him to the Supreme Council. We sincerely regret the fact that Spodarenko today has become involved with the rematchist in fact with his anti - state forces, which are destroying Ukraine as a state. It supports the ex-Minister of Internal Affairs of Lucenka, who was responsible for creating shadow schemes in the IMF system from the organization of trailer companies, whose activities have led to the loss of 1.6 billion coins by the state, suggests that Spudarenko is trying to use “Village News” to cover Lucenk’s position as an agent of the Ukrainian criminal capital. The Socialist Party has never hidden from the people the truth about the natives in the ranks of its parliamentary faction. Excluding Spudrenk from the faction an act of cleansing our ranks from defectors, which we will report to the electorate. As for the editorial group, we hope that common sense will be taken by the mountain and journalists of the edition to explain our reality objectively and impartially, bearing in mind the traditions on which the authority of the Village News was formed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u3	Thank you. Borschevski has the word. Marmazov's acting for him, and then Mendus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, the country, contrary to the will of the overwhelming majority of our people, has been involved in an electoral campaign imposed by an aggressive minority of political bankruptcys, which push for power and stop at nothing to achieve a rematch. For this reason, there is no reason to believe that the previous elections will be fair, honest, truly democratic. In fact, these will be the most dirty elections in the history of Ukraine. The electoral campaign has not yet officially begun, and the so-called opposition and the President have fully included administrative resources. Yushchenko was not only open to the opposition, he called it a democratic coalition, in fact, he became its organizer and actively engaged in the struggle, as he said at a recent press conference, for every percentage of the coalition. One of her leaders, Kirilenko, in an interview in The Mirror of Weeks, said that the bloc's leader could also be appointed by the President. It is not excluded that the last word would be for Viktor Andreevich, he said. But this is a direct violation of the Elections Act, which sets out a fundamental prohibition of agitation in favour of a party, a bloc, representatives of public authorities, which are, of course, the President of the country. I recall that the Political Parties Act explicitly states that public authorities, their officials, are prohibited from devoting certain political parties and conferring privileges on them. This requirement is unceremonious and cynical. The entire presidential vertical is focused on meeting the illegal requirements of Yushchenko. And most of the heads of state have already been involved in ensuring the victory of the oranges in the elections. I believe that we must demand that the Centre be fully utilized by the Prosecutor-General's Office and that we call for the order of those who violate the laws and the Constitution. It's in our power, we have to do it. We are also witnessing that President Yushchenko, orange, trying to lose his conscience and shame, is resorting to populist demagogies, hanging a paw on the ears of so-called voters. Just one example. The President took up the issue of parliamentary integrity, called upon his all friends, from the so-called democratic coalition, to renounce their integrity in writing, thus showing example and courage, according to the President. But it's pure water, demagogy and populism. For the authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Parliament, it is irrelevant to withdraw the MP's inviolability or withdraw it until such time as the Constitution is amended accordingly. This also raises the question of why Yushchenko had not exercised the constitutional law of the legislative initiative for nearly two years, and had not introduced a bill to the Supreme Council. Why his dear friends on the Supreme Council commission, which was considering the draft Act amending the Constitution, did not support the proposal of members of our faction to limit parliamentary integrity. They did not support it because many have come to Parliament to hide for this inviolability. Rather than withdrawing their parliamentary integrity, they need to talk about it in order to kill the electorate. People need to know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u5	Thank you. Jaroslav Mendus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Yesterday, Victor Yushchenko violated the Constitution of Ukraine in turn and the terms of the peace treaty of May 27. Yushchenko demanded that the Constitutional Court remove the participation of three judges, Stanik, Wheat and Yvashchenka. Let me remind you that Yushchenko considers these judges dismissed because he signed some papers on the subject. Thus, Victor Yushchenko allowed a violation of paragraph 7 of the joint statement of 27 May, which states: “the parties undertake not to allow outside their jurisdiction to interfere with the activities of the judiciary and the law enforcement authorities.” End of quote. In the same way, he demonstrated once again that only the Torture Justice that Balog and the company provide for him is acceptable to him. Yashchenko allows himself to exert outright pressure on the courts of all levels. Yushchenka’s words show that if the parliamentary elections were actually held on September 30, they would be in a climate of total lawlessness and legal chaos. The new elections will not be declared as transparent and democratic as the 2006 elections. They're going to be like a torture group from the President's Secretariat used to organize them in Zakartat using bandits, bribing judges and election board members. The actions of Yushchenka are another compelling demonstration for the entire democratic community in Ukraine and abroad. Yushchenko is not a Democrat, and he cannot claim to be a champion of European values. The elections will be accompanied by scandals and confrontations that Ukraine has never seen before. In addition to the flow of dirt in the media, the electoral process in that case, if it starts, will be accompanied by thousands of lawsuits, because there is no legal basis in the early elections, because Yushchenko, when initiating the elections, violated dozens of laws and rules of the Basic Law, the Constitution. In the President’s Secretariat, it is naively expected that the elections will lead to the defeat of the Socialist Party. However, only one possible election will result in the devastating defeat of Victor Yushchenk. Yushchenko put the cross in his political perspective. He is now convinced that by violating the law and the Constitution, he demonstrates determination and firmness, and that he has shown helplessness and a demonstration of inability to govern the country in accordance with valid legislation, in accordance with the Constitution, not with understanding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u7	Thank you. Boki Ivan Sidorovich has the word. After him, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, I would like to add to what has been said here the harm done by President Yashchenk's decrees, the state system, the political system of our country. The actual blocking of the Supreme Council’s activities by Viktor Yushchenk and Julia Timoshenko has resulted in irreparable losses in the social sphere. I want to inform our radio audiences, particularly social workers, on this example. We, members of the Socialist faction, I, Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, Michael Vasilovich Melniczuk and Anatoly Alexandrovich Bugajaj, have introduced a draft bill amending some of the Ukrainian laws on social welfare and pension insurance for public and municipal education, culture and health institutions at the level of government officials. What is it? This bill proposes to change some of the pay system in the education, health, and cultural systems. In particular, it is about setting wages in this area at the average level of industry. While this is not happening, a crisis is on the rise in education and in all these other areas. What is it? We propose, along with the increase in wages, to raise the pension of public officials to the level of educational, cultural, and health care. That means that if today, let's say the teacher's salary, I mean the teacher's pension or the paramedic's pension is 450-480 dollars, if our law were to be adopted, and the economic preconditions for that in the country would be 800-1000 dollars. The president has also effectively blocked the changes to the Education Act, which provides for a reduction in the number of classes now between five and 30 students and is proposed from three to 25. It also suggests a reduction in the number of children in the classroom to be divided into subgroups. Now it's divisible by 28. Then we could divide by 28. In fact, it would be 12 and 12.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u9	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u10	Teacher work and has also solved many other problems in school, particularly in connection with the demographic situation in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u11	Thank you. Richchuk. Next, Mordovian.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u12	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! I would like to address the issue of the work of the Central Electoral Commission, which, of course, cannot be spoken of without the proper work of the Central Electoral Commission. The Central Election Commission is the body where people are supposed to work, who are examples of honesty and objectivity. But how can this be said when a member of the new Central Electoral Commission is a person who, according to the Supreme Court of Ukraine, is found guilty of abuse of the will of citizens. It's a member of the C.V.C.C., Andrew Maher. Yes, on December 26, 2004, Mr. Magera sent a letter on his own signature in which members of the territorial electoral commissions were unlawfully targeted at the abuse of office in favour of the candidate for the post of President of Ukraine, Mr. Yushchenk. At the same time, Andrew Magera intimidated the secretary of the 126th District Electoral Commission, forcing the law to be grossly violated. [[and all this has been established, proved by the Supreme Court of Ukraine on 27 December 2004]] This is evidenced by the acts of order established by law and signed by three individuals. These circumstances have led to significant violations of electoral law and give reasons for viewing the actions of a member of the CLTC, Mr. Magrey, overstepping legal powers and abuse of office. This person cannot work for the Central Electoral Commission because he has grossly violated his oath. Mageri’s syndrome seems to have covered the new head of the V.C.C.C.V.V. Vladimir Shapovala, who, despite the fact that the Central Election Commission is a collegiate body, acted. College action involves one - on - one decisions that grossly violate existing legislation. Furthermore, it does not convene a Central Election Commission meeting to violate the CWC Labour Rules, although more than a third of the special composition of the CWC is required. In general, the opposition’s actions regarding the activities of the CLTC constitute a brutal breach of political arrangements. It turns out that the President's side in the CBC is doing everything they can to disrupt the election. In this connection, there is a suggestion: Let Mr. Shapowal consult with Yashchenk and now make a decision to establish the results of future elections and publish them in the press, or, God forbid, the electorate will be called to a vote whether the server will make a mistake or not, it will produce results. At the same time, another Presidential decree to re-elect will certainly appear. This is another gloom for all of Ukraine and a considerable cost of government spending. With regard to Mr. Meggera, I think we should take the Supreme Council's Order with a request to the President to withdraw him from the CBC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is Mordovian. He's got Kurinsky on him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! I would like to address the issues of how local authorities are involved, and we well know that the local authorities today are represented by the following political forces: regional and regional government are headed by representatives of “Our Ukraine” and, in most cases, local government authorities, usually representatives of Central Ukraine, today are headed by representatives of the Yulia Tamoshenko Block. And in preparation for possible elections today, everything is being done to falsify these elections. Such steps include the sum of the district council. This is done in various ways, including by coming to the leadership of the Suma region of the representative of “Our Ukraine” of Mr. Kachura. In particular, it was initiated, at first glance, such a useful step for the action, which is called “Give the school a window”. However, the language goes to replace in schools windows, existing wooden windows on metal plastics. At first glance, this idea is not bad. But in what way it is being implemented today, that is exactly what is causing protests from our citizens, particularly teachers of public schools. This is about the fact that instead of having no funds and power, it is impossible to accumulate funds, such as the cost of local entrepreneurs. You remember that during the 2004 election campaign, today’s President of Ukraine promised that under new conditions, when he came to power, the rich would definitely share with the poor. That would be the way the local authorities would act, involving local entrepreneurs, businessmen. There are especially many of them today among the deputies of the Sumu District Council, the Sumu City Council, other councils. However, the authorities took a different step. Today, teachers in public schools are forced to count their daily earnings on this particular program. Well, of course, at this cost, even for one window in a public school, if you count. That's not enough. And we don't know where this window is going to be put and whether it's going to lead to energy conservation. I was approached by the teachers of these schools, especially when they turned to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u15	Thank you. The word is Curinne. Danilov Alexy Mechislavovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Free Democrat Interfractional Union, wanted to make a few important points, in our view. Well, first of all, free Democrats have taken with great surprise the Supreme Council's decision to regroup the heads of a number of parliamentary committees of the Supreme Council. Reason. These positions according to the quota are opposed. And they should be embraced by the opposition, not by political defectors, who recently switched to the parliamentary majority. The defectors, those political hyenas, invaded parliamentary offices. I would like to remind our audience that if there are two opposite thoughts in the mind of a person, it is schizophrenia. Secondly, we remind ourselves that, in opposition to power, we are not going to participate in any projects initiated by the parliamentary majority or the government, or by the Bank, including the so-called "BUT-2" political project. Therefore, the parents of the so-called “BUT-2” either fail to count or rush to count five members of the Free Democrat Party. Dear friends, we're on our way. We have a different view of life and a different understanding of what is happening in the country. Thirdly, the state has recently opened a pompous museum of Soviet occupation, where the Communist Party of the Soviet Union operates in red tape. I was born in 1962, and Ivan Stepanovich Plusz joined the Communist Party of the Soviet Union in 1962. So I have a question for these people. Why is there no portrait of this respectable man in this museum? Why such selectiveness in this regard? And last of all, I would like to turn to my most respected friends, the accredited ambassadors of foreign countries in Ukraine, particularly Western Europe. Although Yushchenko has forbidden you to communicate with us, I would like to contact you with the following. You teach us a lot of democracy, you tell us how to do it. But unfortunately, either you have a double moral about Ukraine, or you have some personal vision of democracy. Any president of a European state like Yushchenka would no longer be president of this country, and unfortunately, you'd be silent and next time you'd be invited to your seats in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u17	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! [[Simonenko, Communist faction]] As we speak from this rostrum today, I would like to draw your attention to two basic questions. As you know, drought today is a concern for everyone and it is a threat to stability in our country. It's about food security issues about the prospect of developing a village, whether there will be young people there or not, and it's a matter of very serious concern today, both to us national MPs and to the government. But I'd like to draw your attention to the next, the Dnipropetrov region once again selected as an orange sabotage range. And you, the honourable voters, listening to radio and television reports about rising prices for bread, should understand that the promotion is organized by the bullies, particularly Deputy Trinduk, who has a direct bearing on the ownership of the bread business and it's these representatives of this political force that organized this sabotage and they're trying to shift all the responsibility for raising prices, and it's a very serious problem for the functioning and coalition and the government. The agrarian fund, as well as the state reserve, today has enough grain and flour for five months at least, and it is possible to ensure stability that will enable effective measures to be taken to regulate the state. Again, a faction of Communists suggests that the government do so. First of all, it's urgent to make a decision to ban the export of grain from Ukraine at all. And so make serious, well-founded calculations about food grain balance and what today will allow for radiation and the insurance fund to provide. I think that in the state reserve the government should urgently use measures to buy at least one and a half million tons of grain in order to stabilize the situation and not allow it to play in human misery, to those who today, like Trinduk's bulwarks today, are trying to have an income to raise prices on the same bread. Next. Consider lowering the loan rate for peasants because they need to sit back and secure a future crop. And this loan, along with the National Bank, has to be reduced from 3 to 6 percent, thus allowing normal circulation costs. Separately consider the support of peasants, where drought destroyed everything in their own village garden. Thus, it will be possible to really protect our village, especially when Ukraine is trying to get involved in the World Trade Organization and much more. There will be a blow to our village. Thus, a faction of Communists proposes to move on to decisive but practical actions to support both the village and Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u19	Instead of Silchenko, someone was going to perform, right? The package is written down, please, by the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u20	Pachezuk, faction of the region of Ukraine. The continuation of the conversation initiated by Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, I would like to say that there are three farms in Cherkaščina, which are owned by a representative from BUTU. Thus, following instructions on destabilizing the situation in Ukraine, one of such productions was closed yesterday and the work of the Kamin Farm was discontinued. In the same way, the owner threw 130 employees onto the street. The question is, why, then, is the BUTU faction, to deputise from BUTU, instead of working for the consolidation of society, today will be pushed to a standstill not only by political power but by Ukraine as a whole. The question is, When will this political power end, which, in words for the well - being of the people and in action, does everything to destabilize Ukraine? And I want those politicians who are now in favor of making an election to come to this company and see what kind of bleach the people who are protecting this company are doing. Because an enterprise has a commission, a defence committee, and they don't allow the export of property, nothing, they cut off property to close the business. One company in Žaskov was already closed, and the following was closed immediately. The question is whether there will then be bread in the State and whether there will be another bread crisis that is linked to that political power. I urge the political power of BUTU to stop destabilizing the situation and to allow people who want it to work properly, who decide the fate of Ukraine. And bread can be precious only today because of the destabilizing of these political forces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u21	Thank you, have a seat, please. In accordance with the procedure provided for in article 60 of the Rules, members of the Socialist faction, John Spodarenko, were exchanged. Now it's about a topic that's been in the media all the time, and in the debates, and yesterday on TV, there were days in the paper. There are questions everywhere about the cessation of the Supreme Council’s right of validity. I want to remind everyone that all that the Supreme Council does in its walls regarding the exit from the factions of specific deputies is entirely in line with the Constitution and the Rules of the Supreme Council. All that outside the Supreme Council is not regulated by law today, and we come out of the period that is coming. the direct, direct, application of the rules of the Constitution, such as Article 82, when the Supreme Council is not justified under actual circumstances. So, let's say that this procedure, I'm not going to comment on it from the point of view of right: assembly, decision-making, and so on, because it's not in the law. But the point is that the Central Election Commission is obliged to confirm the impossibility of replacing the deputies in accordance with the People's Deputies Act. This should be evidence that the Central Electoral Commission does not have on the list of those who may come to the Supreme Council. We can't get that answer from the Central Electoral Commission, not because it can't give it, but because the Central Electoral Commission's work is blocked. And in the form of meetings, there are already two weeks, even more, the Central Election Commission cannot work. The answers that have already been provided by two, the head of the Central Electoral Commission, do not provide an explanation on the substance of the matter. The final answer is that there are cases in the courts about the so - called renaissance of lists — the first part. And the second is that the Supreme Council has adopted the Law, the amendments to the Elections Act, more faithfully, the Elections Act, and it does not directly say to the Head of the Central Electoral Commission that it is governed by this law, because he is a literate lawyer, and he understands that this would be absurd, because this law does not take effect until the beginning of August. But the reference in itself does not give anything either, because I want to remind you that at the beginning of this year, the President of Ukraine addressed the Constitutional Court for clarifications on the possibility of re-establishing lists, on the grounds of exit or expulsion from the faction of deputies, and so on, where the authors of this submission, I refer to the Yulia Timoshenko Block and the President himself, making clear references to the fact that the Central Election Commission in this case is governed by the Central Electoral Commission Act and the People's Election Act on the basis of which the composition of today's Parliament was formed. [[And this document was prepared by his representative, who is now the head of the Central Electoral Commission.]] Interesting very document and from. The submission is from the Yulia Block Timoshenko, where there are several very specific points that need clarification from the Central. More loyally, the Constitutional Court. But before the Constitutional Court had to make the appropriate decision, it had been followed up with what you are observing today. And so, part of the political, political and legal process that's done by demonstrating the exit of the faction of the specific MPs will not be completed, because, on the one hand, the Constitutional Court is blocked, on the other hand, the work of the Central Electoral Commission is not working, on the other hand, blocked. And I can only report that a group of national MPs have appealed to the Attorney General's Office for a violation of legislation by the Central Electoral Commission, which is not working, because it is their constitutional duty, not the desire of a certain level leader. I hope that we will get an explanation for this. In any case, we are fully, the Parliament is rightful until the implementation of the rule provided for by the Constitution of Ukraine on the replacement of national deputies, or until the Central Election Commission guarantees that it has no grounds for substitution, i.e. there are no people, or there are those who should be replaced by those who do not want to work in the Parliament of Ukraine. We have lived to realize that the President's office manager is in charge and that the authority of the Supreme Council has been suspended. The most interesting thing is that the President does not take on such a mission, because he understands that this does not apply to his authority, but the head of the office is the person whose office is not mentioned in the Constitution becomes higher than the Constitution, in principle, determines whether or not he can work in the Supreme Council. Well, I think the estimates on this point will be given at the right time and, more faithfully, at the right time, but I'm just obliged to inform you about these details. Likewise, according to the Rules, I must inform you that several other deputies from the faction of the "Timoshenko Block" wrote statements, more faithfully, they filed them at the end of last month, and they were written on April 18th, and 17 of them were two statements and three to 18 April. For example, Abdulina’s statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” which I was elected as the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as a national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” And in order not to take up your time, I confirm that that's exactly the meaning of the word, and the coma was written by the statement: Sergei Burak, Tariel Vasadze, Ludmila Denisov and Andry Senchenko. Just Denisova and Sanchenko wrote these statements on April 17th and the rest on April 18th. And from the block of "Our Ukraine" were also written statements: Topoloov and Liszczko, Viktor Topoloov and Ruslan Liszichko. The table of contents is different, you know it. “Following the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my resignation. of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call." That's exactly what Ruslan Liszichka wrote. And both of these statements are written by 18 numbers. We now have a daily report from the Temporary Special Commission to examine the status of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the normative and law - enforcement activities of government bodies, officials, other subjects of authority. In this regard, the head of the interim commission, Hara Vasil Georgievovich, will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, the temporary special commission of the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine to examine the status of compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in the normative and enforcement activities of public authorities, officials and other authorities, in accordance with Parliament's decree of 23 February 2007, submits a preliminary report on compliance with the rule of law in our State. The field of action of the Commission was mainly the actions of the President and the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which are reflected in the report. The comments and proposals of the Council of National Security and Defence, the Council of Ministers and the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the National Bank of Ukraine, the Commissioner for Human Rights, the Statehood Fund and the Foundation for the Promotion of Local Self-Government were also elaborated. In the preliminary report given to you, all the detailed materials prepared by the Commission on these State bodies are available. The Commission held four meetings, made two reports at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In reporting on the work done during this period, the temporary special commission emphasizes the normative activities of the President of Ukraine, as the legal instruments issued by him do not only support criticism of national jurisprudence but also of the European fundamental principles of constitutional law. The members of the interim monitoring commission note the escalation of doubtful and more specifically those who do not comply with the Constitution and the laws of the President of Ukraine. These are questions relating to humanitarian, human rights, economics, national security, diplomacy, the judiciary. In a word, all that came to the President's mind. Our commission has carried out over 1,400 Presidential acts in five months and nearly 5,000 acts of the Cabinet of Ministers issued since the beginning of constitutional reform. At the same time, it was found that 75 acts of the President had been issued without a constitutional norm — countersignatures, 40 staff appointments in local administrations had been made contrary to the law, 24 decrees had been issued without appropriate agreement in the field of diplomacy, 46 appointments of judges without law. Only in mid-May have 36 decrees been issued to date for the administration and appointment of judges who have gravely violated the Constitution. At the Constitutional Court, 24 requests for recognition of unconstitutional acts by the President are pending. Today, 200 acts of the Head of State contain a violation of the law, which is not only unacceptable to a democratic State, but also criminalizing it. It is clear to all healthy politicians and ordinary citizens that the functions of the President are clearly defined by article 106 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which clearly states in paragraph 31 that the powers of the President are determined exclusively by the Constitution. Similarly, the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 10 April 2003 clearly states that the powers of the President of Ukraine are fully defined by the Constitution of Ukraine. It is not clear only to the President and his Secretariat. Noting the constitutional reform in force, the President of Decrees No.140 on the concept of the development of legislation, on public service, No. 187 on the measures for the development of irrigation in Ukraine, No. 300 on the plan of priority measures in the field of investment activities, and others on the economic sphere of the State, which, in accordance with article 116 of the Constitution, belongs exclusively to the powers of the Cabinet of Ministers as the supreme authority of the executive branch. In ignoring legislation, the Head of State, in an attempt to regain the royal personnel powers of the fourth of December 2004, issued Decree No.1025 on the List of Military Officers and Leaders, for which the appointment is in agreement with the President of Ukraine. It is then repealed and issued within four months by another Decree, No. 205 of 14.03.2007, “Questions relating to the control of a military organization by the law enforcement authorities of States”. The President is therefore attempting to establish a procedure for harmonization with him and the first deputies, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Minister of Defence, Head of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. As a result of constitutional reform and in accordance with article 9 of the Ukrainian Constitution, articles 20 and 21 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, the establishment and liquidation of central authorities, the appointment and dismissal of leadership, the coordination of their work is carried out by the Supreme Executive Authority, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. In this case, it is unclear that the President is here and under what right does he exceed his constitutional powers? Today, the President is less connected to the executive branch than it was before constitutional reform, which is why, in principle, article 106, paragraph 10, part-time, clearly states that his right to apply to the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the appointment of the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs. Even so, the President and his team were able to ignore this regulatory rule and a decree was issued on 5 December 2006 extending the performance of the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ukraine, Tarasyuk. In this case, the President ignored the constitutional norm voted in the Supreme Council, thereby violating the principle of the separation of power, the fundamental principle of the democratic organization of the State. In addition, the concept should be emphasized. The extension of the functions of the head of the central executive body has no legal basis. But it obviously has no moral or legal significance for the President, and it goes on. By Decree No. 1164 of 29 December 2006 on the temporary performance of the duties of the heads of local public administrations, he decided to make a new appointment to the heads of administration. It must be said, however, that the newly served head of the local administration was often far from the public administration system at all. It could have been a business manager, a gym teacher, a party leader, unemployed and so on. 33 such appointments were issued by the Head of State. At the same time, he did not feel that neither the Constitution nor the law contained provisions which provided for the appointment of acting heads of local administrations. Article 39 of the Local Public Administrations Act clearly states that in the absence of a Chief of Administration, the First Deputy and Deputy shall perform his duties. Article 40 of the same Act provides that functions and responsibilities between the Head of Administration, the first traps, the traps, and other officials shall be allocated in accordance with the official instructions. In addition, in accordance with article 118, part 4, of the Constitution, the heads of local administrations are appointed by the President upon submission of the Cabinet of Ministers, and in this case, by issuing the above-mentioned decree and subsequent orders, the President of Ukraine is in grave violation of all possible constitutional and legislative provisions. But this is not the only case of such violations, which unfortunately are increasing in geometric progress. Seventy-five acts of the President were issued without constitutional provisions, part four of article 46 of the Basic Countersignment Act. Note, in February, when the Commission made its first report, the number of such acts was 34, and in the four months following, the number doubled. The President and officials of the Secretariat, in their statements, have urged us that there is no legislative mechanism for counter-sensification, although this rule is not new, has been in force since 1996, since the adoption of the Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Article 6 of the Act clearly states that “the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court shall be based on consultations of the President with the Prime Minister of Ukraine. The appointed judge shall be the candidate for whose appointment a presidential decree has been issued, signed by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice.” But the wrong president isn't just contrasting. He issues decrees 369, 370, 390 on the dismissal of the judges of the Constitutional Court: the Wheat Court, Stanik, Ivashchenko. None of the provisions of the Constitution and the law in the creation of these masterpieces are complied with. Article 126, 149 of the Constitution, article 123 of the Constitutional Court Act, article 69 of the Constitutional Court Rules. Contrary to legislation, the Head of State has not been able to hear the explanations of dismissed judges, not to discuss the matter on a special commission, not to be considered in the Constitutional Court itself and finally in Parliament. Similarly, while ignoring legislation, the President has rushed to appoint new judges: Gavrish and Kosticki. He lacks individual judges of the Constitutional Court — he begins to terrorize the Constitutional Court itself, the only body of constitutional jurisdiction, in order to prevent the repeal of the Anti-Constitutional Decree on the early termination of the Supreme Council's powers. By his actions, the President had in fact destroyed the Constitutional Court. In addition to the dictatorship over the Constitutional Court, the President is today trying to establish a dictatorship in other authorities. The facts are Decrees 56 of 30 January 2007 and 512 of 7 June 2007. As is already clear from the titles of the decrees, the President orders his representatives to be placed in the Commity Fund and the Central Electoral Commission. [[Issues of the State Property Fund of Ukraine]] [[on representatives of the President of Ukraine to the Central Electoral Commission]] But the most interesting thing is that, in the absence of a legal basis, such actions are carried out by the head of State.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u23	Let me finish. Five more minutes and you're done.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u24	It motivates the Head of State to motivate part two of article 102 and article 106 of the Constitution. Think of this, please, as a guarantee of the State sovereignty of Ukraine's territorial integrity. The more absurd suspicion that there may be a threat to Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity in the State Welfare Fund and in the CLTC is impossible. Neither the Constitution nor the laws provide for the President's right to administer public property. The same is true of the Centre for Elections, the President, contrary to the law, is imposing its own person there for the implementation, in fact, of control and pressure on an independent body. In addition, it should be noted that the representative of the President in CEC exercises his powers on a public level. That is, it is not covered by the Ukrainian Civil Service, Anti-Corruption and Information Act. In short, such a representative may do anything and be responsible for nothing. However, it is the responsibility of everyone other than the President and his Secretariat to act in our State. This is evidenced by the three Presidential Decrees on the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, where no constitutional provisions and the Ukrainian Act are respected. It makes no sense to elaborate on the analysis of these masterpieces, since it is presented in the preliminary report and has been published in the media on more than one occasion. Reports were also made from this rostrum. But it seems strange that the rationale for the decrees is new every time. In the first decree, reference to one article of the Constitution, another to another article, and in the third, to Parliament's early elections in general is an agreement. It is very sad to know that the President is convinced that only his signature at the Decree can he carry out the fate of the people. The status of the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution is exercised on his own understanding, assuming that no one is allowed to interfere with it. In doing so, by issuing decrees, giving instructions on any subject that would be in his head. And these are not bare words, they're real facts. By Decree No. 970 of 15 November, the President approved a provision for the preparation and introduction of draft acts by the President, which mandated all organs to submit proposals to the President. In addition, the provision provides that projects shall be submitted directly without agreement with the Cabinet of Ministers. It has long been news that the Head of State has used double standards in his activities. In order not to be loud, let me give you a few examples. First. The President does not comply with the constitutional counter-signature of part four of article 106 of the Basic Law, convincing everyone that there is no legislative mechanism. In another case, under a peremptory mandate, referring to article 2, paragraph 6, of the Constitution, 81 did not complain of the lack of a legislative mechanism and required unconditional application of the Constitution. Second. The President will in fact ignore the decision of the Jovtjak restoration court. And by playing the walking combination, Piscona recovered by order of the court. Third. He dismissed the post of Attorney-General for more than 20 days with a deputy mandate, and the Immortal has been considered normal for several months to reconcile the post in the Secretariat and the delegation. Fourth. The people of the Hellette State do not allow the judges of the Constitutional Court to go to work, put pressure on them, and seize the Attorney General's Office. And that's considered normal. And the fact that Tsusko, acting strictly under the law in the Attorney General's Office, prevented all acts of force and bloodshed, is considered a crime. Dear colleagues, due to limited time, only a fraction of the violations in the President's activities were covered in the preliminary report. You'll find details in the material you've been given. The material presented a number of problems in relation to the conformity of the Constitution, and the laws of Ukraine showed information from the Constitutional Court. During the period from 1 January 2006 to the present time, the Constitutional Court received 1811 referrals. Of these, 44 constitutional submissions and 326 constitutional references to constitutional compliance with the provisions of legislation. Dear colleagues! On all the above and other issues, our Commission has made a thorough analysis and has systematized and sent to the relevant authorities for decision-making. The Commission receives numerous appeals from citizens who express their vision of legislative problems and how to address them. Today, we have before us a large number of legislations that require legal analysis and response. The Commission notes that the violations in this area are an incredible number and the main violator in Ukraine, the President, who, by his anti-constitutional actions and legal nihilism, terrorizes the entire country. So endlessly it cannot continue, must not suffer the people and the whole country because of the desire of an unpredictable person, with a painful imagination. We need a change, a return to the legal field. The Commission has prepared a draft decision of the Supreme Council on the results of the preliminary report, and please support the draft regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u25	Is there a question for Vasil Georgievich? If you have any questions, please sign in. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u26	Thank you. Vasil Georgievich! First of all, I would like to thank you for the meaningful information that we know about today, but we don't know all of the Ukrainian people, and that's very good. And from that point of view, I have a question for you. And why is your commission analysing the situation so many violations of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine by the President's Institute? Why didn't your commission make any draft rulings to Parliament, particularly I didn't make a single statement and make a proposal to the Cabinet of Ministers to look at individual provocateurs in this institution, such as lawyers, who allowed such rude, cynical violations of the Constitution and the laws. Just don't fund such an institution, either completely or partially. And such insolents just, after all, have to be put in place. To whom do you put today, to what institute?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u27	Dear Pavel Gnatovic, our commission is only today, in accordance with Parliament's decision, reporting to you in advance and annexing the draft order. But we have sent letters on the basis of first information to the President's Administration, by the way, the only institution that hasn't actually responded to our commission. Little has been said that we are not obliged to present such material and little has been submitted to the Registry of the President for constitutionality and the establishment of our commission. We have also addressed the Cabinet of Ministers on matters that fall within the competence of the Cabinet of Ministers. But the decisions you are talking about must be made here in the walls of Parliament. Of course, everything must be done to put an end to the divide that is being created today in the President's Secretariat and to the signature of the President of Ukraine on those documents.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u28	Murderer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u29	Dear Vassil Georgievic, your commission has indeed carried out a thorough analysis of the implementation of the Constitution by the higher authorities, but there may be some problems that are said to be with the “brow”. We have a lot of examples in Ukraine where district district councils over the past year have expressed mistrust in a number of heads of local administrations, the president has not responded to these changes, that's the first question. Second, have you analyzed the reasons why, over the course of the year, there are several district government administrations, where the responsibilities of district administrations are not fully replaced and there are those already in place for 14 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u30	Unfortunately, we have declared the report for 20 minutes, but by rule ten, we have just extended that time, and I have not been able to explain not only the issues you are talking about, but many other proposals. We have considered the documents and the Council of the National Security and Defence, the Association of Cities and so forth, much more material on this subject, but we have not had enough time. You understand, unfortunately, that there is no mechanism for our influence on the President, in large measure, and this is the greatest disaster. And I can honestly say that, after the first act of 2 April, we have acted inadequately and given the President the opportunity to “blow up” and do what he is doing to date. Therefore, if we stay as a Parliament and work until 2011, we have a very big challenge: to change the Constitution in order to balance the branches of power. They're completely out of balance today, and the president is practically, let's say, a position that's untouchable. And an impeachment procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u31	Thank you, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u32	Please tell me I have the impression that in fact the commission worked only on the actions of the President of Ukraine and did not touch other authorities and officials. Please tell me, how many documents, illegal decrees, have the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine accepted? That's the first one. And the second question. In the draft decree, the third paragraph is that you propose to recognize the actions of the President of Ukraine in such a way that they do not meet the national interests of Ukraine. Tell me if there are such powers on your commission and on the Supreme Council, to acknowledge the actions of the President that are not in the interests of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u33	Regarding the first question I have already said, I just had to cut myself down. With regard to the Cabinet of Ministers, we have considered five thousand acts issued by the Cabinet of Ministers. The Commission is obliged to note and draw attention to only three decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the former. This is regulation No. 950, where, contrary to the Constitution, a special procedure is established for the appointment, dismissal and dismissal of the Deputy Minister and Minister of Defence. 572 and number 20 are in over-class public servants in the President's secretariat. And we recommended the Cabinet of Ministers to abolish them. With regard to everyone else, I repeat, we have studied 5,000 regulations issued by the Cabinet of Ministers, violations of the Constitution and laws have not been found. What about the three decisions taken by the previous Cabinet of Ministers? Once again, we appeal to the current staff to abolish them. As to whether we have the right to make such an assessment, I think we have such a right because the Supreme Council is in control of implementation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u34	Thank you. Bogchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u35	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Your Honor, I am prepared to sign under all the text of your information, and I believe that the abuse is much more than that, and it is necessary to continue the work of the commission to investigate these truly illegal, unconstitutional facts of the President's activity. I support that the appointment of heads of state administrations outside the State Service Act is not only without recommendations from the Cabinet of Ministers, even people without education, without going beyond the limits of age and so on. But today, the President is illegally involved in the work of constitutional bodies, the Constitutional Court, the Attorney General's Office, the courts of general jurisdiction, the Central Electoral Commission. In fact, it interferes with their activities, which is a sign of criminal crime. Do you not think that today, for the conclusions of your commission, it is necessary to rule on the beginning of the President's impeachment procedure?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u36	I agree with your proposal, but I wish to say that unfortunately this will not lead to the results that we want, because the procedure is written in such a way that we have the President as a king intact in the end. You remember how many times we've decided to set up a special commission, a special investigator, a special prosecutor. Both the Presidents and the current President have vetoed. I think we have much more to date, because we have lost time and in time we have not interrupted the anti-law, anti-constitutional activities of the President, just waiting for a better time, but the President and his team should know, not today, not tomorrow, not tomorrow, so they will have to answer in accordance with the existing Ukrainian legislation, they must know that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u37	Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u38	Please pass on the word Sinchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u39	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u40	Vassili Grigorovich, in his time, Judge Vasilenko was not afraid to bring a case against the previous President and only on one fact. Today, from what you have said, there is evidence of a number of abuses by the authorities of official regulations are criminal articles of criminal law for three terms under criminal law and four impeachments. But you will tell me why the conclusion of this commission is all over, to draw the President's attention to the systematic failure of Ukraine's Constitution and the laws of Ukraine to issue legislation. Why not make the question of bringing an official to justice under all the strictness of our legislation?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u41	Dear Sergey Grigorovich, well, first of all, today's preliminary report is incomplete, in line with the decisions of the Supreme Council. Secondly, we have considered such options as a preliminary meeting of the Commission. Unfortunately, however, the Commission considered it possible for the first decision to submit such a draft regulation, and once we have made a final decision, perhaps the proposals you are talking about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u42	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a desire to comment on this? None. So let us take this to the head of the committee who thoroughly reported his document. And it should be said, on the 44 pages of the confirmed conclusions, the draft decree proposes to publish them through the newspaper Voice of Ukraine. You have to give a lecture, because clearly there is no newspaper that will print that much of the document. We need to refer to the specifics and conclusions, perhaps from your report as well. You have draft Decree 3692 on this report, the preliminary report of the interim commission. I'm putting the vote on the basis of the draft report, on the basis. [[11:11:28]] For 255 Copy that. I would ask your permission before putting this decision to the vote as a document, Vasily Georgievic, as you see the second and third paragraphs unifying. Because if we simply record the President's actions in ways that do not suit the Ukrainian state's interests, it means that all the President's actions are not in line. It's impossible to write like that. So if we combine it with the second point and write: to recognize the President's actions in this part, then it's the right thing to do. Is there no objection? With this amendment, please allow me to put this draft regulation to the vote as a whole. [[11:12:27]] For 262 It's been decided. Please consider the draft Decision on the calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. Reported the head of the Committee of Ephraim, Alexander Sergiyovich. Please. Deputy Head of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u43	Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! In accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 13 of the Supreme Council Committee and the Committee's work plan at the meeting of the Committee on 6 June 2007, the draft calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council for the fifth call was prepared by the Chief Organising Authority of the Supreme Council. According to the requirements of part seven of article 19 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the project was previously directed to the MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Note of the proposed calendar plan for the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the fifth time was not received from the MPs. In accordance with part one of article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the project provides for the opening of the plenary sessions of the fourth session on September 4, 2007. The fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is scheduled to be concluded on January 11, 2008. During this time it is proposed to work in plenary mode to take 10 weeks, to work in committees and factions – 5 weeks, and to work with voters – 4 weeks, and it is planned to spend 10 hours of questions to the government in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine include a draft calendar plan for the holding of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the order of the day of the third session and support the draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the national deputies of Ukraine, members of the committee, registration number 3647 of June 6, 2007. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u44	The point is, it's a matter of plan, first. Secondly, the Conciliation Council agreed to the inclusion in the agenda, so there is no need to put it to the vote. In fact, if there are any comments or questions to the reporter, please ask these questions. No questions asked. I want to say that the Conciliation Board considered these proposals yesterday, accepted them as optimal. So I put to the vote a draft decree of the Supreme Council on the calendar of the fourth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. [[Registration number 3647]] I'm betting on the vote as a whole. [[11:15:39]] For 263 Decision taken. The draft Supreme Council Regulation on the calendar plan for the fourth is under consideration. [[Registration number 3647]] Excuse me, the draft Decision on some issues to ensure the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the opening of the opening of the next session of the Fifth Council. He will report to Boki Ivan Sidorovich as the author of the bill and then to the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! We and the Ukrainian national deputy Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselovi have introduced a draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on some of the issues of securing the organization of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the opening of the opening of the next session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call given to you. Where did we come from? It is no secret that in the last two months, because of the tightening political situation in Ukraine, Ukrainian national deputies have failed to fulfil their responsibility — to maintain ties with the electorate. There is another situation: from 5 to 9 July 2007 an important international event will take place in the current Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has been preparing for more than one year, is the 16th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe – the OSCE. And it needs to be prepared seriously both politically and organizationally. The draft ruling on these circumstances proposes to amend the calendar plan for the fifth session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, approved by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 21 December 2006, by establishing the closure of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call on 27 June 2007, and providing for the week, from 20 to 27 June, for the work of the national deputies with the electorate, i.e. the formal closure of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to be held at the meeting on 27 June this year. The draft decision is also proposed to hold an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, as defined in the second part of article 11 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, following the publication in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine of the corresponding order of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to convene an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council issued at the invitation of the Conciliation Council of Deputies in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Our work with my colleague, Acid, will enable us to ensure proper preparation and holding of the 16th session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly and to facilitate the participation of the people's deputies in the work of the electorate and to ensure that the Constitution of Ukraine guarantees the continuity of the higher legislative body in the Ukrainian State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u46	Is there a question for John Sidorovich? Please. Stoyan has one question. And Matthew's.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u47	Alexander Stoyan, head of the National MPs' union. I'm underlining this because I'm still interested in how people's deputies are going to rest in the summer? We worked normally for a year, and I think they deserve a vacation. So, Ivan Sidorovich, please explain to me when we're officially done when we can go on vacation. There's not going to be any family left here, and you're going to drop everything, and you're going to the next meeting of the Supreme Council? We support the draft decree as a whole, but make this part clear, for the deputies need to organize rest for themselves and their families. I'm speaking as the person who's fighting for you to execute KZOT, the Code of Labour and the Protection of People's Deputies. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u48	Dear Alexander Mihajlovich, this draft decree does not in any way affect the legitimate right of the national deputy to go on vacation, but here is the convening of the extraordinary session of the Supreme Council, and we know that this practice in the work of the Supreme Council has already been done. And I don't think the removal, let's say, from a vacation for a certain day to work in a higher legislature would mean a violation of the MP's right to rest. [[B in m in s a l in]] ) Yes. Well, what's the number? I called the numbers. Yes, Catherine Seed, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u49	Wait, I give Catherine the word of Seminal, not you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u50	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u51	Please, Samuel. Questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u52	Thank you. Thank you very much. I want to ask you, Ivan Sidorovich, a question. I don't want to speak for the spirit of the Constitution anymore -- don't let the Lord God come to us -- I mean, is your determination in accordance with the Constitution you're proposing? It is vital that we not be afraid then. And what Alexander Mikolayovich said, I support. Because, for example, I watched, every morning at half-eighth, I went to work, and Grigorovich was walking the dog; I was going to work, and she was walking at the expense of her own dogs, and he was right. We've got work to do, we've got vacations to do, but that's not what's important to us. Alexander Mikolaiovich, I think we have learned to work so much this year, that we will continue to work. And what's more, we have to work in the districts because we worked more in the session room.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u53	Actually, Catherine Seminovna, I think you've answered your own question by 95 percent. And the episode, especially with the dog, is also very typical of me, let's say, like, a good one. I don't think we're breaking the Constitution in any way because we've been working with you, let's say, without a break, we've actually been doing a lot every week -- how much already? - Actually, three months. And we did everything we had to do, let's say, in constitutional terms, finish in mid-July.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u54	Please make your question more clear. Because there's something about a state dog that I didn't understand how you put it. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u55	Thank you. Dear John Sidorovich, I don't think the national MPs have understood exactly when today's session actually ends. You argued the closing of the session on June 27th that the 16th session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly would be held here, in the premises of the Supreme Council, from July 5 to 7. Yes, there is logic. But why don't we officially close this session on July 10th: after the Parliamentary Assembly, Parliamentary, I'm sorry, OSCE. This would be a logical closure of the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What's more, with the calendar plan, you and I were planning to close it on July 13th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u56	John Sidorovich, since this issue was discussed on the Conciliation Council today literally, after learning all the circumstances and details, the factions agreed that this was optimal in connection with the need for and work in the districts, factions, committees, and the need for quality preparation and completion of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. That is why this is taken into account. Please, no more questions? I'm voting on the draft regulation on this issue, please 3698. [[11:24:36]] For 260 Decision taken. I have an amendment to the first paragraph, to write: “as soon as” where the words “as soon as the work is finished” – “as soon as the completion date has been set,” should be inserted. In parentheses take the digit "from the 20th to the 20th," in parentheses "from the 20th to the 26th of June," that means inclusive, that's clearly going to be for. Of course, for those who use this document. And in the second paragraph, between the opening day of the opening of the second session of the Supreme Council of the Fifth Council, there will be an extraordinary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, in accordance with article 83 of the Constitution of Ukraine. There's an order written down, as it's done. Is it possible to vote on such amendments? These are editorial clarifications that link the document to the text of the Constitution. Is there no objection? I'll bet the vote on this final draft ruling as a document like the Supreme Council's decree. [[11:25:53]] For 258. Decision taken. A draft law, registration number, 3471, on amending certain legislative acts on audit matters is under consideration. Report to the Deputy Minister of Finance. Is she there? Tetjana Ivanovna's jefimenko. Please. Then I have such an offer. Alexander Mikolaiovich can report now? 3516 number. Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the organization of statistical observations. Reported to the head of the State Committee of Statistics, Osaulenko Alexander Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u57	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill has been prepared according to the government's strategy for the development of state statistics for the period up to 2008 and the action plan “Ukraine-EU”. The purpose of the draft law is to further improve national legislation in the field of statistics and to adapt it to European Union standards. The bill provides for amendments to the laws on state statistics, taxes on income from natural persons, and the Code of Masters of Ukraine. Amendments to the National Statistics Act, which is proposed, are primarily aimed at improving the legal regulation of the relations between public statistics authorities and respondents or, in other words, reporting subjects and users of data. They also foresee further improvement in statistical methodology, development of legal frameworks for planning statistical activities, and so forth. These changes are made with the aim of introducing the State Statistics Act, conforming to international legal standards in this field, in particular to the model Statistics Act, developed by Eurostat. Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Income Tax are based on the need for citizens to be encouraged to participate in selective statistical surveys as natural persons respondents. To this end, it is proposed not to include in the total monthly or annual tax income payments received by citizens in the form of sub-money compensation for such participation. In addition, editorial clarifications and additions to the Ukrainian Code of Masters are envisaged to ensure the fullness of statistics and to improve the reliability of information, as part of the definition of respondents to statistical observations. In particular, for obtaining and developing statistics in the territorial section, order is established for separate branches of legal persons, accounting, and statistical reporting. The adoption of the proposed bill will help to better meet the information needs of the State and society, improve the interaction between all subjects of state statistics and further harmonise national legislation with EU legislation. A request for support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u58	What questions to the reporter? Jaroslav Suhi, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u59	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Alexander Grigorovich! The motivation and reasoning of the changes has been fully understood, but please tell us what to explain to the local budgets, you are amending the Income Tax Act so as not to tax the income of individuals who have been paid in the form of sums of monetary compensation to establish what to do with these tests and so on. You've calculated the amount of the underexpenditure, the underexpenditure of local budgets, even though we know it's small amounts, but still on the scale of Ukraine. And in general, why does this bill all of a sudden show tax benefits when it's supposed to be about something else?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. This is a really principled question, and it has been discussed in detail with both the Supreme Council and the Ministry of Finance. The total amount of the benefits, as they rightly said, is about 370,000 dollars per country. So on the one hand, 370,000 revenue is spent on the budget, but on the other hand, how small the payments are, about 40 or 50 dollars to the citizens. If we still take taxes from them, let's say, citizens aren't interested in revealing their information at all, we love the ways that are available to us, we encourage that participation. And here, you see, from that meager income, compensation is still taxed. So in terms of national interests, we think it's more important in this case to decide as we suggest. If we raise the bill, the budget will lose more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u61	There are no more questions. Have a seat, please. Vasil Ivanovich Evtuhov of the Committee on Economic Policy has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u62	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Economic Policy has considered a draft Ukrainian Act amending Ukraine's legislative acts on the organisation of statistical observations. Registration number 3516. The purpose of the bill is to improve the legal and regulatory framework for statistical activities in order to better meet the information needs of the state and society. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of this law in the first reading. This is in line with the proposals made by the Chief Executive of the Supreme Council. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u63	Is there a question for Vasil Ivanovich? You can put to the vote a draft decree on the adoption of this draft law on the basis of the first reading. I'm putting this ruling to the vote. Please. [[11:33:09]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. I have already announced a draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on auditing. The word is given by the Deputy Finance Minister, Jephimenko Tetjana Ivanovna. Registration number 3471. Alexander Ivanovich. You turn some deputies around, yeah. Please sit down, Aunt Ivanovna Jefimenko speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u64	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Government of Ukraine has developed a draft Ukrainian Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on auditing to implement Chapter 7 of the Final Provisions of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing. Amendments to the Ukrainian Act “On Auditing Activities” were adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September 2006. They were designed for the purpose of adapting Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation in accordance with the Law of Ukraine on a national programme for the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. This process in accounting and auditing is increasing due to the expansion of the European Union and Ukraine’s desire to create a favourable investment climate. The purpose of the bill is to bring into line with the terminology applied in the legislative acts for the conduct of audit activities with the terminology of the new edition of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing Activities, as well as the introduction of standards that provide for the creation of a level playing field for the provision of audit services to audiences and audit firms. Such changes will improve the quality of the results of audit activities in Ukraine. The adoption of the above-mentioned project will allow for the harmonization of the terminology used in legislative acts and will ensure the removal of legislative commissions in the field of auditing. The adoption of the project does not require additional expenditure from government or local budgets. Ukraine's draft law amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts on audit activities does not affect the income and expenditure of budgets. I ask that you approve and support the proposal for the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u65	What question does the Tetian of Ephesians have? To Tetjana Ivanovna? None. You've obviously noticed a professionally prepared draft and clear references to all the bills, legislative acts that need clarification. From the committee – Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please, a thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u66	Dear Alexander Alexandrovic, distinguished colleagues, this bill has been drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on our instructions to you, which we have given by adopting the Audit Act last year. Under the Act, all terminology is in line with the new Audit Act and the issue of the certification of auditors carrying out bank audits is also brought into line. The Committee considered the bill at its meeting and recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading. At the same time, the Committee noted that there were some inaccuracies in the bill that needed to be addressed prior to its adoption on second reading. In particular, article 162 of the Ukrainian Economic Code currently contains a rule that an audit firm or a person associated with a company may not be an auditor. This rule is somehow excluded. In our view, it needs to be preserved, although it needs to be modified, because in any case, the auditor has a contract under which the company pays for the services of the auditor. Article 22 of the Banking and Banking Act should also be amended from the Committee's point of view. The language used here for foreign auditors is not very good. In addition, the Chief Expert Office draws our attention to the need to bring the bill into line with articles 364 and 365 of the Ukrainian Economic Code. Take it easy. Once the bill has been finalized, it can also be adopted on second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u67	Right. Questions to Yuri Mikolaiovich? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Who would like to comment on the possibility or the impossibility of accepting the project? They agree that this is a direct implementation of the decision of the previous Supreme Council commission made by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Committee supporting the draft law for adoption in the first reading, so I'm putting it to a vote, please. Registration number 3471. [[11:38:57]] For the 250. Decision taken. Thank you. The Draft Law on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of Ukraine, registration number 3624, is under consideration. [[on land relations]] Curulenko Svetoslav Sergijovich, the first deputy minister of environmental protection, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u68	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Act amending some of Ukraine's legislative acts aims at eliminating some of the provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Masters, Ukraine's Land Rental Act. The draft Ukrainian Law provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Masters adopted on 16 January 2003 in part of the deletion of the rule on the obligation of notarial certification of the land lease agreement and the amendment of the Ukrainian Land Rental Act. Ukraine's Act of October 2, 2003 "On Land Rent" is presented in a new edition, part 1 of article 14, which stipulates that the land lease contract is made in writing and, at the request of one of the parties, may be certified notary. This edition of article 14 of the Law is valid today. However, part two of article 290 of the master’s code of the Ukraine Code of 16 January 2003 states that the lease of land without a contract entered into in writing is not permitted in writing and registered in accordance with the law. At the same time, article 4 of the Code establishes that land, mining, forest and agreeable relations, relationships with the use of plant and animal protection, areas and natural resources are not subject to the regulation of this code. Ukraine’s master’s code of conduct, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on January 16, 2003, came into force on January 1, 2004. Thus, since the adoption of the Master Code on October 2, 2003, the Land Rental Act has been published in a new edition, which no longer requires notarial certification of land leases. However, no relevant changes have been made to the Codex of the Master. According to part of article 6 of the Ukrainian Land Rental Act, tenants acquire land lease rights on the basis and in accordance with the provisions of the Ukrainian Land Code, the Ukrainian Civil Code, the Ukrainian Master Code, these and other laws of Ukraine and the land lease agreements. In this context, the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Masters need to be amended simultaneously to Article 6 of the Land Rental Act. In view of the above, the Ministry proposes to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u69	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Please, have a seat. Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev, your word from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u70	This bill, I believe, is more progressive in relation to existing legislation, as it provides that the parties will not be obliged to do so, but, at their request, notarize it to go not to certify it of land leases. Therefore, the Committee, when considering the bill, considers that the bill is positive and requires its approval on first reading. At the same time, the Committee drew the attention of the developer, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the fact that there was currently a procedure for registering such contracts, land leases in the State Register in Minusta Ukraine. At present, the special decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine imposes the obligation to register such treaties on notaries and only on no one else. If we adopt this bill in this way, there will be problems with the State registration of such treaties. The Committee therefore recommends that the Supreme Council adopt it on first reading and finalize it until the second reading by addressing the issue of the registration of such treaties in the register.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u71	Is there a question for Yuri Mikolaiovich? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. I want to pay attention to the draft law regulates the legislative system, removes from the Code of Lords what is referred to in other normative documents those articles and there will be no duplication. Therefore, it is essential that we accept it. I ask you to support the draft law and vote on it in the first reading. Please, there's a vote. [[11:44:43]] For 229 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition is under consideration. Melnichenko Alexander Ivanovich, the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u72	Reverend Alexandre Alexandrovich, prominent Ukrainian national deputies! The Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition was adopted in 1996. So it happened that I had to report it to him in this room. The need for changes is due to the need to take into account the experience of applying this law to the Antimonopoly Committee and the courts, as well as changes in legal regulations and economic conditions that have taken place in Ukraine in recent years. Legislation does not effectively combat bad advertising at this time. Therefore, the draft act proposes the definition of unfair competition for the dissemination of information that is misleading. [[This is article 15 with a single badge.]] Reporting such information, for example, may put an advertiser in a more favourable position and give him unwarranted advantages over his competitors. The lower provisions of the bill are aimed at addressing the procedural issues of the bodies of the Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine when dealing with cases of non-lethal competition under the principles already defined by the Ukrainian Law on Protection of Economic Competition. In particular, it is a matter of dealing with such matters and accepting the outcome of the decisions of the subjects of responsibility, to whom the subject of the law will be referred, the length of time, the commitment to responsibility, and the order in which fines will be imposed. The adoption of the proposed changes to the law will enhance the effectiveness of protecting operators and consumers from unfair competition, as well as fostering the principles of fair competition. The bill is supported by a professional committee on economic policy and is generally commended by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposals made by this office will be taken into account when preparing the project for second reading. Please support the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Protection against Unfair Competition and accept it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u73	You have a question. Please, Marmazov Eugene Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u74	Alexander Ivanovich, in this draft law, is proposed to deprive the Antimonopoly Committee of the right to extract counterfeit goods. Do you think that's right? Will this not delay the order and continuation of the offences?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u75	It's not the Antimonopoly Committee's function to confiscate these things. There are other institutions for this. His business is to consider the matter, to stop the infringement, to take steps to prevent it, and to impose appropriate sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u76	Any more questions? Please, Sergey Kuzmanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u77	Thank you. Sergei Kuzmenko, Socialist Party of Ukraine In the development of the issue of Marmazov’s colleague. Then tell me, what is the fate of this counterfeit product? If we leave it with the owner, it is not excluded that it will fall back into the market. So if we're taking away the Antimonopoly Committee of Law, then someone needs to have that right, someone has to take care of it. And there's no way you're going to be able to do this without a piece of legislation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u78	Thank you. There is criminal responsibility, great national MPs, there is criminal responsibility for similar acts, and that's where this question can be settled. It'll be settled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u79	Any more questions? I won't. Have a seat, please. Thank you. What does the committee have to say about this? Vasil Ivanovich Evtukhov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u80	The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers, taking into account the experience gained by the Antimonopoly Committee and the Ukrainian Economic Courts in dealing with specific cases relating to the protection of economic competition, the abuse of their monopoly position by individual producers and the experience of legal regulation of economic activity in a situation where the conditions of economic competition have changed objectively and the very conditions of farming have changed, and the laws that should be harmonized with each other, such as the provisions of the Law on Protection against Unfair Competition, the Law on Protection of Economic Competition and certain provisions on the Antimonopoly Committee. A comparative table of proposed changes to the law in force, honourable colleagues, is given to you. The Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council the proposed draft amendments to the Law on Protection against Unfair Competition in the First Reading and to entrust the Committee of Profiles with its second reading, taking into account the comments to be made by or expressed by the National Deputies. [[Registration number 3626]] The draft decree is given to you. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u81	Is there a question for Vasil Ivanovich? None. Have a seat, please. Who wants to express their thoughts? Pavlov Gnatovich, please. Sulkowski, a nickname that reminds me of who doesn’t remember. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u82	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. You know, this bill, obviously we're going to support it, it's needed in Ukraine today, and here's what it is about. yesterday, just taking advantage of the opportunity of the first deputy head of the Antimonopoly Committee there, questions were asked about the bread situation that occurred today with the price rise in Ukraine and there was a clear harassment of the governing body. On the 5th channel, please tell me, here's the information that's driven by this political force that's leading a combination of agricultural products in Ukraine. And that was understandable. So I would like it to be frank to say and yesterday that the people of Ukraine would hear that this really caused a rise in the price of bread for politicians like BUT. And that's what you have to say straight and square. These populations can only do harm today in Ukraine. And the second. On the TV channel, Alexander Aleksandrovich, you may have heard that “Freedom of speech” itself, the leader of BUT was the first to blame the factions of socialists and especially coalitions for why the law on children of Ukraine, children of war, wars as we rightly call this law, draft law. Why is this law on children of war not being enforced? And it's not true that she just didn't get into Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko's chair, she didn't think first of all about the children of war, it's about the law to be implemented, and she thought about how to write off her own company's debts more than 7 billion dollars. So if this politician hadn't lied to the Ukrainian people about what they were, and they were really fighting for the better life of the Ukrainian people, then this law would have been implemented and 7 billion of these, which was allocated to the State Budget, we could have sent these more than seven billion to this law for Ukraine by now. Therefore, I urge that serious government officials speak directly and frankly about who is guilty of such populist slogans in Ukraine: both at the price of bread and at the expense of others. Thank you. And this law needs to be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u83	Thank you for this valuable information, but I would like to say, Paul Gnatovich, your argument is very far from relevant to this law. True, you said at the end that you were calling for a vote in favour of this law, but, truth is, I was looking at its articles for what this has to do with travelling to bread from opposition, some political power, not yet found. You obviously had something else in mind. Or maybe you've analyzed the project a little bit more. What further reasoning will there be regarding this law? I think you can accept it in the first reading, it's suggested here, on the basis that we accept, so that we can work on the consideration and observations that have already been made here, and the questions have been asked, and in view of the conclusions of the Expert Office. I'm betting on the vote on this project, 3626 of its registration number. [[11:54:52]] For 255 Draft Act amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. First Deputy Minister of Economy Sergey Andriyovich Romanyuk will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u84	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Ukraine's draft Act amending article nine of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies aims to improve the legal basis for the formation of tariffs on goods and services produced and implemented by natural monopolies. In order to prevent the inclusion of unjustified costs and to protect the rights of consumers, including entrepreneurs, from an unjustified increase in tariffs. The draft Law proposes that this be done by amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies, which regulates the right of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and price regulators to impose restrictions on natural monopolies subject to a list of costs unrelated to production. Today, prices, tariffs are shown by regulators, such as the Antimonopoly Committee, on the goods of natural monopolies, to take into account costs that, according to the laws on taxation, relate to gross costs of production and circulation, namely, the sums of hopeless receivables and the deductions to the reserve of questionable debts, the amounts of fines, pennies, volatility, maintenance costs of sociocultural objects, and so on. The specified one leads to the fact that the existing industry’s pricing methodology includes costs unrelated to the production and provision of business, which are consistently shown by regulators in the process of checking. Exclusion of the above-mentioned costs will make it impossible to increase prices and tariffs for monopolists and create conditions for transparent, well-maintained regulation of natural monopolies. In view of the above, please support the draft Law amending article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on Natural Monopolies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u85	Question to the reporter who has it? Thank you, sit down, please. Vasil Ivanovich Evtukhov, from the committee, your opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u86	Dear colleagues, this project is designed by the Cabinet of Ministers. That pricing practices in the field of natural monopolies and the existing legislative framework on these issues are imperfect and opaque, which has become one of the causes of abuse in setting tariffs primarily in the housing and utilities system. Some monopolistic industries do not even establish the specificity of tariff formation for monopolies. Some existing normative acts contain mutually exclusive positions. And some of the norms, for example the accounting position of the section “Expenses” cannot be used at all when tariffing I am a normative document. What is the official letter of Minfin? But the monopolies still refer to these “normatives” by charging anything: fines, pennies, instability, up to a percentage of the credit and loss of water flowing into the ground from rusty pipes. [[in quotes]] This project is the result of long discussions of various departments in the Cabinet itself on the normative tariff restrictions and what to take into account when regulating prices for goods and services of monopolies rather than taking into account. Finally, with the aim of limiting the inefficient costs of natural monopolies, the government made the agreed decision and made it for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The committee considered the draft at its meeting and, despite the individual comments made by committee members, decided to recommend to the national deputies at the session that the bill should be adopted in the first reading in order to enable the committee to further develop these comments and to submit a draft to the second reading in order to pass it through the table. The corresponding draft of the Supreme Council ruling, which coincides with the findings of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, is given to you. The implementation of the law does not require additional costs. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u87	Thank you. Is there a question for Vasil Ivanovich or not? None. I think that his argument, the argument of the reporter, was very convincing about clarifying the costs that natural monopolies can take, consider them as costs, and that they can't go, related to such a category. If they are desirable, please make a statement. Paul Gnatovitch and Sergey Matvienkov. Please, Sulkovsky, Matvienkov and Marmazov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u88	Thank you. This bill really needs to be supported. Clearly, it needs to be worked out to some extent because there are many suggestions. And, I think by the second reading he'll have worked out. But? Starting from what I call to vote for him, because, you know, this political power that today calls itself the so-called opposition led by Julia Timoshenko, when prices of utilities went directly to Western Ukraine and began with its political power and in district councils and city councils to provoke prices that should be raised. And you know that many councils have raised prices, and then, on the other hand, there's a lot of insolence, and you start saying that this is a government, and that's what Parliament is guilty of is starting to raise prices for the population. That's why I think this bill is going to hold back populists like Julia Timoshenko and others, who are doing nothing but harm in Ukraine and the people of Ukraine. We should vote in favour of this bill and give this law to politicians such as Yulja Timoshenko, Viacheslav Kirilenko and many others, as they say, what you voted in favour of such draft law and the President's veto on the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and Viacheslav Kirilenko says, you know, we're not telling you who you were yesterday, we're telling you who you are today. That's very good, yesterday, yesterday, the people were harmed that today it takes years to correct the government all the problems they've brought up for this practically 2005-2006 and continue to go and lie about Ukraine today that they're so concerned about the Ukrainian people. So I think we should, the national MPs, vote in favour of these draft laws. We have adopted many laws that are beautiful, where President Viktor Yushchenko today sees that they must be signed, because today the people themselves will no longer be able to stand if the President blocks only our draft laws, which, indeed, are in favor of the lives of the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u89	Thank you. This was by Paul Gnatovich Sulkowski, I repeat. Sergey Matvienko has the floor, please. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u90	Matvienkov, Socialist faction. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, the issue under consideration is very serious and the problem raised therein is very painful, especially for industry. Around the world, almost public monopolies are used as an incentive mechanism for the development of sectors of the economy. With the help of State monopolies, they push towards the development of certain industries, certain directions. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have developed a system or a bad practice where State monopolies use either as a drill in the State budget or as a pressure mechanism for industries, free or free from industrial activity. And for industry, once again, I stress, this is one of the sick ones who has long matured and has long matured. I think that this law needs to be adopted in first reading and supplemented in order to look at the complex. We still need to change to have a clear idea of what the State monopoly is, which it extends to. Today, it is assumed that many gas companies, many gas structures do not have, do not fall within the structure of a gas monopoly, the return of State monopolies, and by itself, we are in a very serious situation. These are all the so-called layers that we have, there's $10 per gas price, there's $2 per gas price, and there's actually a $135 gas purchase at the border, there's 190 in industrial enterprises today. And an industrial enterprise has been forced to carry on its hill by incomprehensible structures to meet whose needs are incomprehensible, avoiding such an important cost and price of goods that go into someone's pockets. This is one moment. Second, the process itself of increasing the price of the same gas. From the first issue, a decision was taken to increase the price of the gas by $4, justifying that the value should compensate for the gas in the gas warehouses. We are asking a logical question, and what was the cost of the activities of these enterprises without a gas-supply mechanism? Why should this issue be on the hands of the consumer? Today, large industrial enterprises, including Ilica's combination, are sending telegrams every day in a literal sense: “We are leaving, we are stopping the supply of gas!” There's a general misunderstanding. The enterprise pays a steady price at the prices that are in the contract, but it pays, and today it is reduced to zero by the supply of gas. Therefore, this bill is needed today more than ever, more than ever. Therefore, it must be accepted on first reading, logically completed and done: working for the whole industry, working for the whole country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u91	Thank you, I think you've done well with Pavel Gnatovich. The word is Eugen Vasilovich Marmazov, please, and then Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u92	First of all, it must be said that the draft law is introduced by the Government and the Government really understands that it is a very necessary law. But the draft law amends the pricing of goods and natural monopolies. In particular, it is proposed not to include in the price of natural monopolies products the amount of hopeless receivables, the amount of fines recognized, the penalty of non-sustainability, the amount of shortfalls and so on. This is, in principle, correct that it is not taken into account and is consistent with the Price and Price Act. Moreover, the cost of products from natural monopolies has indeed played a crucial role in social affairs. What's the price of gas? This is where my colleague told me. What is the price of electricity? It's for the oil products, for the water, for the heat. What is the price of rail transport, rail transport and so on? The lower it is, the better for our people. That is why I believe that this law must be adopted on first reading, that it is really very valuable, and that it needs to be refined into second reading. There's no time left. I'm asking you to pass on the word of Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u93	Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna, she can use her time, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u94	It doesn't matter. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. You know, it's a very good bill, it's continuing the policy that our Supreme Council has adopted: a policy to address prices and tariffs. The most important question is the validity of these prices and tariffs. And much of this justification was due to the fact that these payments were made at cost, those costs which had nothing to do with the real quality, or the services that were provided to the population. I mean, housing-communal tariffs. Here I have encountered that housing-communal enterprises, which are natural monopolies, have a social and cultural sphere. That's good, but why does it pay the poor people of the city who don't benefit from it, these socio-cultural institutions? Why were debts made? Enterprises took loans from banks. These loans could not be recovered again, but these debts were again at cost and again paid by the poorer population. I therefore believe that the Government, by continuing the policy that is based here in our Parliament, on public price and tariff regulation and, in particular, on natural monopolies, which include housing and utilities, should therefore be adopted on first reading. I would like to take a closer look, and I support colleagues who spoke before me and talked about how to price gas. This is a question that concerns the entire economy of Ukraine, which concerns the material situation of all Ukrainian citizens, and therefore needs to be very carefully addressed with regard to the development of gas prices and electricity prices. I therefore propose to support this bill on first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u95	Thank you. Members of the committee who worked specifically on this document and demonstrated their real advantages took part in the discussion. So I have every reason to put a draft ruling on this vote on the basis of the first reading of this bill. [[Registration number 3633]] Please, there's a vote. [[12:10:00]] For 249 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, before we announce a recess, I would like to address you with such words. Over the past two months, we have received more than thirty bills to amend the Law on Public Procurement and Services. At all the meetings we had at that time, I had about six meetings in the areas with the heads of local governments and not only. There were requests everywhere for amendments to this law to expedite and simplify the procedure for tendering and purchasing at public expense. The issue is extremely important, a working group led by Alexander Mikolayovich Tkachenko worked on the drafts and agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers. I mean, this is a common position for both the Cabinet of Ministers and our working group of MPs. And I would ask you to consider this law after a break. Now he's giving you the services to see what the change is all about. And I hope that when we arrived at the meeting after the break at 12:45 p.m., we could adopt these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u96	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. We'll continue the meeting. The draft Act on the purchase of goods and services for public funds was distributed in a session hall? Yeah, I mean, we got it. As we agreed, we have to listen to this bill after a break. We'd have to put it in the agenda, but let's listen to the draft Act amending some of Ukraine's laws on how long insurance claims are met if the insurance policy is eliminated. [[Registration number 3638]] Reported to the head of the State Commission for Market Regulation, financial services of Aloshin Valeri Borisovich, prepare for Voropeyeva. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on the continuity of compliance with insurance requirements in the event of the liquidation of insurers has been developed to implement a national programme for the adoption of Ukrainian legislation before the legislation of the European Union. The aim of the project is to improve legislation in part of meeting insurance requirements when the insurance policy is eliminated. Not in the fourth row, as now, but in the first row and in the first row, in order to meet the requirements of first row insurers for insurance contracts. The introduction of changes to legislation is prompted by the need to establish the most effective procedure for meeting such requirements and the need to take international experience into account. To date, European legislation establishes the need to ensure that Member States prefer insurance requirements over other insurance requirements in the event of their liquidation. The adoption of such a bill would ensure the protection of the rights of insurers. It is an important complement to the current insurance system in Ukraine. Since the insurer, as a consumer of insurance services and as a priority entity, needs the primary protection of his property interests and the guarantee of the return of his insurance contributions. The draft law provides for amendments to Ukraine’s laws on the recovery or recognition of the debtor by bankruptcy and insurance. To my conviction, the government's draft law will allow, on the one hand, to harmonize Ukrainian legislation with the requirements of European directives, on the other hand, to implement the concept of consumer protection of financial services, which the State Commission is actively working on in regulating financial services markets and other executive authorities. Request to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u98	Are you done? Please, is there a question? Sign up if you have one. None. Have a seat, please. Yeah, who do we have? Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev. Please. Valery Borisovich, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! This bill has been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy. Meeting on 13 June this year. The Committee recommends that the bill be adopted on first reading. At the same time, the Committee points out that there are some inaccuracies in the bill that need to be clarified in the second reading. In particular, it is important that not all changes are necessary. It is also necessary to amend article 112 of the Ukrainian Civil Code, which also determines the priority of meeting the creditor's requirements.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u100	Are there no questions? No, okay, sit down, Yuri Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u101	The first reader to accept it and then to finish it on the second reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u102	Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Yes, Bondarchuk, please. Microphone from Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Despite the substantial remarks made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, I propose to support this bill and vote for it in the first reading, because it impresses the general concept, whether it is a major concept, is to increase the responsibility for the return of insurance. Because we know that today, 15 years have passed since the collapse of the Soviet Union, but we still have a huge debt to the insurers on the line of the former Ukredjstricht, because there has not been a fixed order of payment of these insurance payments, etc. So there is a proposal to support this bill. The underlying progressive line is to increase the responsibility of those involved in insurance for the reimbursement of insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u104	Thank you. There are no more willing to share in the discussion, so we will be determined. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine regarding the continuity of the satisfaction of insurers when the insurance policy is eliminated. [[Registration number 3638]] Please vote. [[12:54:28]] For 229 The decision was taken in the first reading. Yes, dear colleagues, once again I stress, as we have agreed before the announcement of the recess, that we will need to include in the agenda and consider Bill 35540d, this is the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. Although there are several dozen bills, the working group, which was created under the guidance of our colleague Tuckenka, generalized them and brought them together, in fact, all the proposals to a single bill. If we look at all 27 or 28, it is clear that one day we are not enough, and more than that, some of these bills are no longer bills, because they have been introduced by legislators who are no longer such, or former national deputies. So let's take a look at this generalization, generalization, and put a dot on the long discussions about this issue, which is quite a concern for society. First of all, those who have to deal with it. I am voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of Bill 3554-d, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda, in the agenda, we vote. [[12:56:16]] For 203 By factions, please: Region Party - 162, Socialists - 2, Block Timoshenko - 9, Communists - 20, Our Ukraine - 0, non-fractional - 10. Please register with the factions on the basis of the vote. Please. Quiet, quiet. Sign up for factions -- what motives. Yeah, one minute at a time. Please, Schmyr is a socialist.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u105	Adam Ivanovich, it's me. Switch to Danilino.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u106	All right, let's break it up, close our eyes. Danieline, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u107	Yeah. Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, Nikolai Dinilin, Soccer faction, Kiev. The point is, I looked at those general comments and additions, and I was one of those who was just making changes about the tendering and tendering for diplomas, students and everything else. It turns out that five million bracelets have been taken out of the budget money for all these procedures and that my changes were just about to save for the colleges and for the state, and I see that this is where I just got, absolutely no change, nothing is taken into account and nothing is taken into account, so the question is, if the working group was working, why did not make a table on all the proposals that were made and not recorded is not taken into account. And in this situation, it is completely unclear. I mean, some individual moments are taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u108	Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Well, surely we all know that we need to improve this system and this law. Indeed, we are told everywhere about what is going on. Such approaches cannot be tolerated. But, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to make it clear to myself what is the purpose of adopting this law. Or really out of procedure. To simplify the procedure for both budgetary organizations and our enterprises, and so forth, so that there is no such, difficult procedure. Is this simply a change in spheres of influence? This is what worries us most. We agree to vote in favour of the law of Ukraine, but if the main objective of simplifying the procedure is to be sustained, then, of course, I think we will win 300 votes with you. So, indeed, we have a question about this law not taking into account the proposals and other Ukrainian national MPs who have already passed the bills, they have not all been considered. The committee, too, did not consider the bill for any reason.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u110	Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u111	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, indeed, when the bill was passed, was a sacred goal of improving the efficiency and rational use of the budget. And, well, what was good on paper, when the test was done in practice, showed a whole series of, say, disadvantages in this law. And when we went to the district, I think all the people's deputies received the highest number of questions under this law: what had been cut short and virtually no budget money had been spent could not be purchased and so on, and so on. Therefore, out of the 30 draft amendments that Alexander Nikolajevic and his group have passed, I think we need to adopt this bill, and make substantial changes to this law, so that it is indeed working for the purpose for which it was adopted: to improve the efficiency and rational use of the budget and to reduce the bureaucracy of this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u112	Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u113	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The more scarce the budget, the more the funds are drawn from it. It is an unwritten law of nature that exists today. The baton consists of two sides: on the one hand, we need to establish a clear, normal procedure in which we control the use of budgetary resources, but this procedure must be transparent, clear and understandable to all, but on the other hand, we must close the gate to trigger these budgetary funds. The very approach: why we did not vote in favour of inclusion in the agenda. We've just been handed a hot bill. We've been talking about this for, like, two weeks. We don't mind keeping things in order here. How? What kind of bill is this? Did our drafts come in? How will it work itself? I understand that in order for the law in the State to work, at least it would have to be reviewed, examined how it would be linked to the work of our local authorities. How will it affect the procedure for monitoring the use of budgetary resources? If we're just going to push the buttons, it's not the right way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u114	Mother, please. Hello, Mother, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u115	Adam Ivanovich, from the very beginning, when we adopted this law, we confused government and nonstate money. Never was the money of a state - owned enterprise. It is the money of the owners and is marked by the fact that the struggle goes on with the businesses of all those who have been combined with the budget and continue to do so. So first of all, we have to exclude state funds from this law, like state-owned enterprises, they're non-state funds, and they've never been, even during the Soviet Union. This is the money of the landowners. Once we've ruled it out, all the money. Which are in the state, they're going to start working. I can give you an example, today, there's a stop to the car construction plant, because no one's selling them a complete set, because it's not convenient to apply for competitions, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u116	Yeah, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u117	I suggested this from the very beginning, and the story that went on now, these months across the country, showed that we have done a great deal of damage to Ukrainian businesses. And we keep doing that. It's a major question, not how to buy forms, or discovery, or anything else, or party, or cars. We need to free production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u118	Thank you. Honorable colleagues, each member of the faction who signed up, had the opportunity to speak. But once again, each of you is absolutely right. I'd like to ask, let's vote on the inclusion of this bill in the agenda, and then when we consider the matter essentially when we listen to the reporter, when we ask him a question, when we might ask the government representatives questions, if they are, when we discuss it, then we'll be more conscious about what we're talking about. I agree with Matvienkov that he just came into your hands. What's more, as it were, listening will be an opportunity to stand by, see what changes are being proposed there, and we will approach consciously the definition of the fate of this bill. So I suggest we go back to voting on this bill to put it into the agenda and look at it. Who's in favour of getting back to the vote, please vote. We're voting friendlyly. [[13:05:06]] For 248 We're back. I now put to the vote the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of Bill 3554-d, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds. Please vote. [[13:05:39]] For 259. Decision taken. Then, Mikola Janovich, Tkachenko? Please, from the working group, the leader of the working group is Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich. Please, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u119	Dear colleagues, the draft of the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at State expense, has been prepared by the Working Group on improving legislation on public procurement, regulation of the public procurement market and other related issues for the performance of the functions and tasks ordered by the Head of the Supreme Council since 18.01 this year. The bill is based on more than 27 of the 32 bills submitted to the Supreme Council for consideration by various legislators and takes into account most of the proposals that have been made. The bill is the only piece of legislation agreed upon in this area of legal regulation. The adoption of a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services at the expense of state resources is related to the need to improve the public procurement system, to address the relevant issues that arise in the implementation of its provisions, to introduce more favourable conditions for public procurement procedures, to balance the public and public control system in this area, to increase the level of efficient and rational use of public funds when purchasing goods, jobs and services. The aim of the bill is to adopt rules aimed at ensuring an effective level of functioning of the public procurement system and overcoming certain negative developments in this area, which will ensure the efficient and efficient use of public funds in Ukraine. The purpose and purpose of the draft bill is to create appropriate legislative principles for the procurement of goods. The bill provides for amendments to the Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services, in particular the repeal of the rules that confer upon the Ukrainian Chamber of Commerce administrative functions. An increase in the lower value limits under which public funds managers should apply the procurement procedures provided for in the Ukrainian State Procurement Act. Exclusion from the text of the law on the purchase of jobs and services at the public expense of the rules on the procedure for the registration of the parties to the proceedings was article 16 of the Prime Act, on the purchase of goods, jobs and services. An increase in the number of items purchased that are not covered by the law. Improving the procurement mechanism on the basis of the interfaith coordination group, clarifying the rules on identification, related persons, article 7 of the Law on State Employment and Services. Reducing the minimum required number of bidders needed to conduct the three - to - two trades. Improving the order of prosecution of decisions or the inactivity of the sellers. The introduction of this law does not require additional expenditure from state and local budgets; it will contribute to the economic and rational use of public funds. In this area of regulation are the Code of Budgets of Ukraine, the Code of Masters of Ukraine, the Law of Ukraine on the purchase of goods and services at State expense and a number of other legislative acts. Prognosis of socio-economic indicators and other consequences of the law. The adoption of the law will be positively reflected in the general state of the public procurement system, ensuring a strong legal framework for efficient rational and economic use of public funds in public procurement procedures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u120	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Please, Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u121	Alexander Nikolaevich, I would still like to hear the answer to the question posed by colleague Mike. Special public enterprises, nuclear power plants, enterprises that work primarily to ensure the safety of nuclear energy itself and in general, as the parties are called, are the “hosting entities”. They are managed by the State, managed by the Ministry, but served by enterprises that are exclusive. Why we still don't share public funds, that's budget money and money that is managed through public enterprises, that's different money. Please answer why the commission refused.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u122	Thank you. It's a question of order. The budget is somewhere within 75 billion public procurement budgets. Private enterprises have between 120 billion and 150 billion. The question is, Mike's rights are more specific, and you're right. If enterprises are 100 per cent public, it is one question. But if part of the enterprises, and much more of the State's property, which has become property of private persons today, I repeat, twice as much capital as in public enterprises as the funds allocated by the budget. And let's try to divide the capital that we let the State have 51 per cent, private capital there 49 per cent. How to separate it and why to put public enterprises and private capital in one position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u123	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u124	I therefore believe that the Commission has come to such a conclusion that it is not appropriate to withdraw from the control of the tender.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u125	Danieline.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u126	Danilin Nikolai, faction of the Socialist Party, city of Kiev. Alexander Nikolayevich, I'd like to clarify. That is the essence of my proposal, it was that one enterprise was making forms for the education system. The documents offer visas to conduct this before the purchase of all the solicitation documents spends 5 million dollars of government money. Nevertheless, in the conduct of tenders, whichever participant does not participate, the order is to be made again to the enterprise which has the right to do so. Say, here's what you're proposing right now, which is done by the working group, there's a mechanism that removes these absolutely unnecessary things, the games that are going on to take away government money simply to prepare the solicitation documentation. Well, that's ridiculous. It turns out that from one pocket of the State we take out and pretend that no one sees it. A mechanism.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u127	The question is very correct and we have not had a single case in which we have not studied it when we were before the interdepartmental commission. The Working Interdepartmental Commission has all these issues, but we are saying that this bill should undoubtedly be amended. The question is correct.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u128	Samuel Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich is honorable, of course we see that this law, some little piece of work, we will speak more honestly about improving the existing law. But I'm just impressed by the approaches that we're showing everyone right now. In a successful way, in about ten minutes, this bill is a bill that everyone who would really like to study and make their own proposals, fairly substantial proposals, we were given this bill ten minutes before the beginning. This is simply disrespect for the national deputies of Ukraine. But I'd like to know, please tell me, why isn't this bill considered on a profile committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u130	Thank you. Indeed, this bill was not considered on a profiling committee, since the head and deputy have given mandates today, and the first deputy has been sick for two weeks. This is what I understand, this is certainly the right question and it goes with breaking the Rules, there are no questions. But I must tell you, dear fellows, one thing. Since 2000, this is the eleventh bill. In seven or six and a half years, we're looking at the data we're talking about. Question 11 of the bill and everyone wants to bring it under their own control, under their own vision, under their own authority, under their own role and place to manage the funds. So I think it's going to please everyone, but it doesn't. We're in VAT with you, they say, every month we're looking at one of the amendments, and the law's been in force for 15 years. This law certainly worked, and the law, which was, entered into force on March 11, he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u131	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u132	After 2.5 years, we are changing the bill today because it is certainly impossible to please everyone. And if the government changes tomorrow, believe me, this law will be obeyed again in this rostrum, because they will be thrown into those visions and needs that will govern the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u133	We're just changing, not in 2.5 years, in 2.5 months. Yeah. Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u134	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear Alexander Alexander, from what I've heard, all colleagues who ask questions and express their position confirm the need for the adoption of this law. I'd like to confirm that. But at the same time, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in all previous versions of this law there was a 6th article that gave certain preferences for purchasing services during a supply of services that provide enterprises for disabled people's organizations. The thing is, we create jobs for people with disabilities, we create businesses for people with disabilities, and we can't protect them because of the possibility of getting some preference during the tender. If there's no article 6 in this law, we're actually shutting down enterprises of disabled people's organizations. How do you feel about this?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u135	I'm totally positive. But I have to tell you, dear friends, when one bill of 32 is being made, you realize that you can't count everything, but when out of the 17 members of the working group, 4.5 people come to the meeting. And I would like everyone to take into account, of course, the suggestions and so forth, there are no questions. And whether I'm the head of the task force or another, we can't be the dock. As they say, it's all about getting everything covered. And the question is multifaceted. Absolutely a law that doesn't even have any boundaries. So I think this is the question that you've raised, believe me, it needs to be taken into account and, I think we'll take it into account if we ask him today to accept it in the first reading, and then to the second reading to work on the comments and suggestions that will be made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u136	Mother Vitaly, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u137	Alexander Mikolayovich, I don't understand. What kind of budget did you say is 70 million in state-owned enterprises? Is this about buying a kit or something?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u138	It's in the budget. 74 or 75 billion for government jobs and services. Work and services. That's how much. And I said in the second place that private businesses are about two and a half, they have three times the amount. And so if they want to get them out of the control of the law, I think it's not going to be state policy. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u139	Yes, thank you, Alexander Mikolaiovich, sit down, please. Alexander Mikolaiovich reported both from the working group and from the committee to which he is a member. Because, in fact, the working group was made up of representatives and committees and others in order to respond more quickly to these issues, as you know, the committee’s head is no longer a national deputy and therefore cannot convene a meeting. Is there a desire to share in the discussion? Please log in from factions. Yes, individually, who wants it? Please, Danieline. It's a microphone. I'm getting Bronnikov ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u140	Nikolai Danilin, Socialist Party of Ukraine, city of Kiev. Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues! As I have already said, with regard to the situation surrounding tender procurement, of course, everyone here and those who deal with these issues understand that changes must be made. Why? Because this inhibits real work, this is particularly a deterrent to what is related to the productive sphere. However, I wish to say that of the 28 amendments or bills that have been tabled here by the people's deputies, the main mass of comments has not been taken into account. On this basis, our faction of the Socialist Party and my view as a people's MP: in order to work on the bill, it must be voted on first reading in order for all who consider it necessary to submit their comments, additions and changes that will have to be processed and then adopted as a bill on second reading. Otherwise, we'll have to work and look at it for 10 minutes at a time. And when I asked Alexander Nikolaevich what. Well, I didn't at least get an answer yet the established mechanism is one that will remove the shortcomings that are present today. At least I didn't hear a positive answer. Accordingly, there is a need to adopt the bill on first reading and then to finalize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u141	Thank you. Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u142	Bronnikov, Ukrainian faction, Zaporozhye. No, we really need this bill. I am confident that the whole faction will vote in favour of the first reading of this bill. Recently, we have often heard strong criticisms of the current procurement system from Prime Minister Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, from Nikolay Janović Azarov, who is here, and few have praised this procurement system as an economical public budget. I would like to draw attention, and this has not reflected, in my view, in the law, the regulation of procurement for natural monopolies primarily active in the field of energy. Energy is the life support of every person, every enterprise. And disruptions in the elimination of energy failures, energy disruptions are expensive for the public economy. However, energy was not given the right to immediately engage in purchases to deal with the consequences. Energy does not have the right to purchase, for example, spare parts from the sole manufacturer in Ukraine, for example, the Kharkiv turbine plant. It's imperative to announce a tender and find brokers who will buy something similar to the details that are needed for a reliable energy supply. Therefore, the Government of Natural Monopolies has long begun to regulate, and there is a special commission, the National Energy Regulatory Commission, which regulates both the procedure and the cost of these procurements. I very much hope that the Government, which was established in this room precisely to manage public money, the State budget, will be fully responsible for regulating the public procurement system, without attracting social organizations here, is a matter of the Power and there is a Government in the Power. On first reading, the law should be adopted and finalized in the light of the views expressed in the Hall, of the discussions held by the working committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u143	Please, Chechetov, follow him, Mother.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u144	Dearly respected friends, I repeat that when the bill was originally written, it seemed almost ideal: it had to solve one of the main problems: it was to improve the efficiency and rational use of the budget. But implementation has shown a number of shortcomings in this law and, above all, the procedure has been bureaucraticized so that so far the meagre amount of budget has only been spent on State purchases. The mass of complaints comes from various parts of Ukraine, from different regions, cities, areas of the people's deputies, to executive power, and therefore, as a response, natural response — something that occurred almost in 28, some 30 bills aimed at amending this basic law to actually achieve its main objective, and what I repeat is that the Alexander Nikolaevich Commission, a group of people who have called such a huge burden on their shoulders to finalize these 20 laws, has come up with a unified bill of amendments that will indeed make serious changes to the bill and bring the bill closer to the main goal of achieving the goal of improving efficiency, rationalising the use of budgetary resources. I'll tell you another trailer. You may have heard the head of the Balogee Secretariat respond to these changes. He said: yes, indeed, the changes are good, but we will not accept them now, Parliament will not accept them, let the next Parliament adopt them. It is clear that the President's Secretariat is working in principle: the worse for the country, the better for them. This is true: if we withdraw, today we will not accept this bill in its first and final form as a whole, it may delay the process of introducing it for several months, and the economy will suffer as well, first of all, the regions, the local authorities, first of all, our people. That is why I propose that the bill be adopted both on first reading and, in general, that it be put in place and put into effect. Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u145	Mother, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u146	Vitaly Mike, Party of Industrialists, Entrepreneurs. I spoke three times in this rostrum and said that this law had one. One of the disadvantages is the shortage of government funds, budget funds with the costs of economic operators, businesses. Neither in Soviet times nor in any country is the cost of state - owned enterprises. And those conversations that lose control of 75 billion, you have to do something different. Every purchase we make in our pocket can also be a tender. A woman comes to the commission and asks -- maybe she can't buy it or she can't. You can imagine, I had 100,000 appointments in one factory, 100,000 required permits. Well, let's say it's not 100,000, it's 10,000. Today, the Darnicki car factory cannot buy foundry products just because no one wants to buy them for tenders, they buy everything without tenders. And the state firm stands there with orders. And hundreds of these factories. That's why I think. First. Part 1 of Chapter 1 of the third paragraph should be deleted and all costs where the wording “costs of public enterprises” is used should be excluded. Without this, we will consider this law a thousand times. One thing — stamps, envelopes, parties, cars, the other — is every day a business. I'm asking all the deputies, understand, the authorities, first of all, should not interfere with the work. This law is full of businesses, and it doesn't give anything except for those who control it. That's why I'm asking you: the law can, if you exclude it, the law can and should be adopted today as a whole -- and end these torments of every enterprise in the country. You can take it as a whole if you rule it out. And I'm making this proposal: to exclude the points I said and to adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u147	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over. I'm asking the first Deputy Minister of Finance of Kopilov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u148	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs! When we worked in the working group on the proposed draft of the bill, unfortunately, there was another issue that was not included in what you received today. In order to address this issue, officials of the local authorities have constantly turned to the Cabinet of Ministers. What it means is that today we have the possibility, in the law prescribed, of interagency cooperation in some or other purchases involving several subjects. With the same proposal, "regionals" came out: let's say three districts want to make one purchase, they can unite, and not to do more than one procedure, do one procedure by pooling their funds and doing, well, one tender. So, for example, there's buying, let's say coal. Three areas have been merged and purchased into all three areas to provide fuel for the population. Therefore, we would like to propose in the article the first in the paragraph. the first part of paragraph 25, after the words “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine”, add: “if the purchase is made at the expense of the State budget of Ukraine or the State institution, the organization or the enterprise designated by the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea if the purchase is made at the expense of the budget of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, or the authorities of local self-government if the purchase is made at the expense of local budgets”. So we've been able to do interdisciplinary cooperation not only at the state level, but also at the regional level. This will not ruin anything, and it leaves competition rules behind. I'd like to support that supplement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u149	Yes, Your Honor, the discussion is over. Questions to Kapilov? Well, it's not a reporter, it was just a proposition, so to speak. [[B in m in s a l in]] Now, now, wait. Let's do it this way. Now we're going to vote on the basis, and then we're going to vote on the proposals. Yes, I'll put it to a vote. Although, let's do even better. Then let's write down who wants to discuss this proposal made by the prime minister, so that we can immediately vote with this proposal. If desired, please register in a minute from the factions. And we'll make your offer, we'll put it all together. Well, you can't do it without Sulkowski. Please, Paul Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u150	Adam Ivanovich, I don't mind giving you the word if you want to speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u151	No, I don't have your transmission. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u152	Well, please. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we've discussed a lot about this project. It must be supported, no matter how much it is voted on, it is needed in Ukraine. And I call for it to be put to the vote and accepted as a whole. This is really going to be a gift to Ukraine and entrepreneurs, and everybody, and so on. Please put my proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u153	Cibenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u154	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear Vadim Anatolyevich, Mikolo Janovich. I want to talk to you. I asked Alexandra Mikolaiovich about the return of the preferences that were in the law regarding the purchase of services and the production of enterprises of disabled people's organizations. It may not be complete enough to repeat, for example, the sixth article, which was, even though the second, third, and seventh paragraphs of this article were, in order to give preference to enterprises of disabled people’s organizations during tenders. Believe me, this is a rule that needs to be brought back to this law, because in other words, we're destroying enterprises of disabled people's organizations, in a situation where there's no such rule in the law, they're doomed, actually. I ask you to go back to the second reading of this rule to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u155	Dear colleagues, let's do it this way. We will now vote on the proposals that have been made by the working group and then we will vote on each single proposal that you have made. Is there no objection? You don't have to? I'll say it again. Welcome to Ivanovich, I repeat. We're going to vote on the basis, and then we're going to vote on the proposals. We don't have a different version of the Rules. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill 3554-d, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds. And then we'll go on offer. In the first reading. Vote. ‘For’ — 259 Copy that. We will now vote on the amendments that have been made. I put to the vote the amendment made by the Cabinet of Ministers, namely, to complete the first paragraph, the first article after the 25 paragraph, what could be inter-ministerial cooperation at the regional level.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u156	Not after 25, but in 25 paragraphs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u157	In the 25th paragraph. A proposal made by the Deputy Minister of Finance Please vote. For 235. Sustained, accepted. There was a proposal by Vitalia Majko, who throughout the entire discussion made this proposal. Who's in favour of supporting my colleague Mike's proposal, please vote. To 238. Copy that. And the third proposal made by Cíbenko's colleague is that of enterprises, owners of public organizations with disabilities. Please vote. For 247. Copy that. So, respectable colleagues, all three amendments that. Good-bye, good-bye. All three amendments that were tabled and urged to vote. Danilina's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u158	Ladies and gentlemen of the people!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u159	Adam Ivanovich! Thank you. [[Danilin Nikolai, faction of the Socialist Party, city of Kiev]] Adam Ivanovich! What I have said and said, I propose that part three of article two be supplemented by the paragraph “documents on education, student and student cards of the state model”. This is what I said to be added to it, there is a separate paragraph where the working group has developed forms of securities, documents of strict reporting and this is what it is about the money of the State budget and the education system. There are no other enterprises, only one that is manufacturing, so why are we doing these tender procedures there, is exactly like nuclear energy when there's one supplier, and we're looking for more people there to plant them. I'll put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u160	Please, you bastard.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u161	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! Dear People's Deputies, Danieline! This decision can be taken once by an interdisciplinary commission and once for all stages of purchase, no one will need to address it. The Ministry of Education has once and for all made a decision on this point by the interministerial commission. Hence, there is no need for changes in the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u162	I think she's a colleague of mine. Not happy? Okay, I'm voting on the amendment of my colleague Danilino. I'd like to make a statement. For - 144. Not supported. Who wants to go back to voting on this amendment? To 251. I'm putting Danilina's amendment, what's going on with the education papers, and so on and so on. Please vote. For 252. Copy that. So, dear colleagues, we've taken all the amendments into account before the vote in general, Mikola Janović, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u163	Dear People's Deputies, we have now adopted with you amendments to the Act, which have been discussed and supported by the Government in the working group, these amendments. Thus, the law is ready to vote in general as a law. What is the connection between the request of the Government and the Prime Minister? The extremely difficult situation in the country related to public procurement is, in fact, the tromb. And each day of delay in the implementation of such an important issue is the loss for which the coalition and the Government will be paid. That is why we must assume this responsibility today, vote on this Act as a whole and ask the President to sign this law so that it enters into force. [[We can't take it off anyway.]] My last proposal concerns, given that this regulatory act is necessary in the last part of it, in the Final Situations, it is imperative to insert the phrase that the law enters from the date of its publication in order not to wait three months. If we wait these three months, in fact, we're going to destroy all the state programmes. Because for all subsidies, all public programmes, money is already on the ground, and no area can be implemented now, because of the extremely complex procedure for public procurement, services and other tasks. That is why we must accept it with you today and make sure that this law is signed by the President. I ask you to support the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u164	Thank you, Mikola Janovich, it's not about three months, it's about 30 days. Right. There's another proposal then, so let's vote it out. Who is it that this law takes effect, not 30 days from the date of publication as it is now written, but is suggested that this law takes effect from the date of its publication. I'd like to make a statement. For 247. And this proposal is put to the vote. So all the proposals, all the proposals got support. We have the opportunity to put to the vote the adoption of Law 3554, the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds as a whole. For 215. Dear colleagues, who's in charge of coming back? To 214. Dear colleagues, let us deal with you this way. On June 27, we're still working with you, so I'd like to ask for a working group, because the committee has already ordered a long time to live at the head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u165	Adam Ivanovich, I would like Alexander Alexandrovich to speak on this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u166	Let me put it this way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u167	I'll put it this way. If anyone wants to make a statement about the substance of this law, what comments, what suggestions, because I listened to the discussion on this subject, you can speak now. If you feel that the suggestions you are proposing should necessarily enter into the text of the law, it is likely that the option that Adam Ivanovich has just offered is only possible. But if you insist on voting now, then you have to listen to the opinion of those who doubt it. So let's, if you want to make a statement, please sign up for a discussion, for an extra speech, for reasons of vote under this law. Please sign in. Please, Cranberry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u168	I believe that this law is necessary and must be supported in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u169	Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, I worked with my colleagues in the district last week, and what I had to hear under the current law made it very hard to talk about the problem in the State. I would strongly ask you to move here to public opinion and vote for the amendments that are in the law. Otherwise, we cannot hold a single tender that is being held today by local councils. Even within 56 days, and so far some money has not come out, they say that we will not be able to do repair work in the JCC, not other very important actions that need to be carried out in the regions today. That's why I'm talking to both the communists and the socialists, to support this law, to bring about the changes that are being proposed there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u171	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u172	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, given the amendments that have been made and the amendments have been quite substantial, they have still upgraded the law to the best of their ability, and Nikolai Janović has said quite correctly that the adoption of the law will eliminate the scourges in the economy that today hinder fiscal financing and production and the implementation of State purchases in general, particularly in the regions. Therefore, within the framework of the net improvement, I think today we have adopted an absolutely optimal reasonable response that will unlock all processes. I would like to vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u173	From MPs who have expressed their doubts by not voting on this matter, is there a desire to make a statement?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u174	Then I repeat my proposal to return to this vote. For – 211 Then I still have one chance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u175	Wait. Wait. Pavel Gnatovich. Wait, you've already expressed yourself on this subject and with motives, including. We obviously have the only opportunity then to listen to the proposal that has already been made here, to vote on this law in its final 27 numbers, and to the maximum of the clarifications that the MPs insist on. Once again, I repeat, including the fact that a number of useful suggestions have already been put to the vote, expressed by MP Mother and other MPs. Mikhailo Janovich or Mikolo Janovich, I believe you fully that everything is accounted for, except I don't see any. This could not even be covered. Sulkowski will tell you now, give him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u176	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I really want to say that we worked so hard for more than two months without those populists in the hall, and everything was fine. And I don't know what it is. Here are two factions of Alexandre Alexandrovich, socialists and communists. They don't make specific proposals, but Mike went out to the rostrum specifically, listened, put to the vote. And here it is. And there's no objection, and there's no support. Well, would you please tell me this law that you don't need today? We all say what it takes. And today, we have the only precaution not to get involved in any day and today, the First Vice-Prime Minister, Mikola Janovich Azarov, has addressed the President. Who else may have a question of the day, or even months, of the length of this law. Therefore, it is not clear why to put it off. Yeah, I'm sure there won't be any notices up to 27. So please, Alexander Alexandrovich, you personally as Head of the Supreme Council now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u177	Paul Gnatovich, it is now clear that after you have spoken, everyone will vote. Because the argument has to be concrete, you made it that way. Vitali Ivanovich, please, Mother has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u178	I have a great request to the deputies. Understand that today we have a sixth month of the year. More than half of the companies were unable to purchase a production kit. There are not many tenders in cities. I'm not talking about the principal tender commission here in Kiev, a lot. Today we're giving some sort of an outlet to make the industry work. I want to tell you how you would hear every day the curses that go to our address for this law. I would like to ask you all to put aside all your personal belongings in this matter. Think of what a person who wants to work thinks of us and cannot buy anything. I want to tell you: thousands, tens of thousands of people without work because of this law. And some factions are going to want to take it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u179	Vitaly Ivanovich, your argument is common. Why is it common? Because the head of the task force reported on the consequences of applying a law that only worked for 2.5 months. And the need to adopt this law was explained by the fact that the budget was being stolen. And by no chance at the beginning of the year, there were more than 30 bills on this issue to combat this evil. They wrote a formula that sets up the government, organizes the working group, organizes the deputies. It turns out that things aren't going well, because practice requires some adjustments. Obviously, masters to circumvent the law are, too. Today, many standards are included in the working group too, and the government is meeting in this regard. But I understand that there are still many suggestions that are simply overlooked because of that. If there was a guarantee that up to 27 amendments were being made, that would be another matter other than the adoption of the law. But if no one is going to go back to that, then the MP is obviously holding on to that, I understand, for the last one, so to speak, the argument, let's write down some more of these amendments and then we'll take it. Maybe so. Please, Samofalov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u180	Gennady Samofalov, faction of Party of Regions. I, frankly, do not fully understand the logic of our conduct. Indeed, great work has been done, and more than 30 laws have been passed down today. The Government has prepared it today, the Minister of Health – a communist, the Minister of Education – a socialist. These are people, I think, professional in this regard. They have done their good in making decisions by the Cabinet of Ministers. There is not a single amendment today that has been made in a room that would not have been voted on. The only thing we're going to get with you is an occasion to applaud the Supreme Council of our opposition today. We'll get you there. That is why I propose to return to the question, to vote on it, because it is a fateful issue for all sectors of the population and for the budgetary spheres. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u181	I ask you to reintroduce the matter to the agenda, return to the vote, please. To 219. There's an offer from Pecklusenko, from the Party of Regions, I understand, he's not only expressing his position, he's taking a 15-minute break for consultations on this subject. Then I have this proposal, and I ask your attention, please, one minute: we need to have the subject of a legislative initiative, i.e. the MPs, re-examined with the working group of proposals, and at 16 o’clock in the evening we are voting on this law. Tuesday, it's a totally business proposition. Give Azar a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u182	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Yesterday at the meeting of the working group, I have a vote in my office, Alexander Nikolaevich Tkachenko, today without any comment on the text of the Act as a whole. What changed that night? What comments did we not take into account?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u183	Mikola Janovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u184	Now. I beg you not to interrupt, Alexander Alexandrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u185	Mikola Janović. I ask once again, essentially the law, not the agitation of the general content, speak essentially of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u186	I'll go back to the law. Yesterday, I reiterate, no specific objection to the law was made by Alexander Nikolaevich Tkachenko as the leader of the working group, except for the two that we voted today. What's changed?Oh, my God! Now it's really about. I wish someone had it now. Alexander Alexandrovich, you had a conversation with the Prime Minister, and you guaranteed that socialists would uphold this law. What's changed? What specific objections to the essence of this law? What are you talking No comment is just an unwilling vote today. The coalition shouldn't be like this, Alexander Alexandrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u187	I ask you once again, Mikola Janović, don't raise each other, not for that we are here to consider this bill. And that's why we'll be back in half an hour. Wait a minute! In half an hour. Let's take a break, let's consult. If necessary, we will vote on this law, and we will not vote on it until 16 o’clock to take a break to take all the proposals into account. Please, Tucker, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u188	Dear Alexander Alexander. Mikola Janovich, you said it right. But we didn't talk to you about the amendment that we voted for today, and we voted for it, Mike. It's 120-150 billion money out of control! And it's so well covered up that someone doesn't give someone a job, they don't have jobs or they don't have pay. That's not true. From 120 billion to 150 billion money is out of control! That's not what we are. We've allowed stupidity, and now we're raping the hall! Let's vote on exclusion and then we'll vote on it as a whole. And you're shaking your head. So do not blame the head of the task force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u189	Well, please. It's a long way to go, so I'm asking you faction leaders to come up on the third floor, and Mikola Janovich on the third floor to consult essentially on the question. There's a break for half an hour, please. Half an hour's break. Please be representatives of the factions working on this document.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u190	Please tell the deputies to come into the hall. Sit down, sit down. Dear fellow MPs, there has been such a working meeting of representatives of the working group, heads of factions and representatives of the government. I think they have found a compromise in this regard. And it turns out that the discussion the day before was a waste. When there is an argument, the representatives of a coalition should first be consulted on what to talk about and then on what to talk about. That is why Alexander Mikolaiovich Tkachenko, head of the working group. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u191	Dear colleagues, we have considered the issues raised under this bill, under the Head of the Supreme Council, and have come to the conclusion that the amendment made by the People's Deputy, Mother, should be made as follows: “In the first part of the first article in paragraph three, add the words ‘only in the part of the budget funding’. I think that's the right thing to do. That's why I'd ask you to.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u192	Who's for including the question of voting again, please? For – 251 I'm voting on a draft law with this amendment as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u193	There's another one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u194	What's that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u195	At the Academy of Science.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u196	At the Academy of Science, at the Academy of Science, please speak again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u197	Dear colleagues, allow me to make another amendment to the People's Deputies of Zaplatinski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u198	Well, we haven't voted on this amendment yet. Let's vote on this amendment. Let's make sure there's no doubt about it. We vote on this amendment. Here comes the vote. We are voting for this amendment, which we are returning to. It's all right. To - 248. The amendment has been voted on. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u199	Correction of Zaplański, National Deputy of Zaplański. Article 2 will complement part of the following: “In the event that construction works are the object of purchase, reconstruction, repairs of transport facilities, bridges, bridge crossings, purchase of bridge building structures for construction, reconstruction, repair, with the aim of further transferring them to the contractor by solely the contracting entity, the contracting authority shall carry out the prior qualification of the participants. The previous qualification of participants is carried out by an authorized national authority for certification of the production of welded structures created by the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine. It's a science and technology complex of Patton's electrical welding institute. The conduct of the previous qualification shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure provided for in article 18 of this Law. According to a previous qualification, the national certification body for welded constructions concludes that participants who may be admitted to further trading with limited participation are required to conclude. The cost and order of payment of services of the previous qualification shall be used in accordance with the legislation.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u200	Please, Vladimir Seminovich Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u201	May I?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u202	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u203	Boyko, the Socialist faction. This amendment cannot be accepted because if we accept it, we will not repair any bridge - we will not repair anything at all. You can imagine what this amendment is. Today, there are even emergency bridges that will need to be repaired immediately. And we'll agree on six months. I therefore believe that this amendment should be repealed. You can't vote for her.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u204	Please. I bet that's the amendment that Alexander Mikolayovich put to the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u205	The National Deputy of Zaplański.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-19-m0.u206	Puts the vote to the vote. Please. For – 3 This amendment does not go through. In general, with the previous amendment, with the amendments previously voted, the law is put to the vote. For – 257 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues, MPs. The Prime Minister of Ukraine addressed the deputies with a letter and asked me to introduce you to him so that I wouldn't distribute it, I'll just read it orally. It's short. Your attention, please. “Dear National Deputies of Ukraine! Today, before you begin your work in committees and districts, I would like to thank you for your fruitful and constructive work here in the House of Parliament. Despite the difficulties and obstacles you have faced, the Ukrainian Parliament, together with the government, ensures the country’s viability. Without the laws you have approved, it would be impossible to accelerate the pace of economic development and the implementation of an important social package that gave green light to the beginning of the improvement of the lives of Ukrainian citizens. Today we can say that together we have laid the foundation for those standards of living that we want to create in Ukraine. I hope that together we will continue this matter that is necessary for the country and for the people. I call the Supreme Council of the Fifth Parliament of Reform because the principles of power reform in Ukraine have been implemented. And we're going to continue and consolidate this process with you. We will do our utmost to make effective decisions to improve people's lives and to consolidate democracy in Ukraine. We didn't have time to do it with you, but we still have more to do. I'm sorry that we're not allowed to continue our work, and they're not allowing us to complete the measures that we've planned to improve the standard of living of Ukrainian citizens. However it may be, you, honourable national deputies, sum up the stage of your work in Parliament on a good note. To complete this period successfully, we will soon return to the next step that we will take together on the path we have determined. I mean work on the adoption of the Tax Code, from a whole set of measures that will improve the conditions for small and medium-sized businesses, I mean the implementation of judicial reform so that before the law in Ukraine are equal to all and a whole range of other laws that will have to be approved to implement our programme in the development of the state. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! By thanking you today for your productive cooperation during this period of our partnership, I would like to stress that I want to work with each and every one of you further, because you have proved to Ukraine and the people your effectiveness, national wisdom, tolerance and accountability to people and country. I wish success, health and prospects." This, as it were, is what the Prime Minister wants to do at the end of our session. I think we listen to wishes and we pay particular attention to cooperation further, I mean the fourth session, the next session of Parliament, together with the government, to succeed in this joint matter, which is defined by the coalition and the government. [[Applause]] Deputies! Before the morning session is closed, I want to say that the evening session will take place at 4:00. Recall, too, that those responsible for the preparation of tomorrow’s hearings must now consider all procedural matters further, since they will take place tomorrow. Meanwhile, I declare the morning session closed. Thank you.
