ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished national deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, invited! Today, March 13, Tuesday, Parliament continues its work. I'm asking you to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:01:37]] Ready to work 389 national deputies. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the birthday of the national deputy Tkachenka Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Let us welcome him, wish him health, success, all the more, he is still a youth MP and intends to work effectively to benefit both the electorate and the state. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, on March 12, last year, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, who was elected on March 26, last year, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Volosinkova Dmitry Borisovich, a member of the Party of the Regions. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council before taking office. In order to make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine, Volosynkov Dmitry Borisovich, is invited. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u2	Good afternoon. I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u3	We also wish Dmitri Borisovich success in the work. Honourable deputies, in accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have Tuesday time for presentations by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages, and so forth. I'm asking you to sign up for the factions. There's a note from the socialists. Ivan Boki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u4	Statement by the parliamentary faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The socialist party of Ukraine, its faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine in today’s difficult political situation, is taking a clear, consistent position on the basis of which a strong political, economically independent state is built. In order to achieve this strategically important task, the Socialist MPs are proposing legislation on the development of a competitive, socially oriented economy, its recovery, the creation of new directions in the economic, energy and environmental security of the State, with new technologies, higher productivity and quality of work, the transition to a European wage policy with guaranteed minimum hourly wages and higher human cost in the cost of production, the implementation of constitutional requirements for state guarantees in education, health, culture, pension insurance, fair and socially balanced housing policy. This objective is subordinated to the participation and work of socialists in the parliamentary-government coalition. In order to achieve the goals set today, stability in the country, understanding, and support of the people is more necessary than ever. And they are. This is the result of economic development, which enables social spending to be consistently increased from the State budget, particularly from the second quarter to seven billion dollars to increase the innovation component. However, it is these positive results, their social orientation, that make the political forces particularly angry, who are pursuing the idea of rematching their defeat in past parliamentary elections. Under the absolute and guaranteed Constitution of Ukraine's right to protest and to national will, these forces in opposition should offer an alternative to the parliamentary and government course, and they destabilize the situation, manipulate people's consciousness, misrepresent the work of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers, the political parties that unite in the parliamentary-government coalition, slander political reform, the constitutional system. The documents that proclaim the merger of BUT and “Our Ukraine” point to their main objective — to bring about the anti-constitutional principles of re-election of the Supreme Council, to push the honourable head of “Our Ukraine”, which is headed by the State Institute of Government, the President, into illegal, anti-State action, which will in fact mean a coup d'état. In harmony with the personal ambitions of some politicians, the fate of Ukraine, its people, and its future are at stake. Society is infected with the viruses of populism, intolerance, confrontation, endless strife, and the oppression of political passions. Opposition is being transformed into a wide range of anti-government, anti-constitutional actions involving not only deceived people but also state institutions. In fact, it is about discrediting and reducing Ukrainian statehood. In these circumstances, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine calls upon all political forces, all state institutions of power to defend the Constitution of the Ukrainian State against attacks by extremists of forces and their leaders, who have already proved their inability and adventure in high public office, and now again by methods of subterfuges and promises of dark castles, demagogic marches, they want to put the people back on their heads. The country needs to be at peace so that people can work, and the government has implemented an anti-crisis coalition programme that will allow Ukraine to be removed from the crisis for the next few years, to ensure its progressive course towards European economic and social standards, prosperity and confidence in the future for all the citizens of our country. We demand that the President of Ukraine, by the Constitution of Ukraine, perform the role of guaranteeing respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens, upholding the rule of law and rights, protecting the state from any violation of its constitutional order and manipulation by the state institutions of power, preventing them from being used in the group interests of the current opposition of the anti-national oligarchic clans, which were a hindrance to Ukraine's development on the basis of the socio-democratic state of Europe, and the destruction of Ukrainian statehood must be established as a viable haven. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u5	Thank you. From the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Timoshenko speaking, Julia Volodymyrna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u6	Good afternoon, dear fellows! I want everyone to pay attention to this circus. And maybe the Party of Regions will explain to someone why they're standing by the rostrum and blocking something, what's their reason for that? And why are they today around the room where our faction is sitting, taking the blockade? Why did they block all the toilets? Is it forbidden to go to the bathroom from this day on? And today they protect the shield. I mean, they're doing this without any reason or reason because they don't understand what they're doing in power. And I think there's nothing for them to do about how to stand by the rostrum, near the shields, near the toilets and the hall where our meetings are held. I think it is, dear friends, that it is one clear word: fear. You don't have to be so afraid, dear friends. You'll be out of power soon, regardless of whether you're standing by the bleachers or sitting in your seats. And now I would like to make a statement supported by two democratic factions led by the President. And this statement today states that in Ukraine, the Bush Times returned quite quickly. And this is where all the bush kids, who are now practically in every direction without exception, have restored everything that was going on before the 2004 presidential election. First, today, on the basis of the constitutional reform they carried out, there is total chaos in the country. Today, virtually all branches of power, starting with the judicial system, the government, the parliament, are reopening powerful corruption schemes. And in order to stay in power, they constantly throw in pieces to those countries that see Ukraine as their fatherland for which they will be kept under this authority. That is why this position today poses a major threat to Ukraine’s independence, a major threat to the extent that it has not been in 15 years. And if you hear statements today from the Speaker of the Supreme Council, the government, you will have two serious trends to destroy Ukraine. First. They're going to sign protocols for the entry into the Single Economic Space as soon as possible. And it's these protocols that provide for the loss of part of state sovereignty, the transfer of our sovereign rights to the superstate authority in the Single Economic Space, where Ukraine will have 11 percent when it comes to solving the issue, the Russian Federation will have more than 80 percent. Secondly, in order to carry out all of these operations, including in the political and energy sectors, they today made a statement with their mouths by the Head of the Supreme Council of Alexander Frost that they were going to bribe 300 deputies in the Supreme Council and create a constitutional majority. And today it was officially made by Frost. And that means they start a more thorough job with MPs, they scare them, the kids offer bribes, and on that basis they're going to beat the compass 300 votes. And then change the Constitution, adopt without the veto of the President all the laws. This is practically a system of coup d'état. And that's why today we're putting 17 conditions in the hands of this anti-crisis coalition. Starting with tariffs, rising wages and pensions, removing corruption in the courts, in the government, in the Supreme Council, to stop adopting lobbyist laws and laws that renew their shadow economy. And these questions, 17 of them today, are the ultimatum of this power. If they don't do what we now demand, starting with the new constitution and ending with the removal of the power structures of corruption, we will act adequately. And now we're demanding a 30-minute recess -- holding a Conciliation Council with faction leaders, and if we don't take appropriate action to implement these conditions, 17, we'll act adequately in Parliament. A gang in power in Ukraine to rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u7	The word has a representative from “Our Ukraine, ” Viacheslav Kirilenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u8	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Today we are witnessing another coalition attempt to destabilize Parliament's work; otherwise, the crisis of Parliament's work cannot be called a situation where, at 6 a.m., members of the ruling coalition's factions, at the direction of the government of Yanukovich, take a turn in places to block any work of Parliament. This indicates that repeated statements by leaders of the ruling coalition that they will be able to consolidate both parliament and the country do not withstand any criticism. Such a ruling coalition can produce only new crises and continue to endure such a situation and to the electorate, and it is impossible for democratic, political forces. Of course, such a nervous reaction by the governing coalition is the response and response to a united opposition agreement that has begun to consolidate its actions both in Parliament and outside Parliament. Yet the rise in opposition is linked to the fact that it is impossible to resolve any issue in the interests of the people in the present parliament. All those questions that were adopted by the opposition initiative were able to bring the day into order under enormous pressure by blocking the rostrum and other active action on the ruling coalition. Any other questions that the opposition proposes to put in order of the day are rejected by the ruling coalition. This is how 43 draft laws were introduced by the faction “Our Ukraine” into the order of the day of this session. They were rejected by virtually all lists without discussion. And these are extremely important issues, mainly of a socio-economic nature. Of course, in such circumstances it is becoming increasingly difficult to continue working in Parliament. In such circumstances, no constitutional commission initiated by Parliament can be productive. That's why two factions of “Our Ukraine” and BUIT have registered a draft ruling that allows us to get our deputies out of the Constitutional Commission of Parliament. We believe that it is impossible under such pressure to discuss and adopt any new changes to the Constitution. And making proposals to change the Constitution into three factions, this work on three is counterproductive. We propose any changes to the Constitution, including the new Constitution, to consider at the highest level through that constitutional commission created by the President of Ukraine, which he proposes to include not only the factions of the ruling coalition parliament, but all political forces, including those outside the parliament, as well as public authorities, leading lawyers and those who have constitutional rights issues. All that's going on in Parliament right now is a classic attempt to usurp government power. The ruling coalition has long been transformed into obedient “buttonedaws” who thoughtlessly stamp out all, including the anti-social decisions of the Yanukovic government, which are being submitted to Parliament. In this context, the united opposition introduces a package of 17 requirements, taking into account and implementing the factions “Our Ukraine” and “BUT” insist. I'll just count some of them. First. Increase wages and pensions. Increase the minimum wage to the minimum wage not later than 1 January 2008. Set a minimum hourly wage for a person, not two hundred and twenty-seven dollars an hour, as the governing coalition government bill is scheduled to do today. The other one. Eliminate the pension balance and further increase pensions for long - term workers. Next. To create a full market for the land that will return ownership to the peasants and land to its true value, and to stop its uncontrollable theft. Next. Simplify the business process, restore the competitive environment and the normal investment climate. Cancel this coalition's return, this government's shadow schemes in the economy. Immediately implement a single social contribution and reduce the pressure on the payroll fund. To implement all the President's decrees that have stopped the actions of the Cabinet of Ministers, which do not correspond to the Constitution, including the ominous appointments. Remove all bills aimed at breaking down the foundations of the governance system: the President, the Security Council, the changes to the Constitutional Court Act, the reactionary principles of internal and external policy. In the event that these requirements are not met, the faction “Our Ukraine” and the united opposition leave the right to act adequately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u9	Peter Simonenko’s word is from the Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u10	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. As reported by the media, following a visit to the United States of America and receiving instructions under the auspices of the President, certain political forces of law and nationalist orientation have placed specific tasks under the auspices of the President. In my view, by informing the Ukrainian community today, we are dealing with political conspiracies to establish a regime of caveatial nationalist authoritarianism. Having obtained the support of the Pacific masters, by directing their efforts towards permanent sabotage, these efforts are aimed not only at discrediting the current authority but at paralyzing the national economy, creating social tensions, inciting protests of different types of sentiments with a view to the destruction of Ukrainian statehood. What's that? First of all, the ultimatum of parliamentary democracy. We Communists claim that the demagoguery accompanying these ultimative demands is a frank lie, and the real goal is, on the basis of the President's authority, not only to discredit the Supreme Council, but first and foremost to encourage paralysis and activities and ultimately to disband Parliament and thus to discredit the entire parliamentary democracy. The object of this political force is to return the Kuchmow Constitution of 1996, establishing a presidential monarchy with unlimited powers of the President and his oligarchic, and now apparently a pro-American, pro-Western environment. [[Right here, distinguished voters, I'm drawing your attention.]] That is also the purpose of the instructions received in America. But the main task is to undertake accelerated privatization of the remains of the individual on the wreckage of Parliament. It was no coincidence that President Yushchenko made a proposal to privatize such remains as were relevant to both the Odessa Port Facility and the Ukretelecoma. We have a situation with you today where it is precisely these political forces that have set the task of opening up the economy for large foreign capital, and the experience of Krivoroztali, when Judah's kiss has sold the most basic metallurgical complex, they have. The world market is being tried to dispose of land and thereby establish the colonial character of the Ukrainian economy. The accelerated entry into NATO and the support of ABM, as the Americans themselves have already stated, represent a real threat to national security and Ukrainian statehood. And the date set for joining NATO is 2009, which is exactly the one Rubicon that will either pass through Ukraine and its statehood will be protected, or we will finally become a colony of the American, western. That is how it seeks to restore the Kushmo Constitution and to virtually disperse Parliament. Thus, the so-called opposition deliberately replaces patriotism with morbid nationalism. The idea of the justice of a democratic State to the dictatorship of the President, the monarchy; the idea of a strong national economy to Roboleptic colonialism; and the protection of State sovereignty to geopolitical laity. In these circumstances, we claim that the anti-crisis coalition is the last plot of parliamentary democracy in Ukraine that we are trying to protect today, which is a guarantee of the preservation of social peace and the progressive development of the national economy. We do not have the right to allow Ukraine to become practically the periphery of the West and the health belt between NATO and the CIS countries. Today, we propose to address the international community and to really expose the threats that the so-called opposition today is conspiring to destroy parliamentary democracy. Finally, I would like once again to draw the attention of the distinguished voters to the outcome of the popular referendum in Nikolayev region. It was in the Nikolayev region that a referendum was held on Sunday that showed that 91 to 99 per cent of the people living in the Nikolayev region did not categorically support the President's policy of joining NATO. From 83 to 99 per cent of those who attended the referendum supported the consideration of a single economic area with Russia, Kazakhstan, Belarus and Ukraine. We suggest that we immediately hear information from the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the so-called missile defence negotiations and bring to justice those who have led US parliamentarians to claim that Ukraine will be part of the ABM. And, of course, we propose to speed up the negotiating process of creating a single economic space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u11	The word from the faction “Region ” has Stoyan. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u12	Alexander Stoyan, Ukrainian Party of Regions Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! The theme of my speech is political reriding. Today you are witnessing a new kind of raiding, a political raid. Those political forces that were already in power for a year and a half and whose actions the people of Ukraine had given a proper assessment during the 2006 elections, giving priority to our political forces, decided to take a rematch. Not receiving the support of most Ukrainian citizens for the early elections, Julius Timoshenko went to America to ask for their blessing on action, demeaning the dignity of our nation. Imagine, fellow countrymen, could any prominent Senator of America come to our country and ask Parliament's support for President Bush's impeachment?Oh, my God! Another actioner, former ex-minister who promised to name the world names who poisoned the President, who killed George Gongadze Yuri Lucenko, is travelling across Ukraine, making a solo call for a trip to Kiev. And what's interesting? That this new “pop Hapoon” on one of the TV shows “or he reports to himself what it will be when, in response to his half million people he intends to bring to Kiev, 1.5-2 million supporters of our political forces will come in to protect stability in the state” he replied: “It is already a matter of the militia to set order. Is this not an attempt to bring about a coup d'état or, in any case, to collide with various political forces? Regrettably, the President of Ukraine recently took part in this dangerous game, as evidenced by his statement of full support for the opposition. What is wrong with opposition? Perhaps the government's steady functioning is growing an economy that is able to continuously raise the living standards of Ukrainian citizens. As we know, the government has introduced a draft law to the Supreme Council of Ukraine amending the State Budget Act 2007, which we should consider next Thursday. These changes include raising the minimum wage by the end of the year from 400 to 460 dollars, increasing the minimum pension by 60 to 80 dollars, raising the salaries of budget workers – teachers, doctors and other categories – by 150 to 200 dollars. It shows that in 2008 – I answer to Mr. Kirilenko – the government plans for the first time in the history of Ukraine's independence to assume 100 percent responsibility for the minimum wage to the minimum wage. By the way, when Yushchenko was Prime Minister and Vice Prime Minister Timoshenko was Prime Minister, the minimum wage was only 35.6 living minimum. This is the lowest indicator in years. The opposition is also not organized by their supporters from across the ocean and that the Anti-Crist Coalition in Parliament is working steadily. Just one example: Within a month we passed all the laws necessary for Ukraine’s entry into the WTO, which the previous Supreme Council could not do. The opposition is eager to return to the authority that they have used so freely. Such actions certainly do not embellish our state or add image in the international arena, for who will invest in a state where there is no political stability, where Parliament cannot properly adopt laws in the interests of citizens. So the Ukrainian Party of Regions once again calls upon our colleagues, who today refer to the opposition, not to engage in political raids, not in the streets or in the field, but at the negotiating table with us at the state level, together with the President, to take steps to resolve the pressing issues that concern our society. This is much better than a constant confrontation. And I'm sure that's what the citizens will all be grateful for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u13	Thank you. Before making a few announcements, I am simply obliged, since this is about the characteristics of Parliament’s work, and the assessments that include me, I am obliged to make a few clarifications. Well, first of all. In order for no one to have such biased ideas, you can go to toilets in the Supreme Council. Nobody's blocking them, please don't worry about that. Next. More precisely, the terms that have been used in political science have long existed in Ukrainian politics. “Children of Kuchma” is a brand that has been used since 2000, so it is not necessary to transfer it to other rails today. Everyone understands what this is. Let's move on. When it came to voting for the EP, I want to emphasise that one of the factions of the Socialists, by the way, did not vote in favour of that decision, because there were arguments for that, but it was voted on one condition: not to go beyond the Constitution and not to create superstate structures. Pick up the protocols, see what's going on. With regard to the new Constitution, the changes to the Constitution, or the adoption of the new text of the Constitution, this affair will not be implemented. I want to say right away, but the changes to the Constitution will only be made within the limits and by the rules laid down in the Constitution itself. There is no other order, and any call from this point of view has no force. All the suggestions raised here by Viacheslav Kirilenko in the vast majority included in the order of the day will certainly be considered. Regarding the bribe of three hundred deputies, for up to three hundred to be sufficient, this innovation I have for the first time, of course, must have the imagination and imagination to say it. But what I'd like to say is that the author's quote is so ridiculously different from what's in publications made abroad. “And I will step by step destroy the supporting people of the Party of the Regions in the east, I will re-enlist and take the best organizers of the process” and so on. I don't know what methods will be used, I won't talk about money. And I think that's the answer to the question. You can't use arguments that don't have any grounds. And finally, when we're talking about adequate action, we should mean, I'm going to announce, after a while, I'm going to break up with the Ulya Timoshenko Block and the U.K. Block. We'll meet with faction leaders. But I want to say what's planned next. And then two sectors will be covered with flags for two weeks of blocking Parliament's work, not showing up here in the session room, demanding the President to promise laws, and perhaps an attempt to get him to then give a decree to disband Parliament. I want to say that the President is a guarantor of the Constitution, and he will not go on such adventures. But I want all of us to understand that all of this radicalization to the essence of what's going on in Ukraine has no bearing, because power works solidly. The increase in production volumes, the increase in GDP, the guarantee of higher wages and social guarantees, and so on. So everything we hear here as declarations is a practical work of power, of coalition, of government and of normal, normally-oriented parliamentary MPs who join the opposition. And when I was talking about 300 people joining the coalition, it was these very powerful, intelligent people who were devastated by the abomination that were disgusted by the constant conflicts that are absolutely no good to society, to the state, to Parliament in particular. I'd like us to understand what we have. What are the scenarios, how are they developing, who are coordinated, who are being directed and what are being pursued. I would like to reassure everyone: Parliament will endure all these trials, and after these planned, inadequate, I want to say, cataclysms, a large proportion of the deputies who have grown tired of such destruction, will join the coalition and will work, including the changes to the Constitution that have been discussed here, but which cannot be implemented until there are 300 votes of parliament that can make the right decisions. That's right. It's not a comment, it's the answer, in fact, to the comments that apply to the Supreme Council and me as Heads. Next, I wanted to announce. More loyally, give word for the announcement of Volodymyr to Paid. Please, we're still in the Rules. A brief announcement. Then I'll make two more announcements.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! In accordance with protocol number 1 of February 27, 2007, I report that the National Deputies of Ukraine, including those who do not belong to any faction of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, have created a "Independent Ukraine" union. The merger is governed by the Constitution of Ukraine, the laws of Ukraine, the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Agreement on the Coalition of Deputies factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Rules of Coalition and the Regulations on the Unification of Ukrainian People's Deputies in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Council of the “Independent Ukraine”. Uniting is based on the principles of the rule of law, the rule of law, democracy, independence, freedom of political activity, transparency, collegiality, equality of union members, and sound decision - making. The National Deputys of Ukraine were: Borgich Alexander Ivanovich, Volkov Alexander Anatoliyevich, Inga Stanislavovna, Glady Mikhailo Vasilovich, Plačinsky Vladimir Mihajlovich, Edin Alexander Josephovich, Zubc Mikhailo Vasilovich, Zubik Vladimir Volodymyrovich, Lutsky Maksim Georgievic, Tolstenko Vladimir Leonidovich. The National Deputy of the Ukraine of Zaplatinski has been elected head of the association. The “Independent Ukraine” association is open to cooperation with the factions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with political parties and social organizations. Thank you for your attention. I invite you to cooperate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u15	Thank you. I'm making a statement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of the People's Deputy of Ukraine and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, the National Deputy Volosinko Dmitry Borisovich reports that he is a member of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] I'm sorry. And the second statement of his being part of the anti-crisis coalition. Please. In accordance with the Rules, Article 27 requires the head of the bloc, the Yulia Timoshenko faction and the heads of the “Our Ukraine” faction to be announced for a 30-minute period of up to 11.10. Please. I'd like the faction leaders to come up on the third floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u16	And we agreed that now the 10 minutes that have been used, the factions will be determined relative to their next position and will briefly be spoken of within three minutes of each faction. So please write down who would like the faction to comment on this. Keep going. I'll just be a minute, let's figure it out. There's a vote coming, there's an application. Yes, still in view of the fact that we used our break time with the reserve, I propose and hope that you will support me, we will be working without interruption for 14 hours. Up to 14 years old. Ivan Sidorovich Boki's first recorded, please. You've got three minutes. That's right, as always.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u17	You know, one very wise woman once said, well, at another time, but she said very wise words: “Do not speak on behalf of the people. You've made him hot." I don't want to specifically apply these words to some political force today, but, you know, these all-U.S. political grounds and the all-U.S. rally that lasts today in the squares of many cities, he's already sown so much disillusionment in the people that we wouldn't be saying so much here today, a lot of people just don't believe it anymore. But I'm asking you to believe what I'm going to say today on behalf of the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. You know very well that we, the socialists, have been in actual opposition for many years. And we understand well the role of opposition in the state. We understand very well that opposition is the kind of sanitizer that prevents the public from being exposed to it. But this is only when the opposition plays a constructive role when it offers a reasonable alternative to the state. And today we've received a statement from two opposition parties, which 17 points have written there, but we haven't been able to read it. Today we have only become acquainted with some of them from the mouth of Julius Volodymyrna and the leader of the faction "Our Ukraine." What can I say about this? This document needs deep study, we can't make any explicit statements today, but at the same time there are places that we can't accept, especially with regard to the resignation of the leaders of the power structures. You know, every day you play that kind of retirement -- it's not appropriate. I think we also can't accept the dictatorship that the opposition today has actually announced to the majority. We're not going to achieve anything through the dictatorship. You need negotiations, you need advice, you need smart suggestions. And that's obviously the way it's supposed to be. And I think that further negotiations should be with the President of Ukraine. Because today we heard one very savage and wild thing that the President is in charge of the opposition. It can't be, because then it's in opposition to the state, in opposition to the people. Look, it's God who knows what. The fact that he comes from one political power does not give him the right to stand in opposition, he must be the President of all Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u18	Thank you. The stone is passed on to Timoshenko. Please, Julia Volodymyr.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u19	Dear colleagues! It is just at the Conciliation Council, with the participation of the so-called anti-crisis coalition and democratic opposition, that there is a conversation where our political team is democratic, together has set forth clear conditions to deal with the deep constitutional crisis, the deep social crisis, the explosion of corruption in the state and the threat of the loss of independence of the state. I can tell you that it was the conversation of the blind with the deaf about. Because the Head of the Supreme Council, along with the leaders of the anti-crisis coalition, clearly stated that they were simply not interested and today the Supreme Council, headed by the Head of the Supreme Council, had virtually turned into a printing press for decisions that are born today in the Yanukovich clan. Today's situation. And so to speak of what someone has heard today, or someone feels that he has come to serve Ukraine, not his own corruption interests in the anti - crisis coalition, no one has actually declared. Therefore, our two political forces have come to realize that without the serious consolidation of democratic forces at the hands of the President, without the demands of this anti-crisis team, unfortunately no issue will have to be moved. Now they're planning to drop the bone this week in the form of 2 bracelets of salary raises and pensions, which will not solve the issue completely for the country, and they think that this will close the problem of wage hikes and pensions. To the bone, the law will be passed on to nothing regarding the tariff crisis and will make it appear that the issue has been resolved. They have today dropped a bill amending the Constitution, depriving the President of all rights in general, and abolishing the President's office in general, and they will consider that this is a logical change to the Constitution, when the state will be deprived of the last right to elect the President throughout the country. And they now think that the creation of three hundred votes in parliament on bribery and corruption is the solution to today's power crisis from the opposition in society. Such logic today shows that apart from the usurping of power and the fracturing of the whole society through its knee, this anti-crisis coalition sees nothing more. And so our two democratic forces have decided that until they pay attention to our demands, we leave this room in Parliament, because today to sanctify what is happening in this room, honest politicians simply have no right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u20	I just want to say in the presence of colleagues that we didn't talk about it, really. The conversation was not about that, and the conclusions were not so. But so be it. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u21	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I have in my hands the demands of the Supreme Council of the so-called opposition. The conclusion that I can make is that hypocrisy has tarnished and the Kuchma-Lazarenko-Timoshenko case is flourishing and in this situation is gaining momentum. What do I want to inform you about? First of all, the absolute majority of the initiatives outlined here are not legislative and we have nothing to consider with you. Next. The charges against the entire Supreme Council. I can reiterate that 90 per cent, or 99 per cent, of those exhibiting ultimatum today are Kuchma's sons and daughters. It is not a matter of substance, which is the main problem of our current situation, that is, the political system and the regime, to what extent they are effective in protecting human rights and freedoms. Now, some of the issues that are being discussed here. The gap, written in the rules, in the proposals, is to break the link between power and money. So if you'll excuse me, please, let's show business and money. You're making demands here. Geiduk – two billion, Taruta – two billion, Colomoysky – 1.2 billion, God-loving – 1.2 billion, Zhivago – one billion. [[your faction member]] So what are you saying? To whom do you claim? Show yourself, please! I hope my last name's right? Wage increase. Respectable voters, 90 percent of businesses are property of those I called. Show your enterprises that you have actually increased your salary by 3-4 times and that we are dealing with a question that concerns well-being. It's just... it's... it's... Who's in charge of the Supreme Court? He's a member of the Onopenko Battoon faction. Please arrange for the courts not to be an instrument of raiding. Who's bothering you? Implement. Your Onopenko is headed by the Supreme Court of Ukraine. Next. CVK. You're making demands with respect to the CIA. And in 2004, who raped the Supreme Council? Didn't you choose? I remind you, you have chosen this composition of the Central Electoral Commission. You've chosen someone you say you're accusing today. You made him do all kinds of machinations at the time. And we know that. I'm just not saying some of the transactions that were made there right now because it's the responsibility of this person in court. Therefore, the well-respected voters today are talking about the fact that the fiercest struggle for power has indeed begun to restore the power of Kuchma to the insolvent President Yushchenko. He has had full powers since 2005 and has not availed himself of them for the benefit of the people of Ukraine. He did not fulfill any of his promises made at Maidan. The whole policy has failed. Made Ukraine dependent. And this dependence today seeks to carry out criminal acts to destroy the statehood of Ukraine. I believe that such statements must be resisted and put an end to the political, organized “Our Ukraine” and the bulwarks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u22	Take it easy, please. Vasil Alexiyovich Kiselov of the Party of Regions. Then Kirilenko. Calm down!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! Respectable compatriots! Another ultimatum we got from the opposition, so-called. When we considered it, it turned out that out of 17 paragraphs, only 2 were drafted as bills. I mean, it's nothing to talk about. We were asked, as she said, to be deaf to the blind: we are considering drafts coming to the hall, speaking the language of the law, but not the language of the ultimatum. All of this was thrown away. And now I'm going to say it in essence. At a time when an anti-crisis coalition led by the Government and supported by the Ukrainian people is supported. Today we can give examples of work to improve the socio-economic situation in the country, and we see that there are forces that have made every effort to dilute the situation in the State. Another tariff crisis they created was created by them. And today we reap the harsh conditions that they have left us after their rule. We cannot help but say that, personally, I cannot say that I heard with great regret yesterday that the President supported the statement signed by the so-called opposition led the opposition in the country today. I support my colleague Boki here, and I can speak with great regret about it. Now I'm going to say specifically: what is the fear of today of the so-called opposition, of Timoshenko himself and of those with her. When the commission that was set up here on Kravchenko's proposal began to work when we received the documents that confirm that the US Ambassador, unfortunately, did not tell the whole truth or mislead him, because we have documents in our hands that confirm that Mrs. Timoshenko was summoned for questioning by U.S. Attorney Martha Bersh, these documents are available. And today I'm confused, and I understand why she was in America and why she wasn't left there. And I think today that it will do its utmost not to let the Supreme Council work, because it is afraid of responsibility, it is afraid that if we take the time to complete what was ended in a political decision today, it will have to sit next to those who are already sitting. I'm asking you to listen to me and not hold your hand before the time. I'm responsible for my words. And what you're talking about here is how the courts are bought, we also know how the decisions of individual courts have been bought. That is why I would say another thing: when we registered a draft order yesterday for the establishment of an investigative review commission, who poisoned the President, I must tell you, there was a very loud noise. Because we probably already know what happened, but now we want to find out the truth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u24	Thank you. Kirilenko has the word. You'll get the word for it. Get a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u25	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that, despite the spell of the ruling coalition, the President remains the most legitimate political figure in the country, the head of state, the president of all Ukrainians. Another thing that makes you uncomfortable is that the opposition democratic factions in Parliament and outside Parliament have united and are starting to oppose, resist, and oppose, the rematchers who are united in the ruling coalition and in the government of Yanuković. I would like to remind you that all of the issues that have been raised in recent times and of little importance to the people, to the voters, have been brought under pressure, or to the united democratic opposition, or to the President of Ukraine, including the pay question that you have finally raised and will consider on Thursday - is only a response to President Yushchenko's passing a bill on the increase in minimum wages and pensions. Without this decision, without this presidential pressure, the ruling coalition would not increase people’s salaries to either pensioners or budget workers. And that's obvious to all voters. All matters of order, which are dealt with by the "Our Ukraine" faction, are rejected and ignored. In such a Parliament and with such an environment, it is not possible to work peacefully and effectively. We're told that we're overly demanding. All 17 requirements that are now publicly publicized, justified and are the electoral orders, not the inventions of the political powers. All 17 demands have just been discussed at the meeting. None of them are considered unrealistic. How can an unrealistic one, such as requirement number 2: protect Ukraine's foreign policy course, protect Ukraine's foreign policy course, as enshrined in the Ukrainian National Security Act? Politically, legislatively and organizationally ensure the leading role of the President of Ukraine in the conduct of foreign policy; appoint a foreign minister -- which you do not want to do for the second month on purpose, deliberately destroying foreign policy. How can we conclude that paragraph 3: Stop the attack on Ukrainian language and culture? The requirement is to immediately remove draft legislation against Ukrainian language and repeal decisions by parties of the anti-crisis coalition of local councils that undermine constitutional principles for the functioning of national language in Ukraine. It was you who filed these bills, you could take them out in one second and make them more peaceful in the country, protect the national language. You're not doing this because your purpose, your cause, is destabilizing. We can't work under these conditions. We thought that the ruling majority would meet our demands. We weren't programmed to have an algorithm for leaving the hall, but now that we've met with the deaf wall, we'll leave the hall, we'll fight outside the Parliament and we'll prove ourselves right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u26	Wait a minute. I am. Julia Volodymyrna, you will take the floor. I'm just saying as a negotiator, we agreed that I would contact the President and agree that the Prime Minister and I would like to discuss a set of issues that are being raised today in order to remove a perfectly artificial tension. I must say that I have not been able to contact him right now because the President is now on his way to the Gitomirsk region and is not yet in a position to be contacted. This will be the case, and I will talk to him about it today. As to the argument that all the proposals that are presented in the 17th paragraphs are accompanied by legislative acts, I've given an order to verify what is actually registered. I'm going to say that this author has registered proposals for the High Council of Justice, the ban on grain exports, the appointment of members of the CLTC and changes to the Civil Procedure Code. There's nothing left. So I'd like us to work really hard in that sense. We're willing to consider any drafts you're going to make, but we need them to be made, not just statements about what they are. That's what desire is. There is no doubt that the President is the legitimate figure in Ukraine, because he has chosen direct elections and no one is questioning that. But let's work together. But obviously, the scenario that I was talking about before the meeting is being implemented. Whatever we say, whatever we say, it's gonna be a decision that's been made, it's too bad, it's not here anymore. But that's your business. Julia Volodymyrna has the right to reply, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u27	I would now like to address the citizens of Ukraine and say that today, in Ukraine, the tariff crisis has overwhelmed all people without exception. Real pensions and wages have fallen. There has been a backlog of shadow-based privatization, with specific companies in particular power. Today, there has been widespread corruption with land, with property. And that's what sanctifies everything today, including the left-wing sector in this Parliament. Under our pressure, the opposition has now returned to consider what a tariff crisis is, at least, contributing to the crucibles of wage increases and pensions. We've stopped our gas transportation system. All of this happened because our opposition force was actually performing its functions. Today, the repressions that the representatives of both the Party of Regions and the Socialists and the Communists have just announced began against me. I'm used to reprisals. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u28	Thank you. I think it's clear. Let's not comment. We're looking at a bill, a draft amnesty law, worked out, filed a committee. It was handed over on February 20. Reported to the head of the committee on law enforcement, Vladimir Romanovich Moysik. Volodymyr Romanovich. There are different authors here. Vladimir Romanovich! [[So he's standing?]] Are you ready to report? Aah! Moses is not here. Excuse me. Secretary of the Borszewski Committee, please. This is the re-reading of the Amnesty Law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u29	Borstevsky, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. The Committee has returned several times to the various versions of the Amnesty Act and has decided that such a law is, in principle, necessary today, to be adopted on first reading, but only on first reading, because there is a need for serious elaboration in many paragraphs, a need for further elaboration in accordance with the procedural codes, as well as clarification of amnesty under certain articles. Therefore, the Committee's decision, the decision of the Committee, to adopt the law on first reading and the second reading to finalize it, to adopt it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u30	The question is to the reporter? None. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u32	We don't have a co-reporter here, because it's an initiative of the deputies first of all. Who wants to comment on this? Write down who wants it. We've already discussed this question, as you know, we've been instructed to work out, and according to our commission, the committee has been working on this project. Matvienkov, please, after him is Alexandrovska. Out of the way, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u33	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, the bill. It's long overdue, and I don't think there's any doubt about it. And we have discussed this bill on a number of occasions in fact, on several occasions, and we have come to the unanimous view that we support it, that we support it in the first reading, in order to develop and elaborate on the second reading a number of mechanisms that would allow us to resolve a set of measures related to the adoption of the bill and that law. First. In addition to adopting the Amnesty Act to date, we need to look more thoroughly and more seriously at those places, so to speak, where these people are, i.e., in places of deprivation of liberty. Develop a mechanism to ensure their work. To consider the mechanism, so to speak, how to date they are financed and ensured by the constitutional rights of citizens. This is one moment. Second moment. We must and clearly understand that in amnesty, some people who have a certain disease are now returning to society and must live a full life here. Many of them do not have housing to date. Many of them have not been employed to date. And the solution to this problem, which today lies with our society, must be clearly addressed. That is, those who return to full life must be sure that their work awaits them, their housing awaits them, their health care is worthy. Third moment. There are a number of people who are infected with infectious diseases and who will also be in our society, and here our medicine must be prepared for these people to be clearly taken into medical records, to be medically controlled. The treatment system should be clearly ensured, and the non-proliferation of the diseases to which they are ill should be ensured. In the complex, all of this suggests that we should work out some kind of barrier measures that would shield our society from social shocks and shocks. While I stress once again, in general, we are behind the ideology enshrined in this bill. We're behind the idea of amnesty. For people who have already served part of the sentence, I think many of them have come to the right conclusions, they are willing to return to full life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u34	Thank you. Alexandrovska. Someone must have pressed the wrong button. Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u35	Thank you. First of all, I want to say that, really, the adoption of this law on time and it had to be adopted much earlier. Our faction took a close look at the problem and determined to support the bill in the first reading. But we have a number of serious comments that we will and will propose to consider in the order of proposals in the drafting of this bill, when preparing it for consideration by the Supreme Council on second reading. In particular, I would like to agree with my colleague, Matthew, that it is very important that we approach the issue of exemption from punishment for the convicted. So we have to be ready for these people to return to our society. And that list of diseases, approved by the State Department’s order to carry out sanctions and the Ministry of Health, should be considered again and again with great care. The other one. We cannot agree with some of the provisions of the proposed draft law on the release from punishment of convicted persons for deliberate crimes that are punishable by deprivation of liberty for a maximum of ten years. Think about who it is. That is, we too need to be very careful when adopting this law in our second reading. This is also true of other articles: Articles 3, for example, and so forth. Nor can we agree with the provision of article 4 regarding the release from detention in the disciplined battalion of military personnel convicted of serious crimes for the first time. Just recently, we remember what happened in one of Poltav district garrisons when a drunken officer shot and killed a soldier. I think all of these issues should be dealt with and brought to the attention of the second reading by a more balanced committee, that is, by removing those that we cannot vote for, which we cannot support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u36	Thank you. Not yet has it been found, more faithful, not recorded. We have the committee's conclusion, the proposal is to take the basis. And the commentaries actually make serious points, but in general, such a law is necessary. So I have every reason to put this project to a vote, to accept it as a basis for the first reading and to entrust the committee to work on it for the second reading. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:26:54]] For 232 For 232. Decision taken, thank you. A draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine marking the 200th anniversary of the resorts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea is under consideration. This is the exact text of this decree. There's nothing to discuss here, actually. Boris Davidovich is ready to report on the substance of the details. Please come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u37	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! On 22 February, the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopted a decree to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the resorts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. However, a number of inaccuracies, disagreements, were then identified by the expert office in preparation for the issuance of the order. And our committee finished them. Therefore, I propose a final draft order for the celebration of the 200th anniversary of the Crimea resorts today to be considered and adopted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u38	It's editorial, I'd say so, legal drafting. This is Stoyan speaking. Stoyan's questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u39	I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, to celebrate 200 years of this kind of health care, but I'd like to ask you a question. Could you tell me what the medical report is today? For example, how much do the Federation of Health Care Professionals owe to today? How many, let's say, Health Department Minochrona? I mean, what are the highest levels of health care available today, and are they still available so that we can celebrate something there? I think that's a question they've been studying. Please give me an answer. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u40	Dear Alexander Nikolayevich, I can't tell you the exact figures today because in all of Crimea's sanatorium, there have been some adjustments because in the last two years, very many trade unionists have been sold and they have become private property today. However, the medical profession has not changed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u41	Boris Davidovich, you can see that Alexander Mikolaiovich was unable to read more carefully after editing the decree, and that is quite another matter. This includes the assignment of the State Television, the Committee on Television and Radio, the National Bank with appropriate assignments, the issuance of coins, postcards, and so forth. That's a little different. Right. Have a seat, please. So we voted on this ruling, we made a legal edition of this document. As some formulations have changed, they simply need to be voted on. I'm asking you to vote on this project as amended. Please, it's on your hands. Please. [[12:30:39]] For 240 Decision taken. On the ratification of the draft law. This is an additional protocol to the agreement between the governments of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation States on cooperation in the provision of emergency assistance, the elimination of emergency situations resulting from natural and technological disasters. First of all, the minister has a minister of state of emergency and protection from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster, Nestor Ivanovich Schufric. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u42	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The bill, which has been tabled for your consideration, provides for the ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of an additional protocol to the Agreement between the Governments of the participating states of the Black Sea Euro-Atlantic cooperation on mutual assistance during the elimination of the consequences of natural and technological emergencies. The bill also defines the mechanism for the creation, operation and status of a network of officers to provide such assistance. Ratification of an additional protocol will allow prompt and timely mutual assistance, exchange information on modern technologies with the aim of preventing emergencies, and if they arise, it is organized and effectively addressed the elimination of their effects internationally. The bill has been reviewed and approved by the relevant Environmental Policy, Environmental and Disaster Management Committee. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the adoption of the bill. Thank you, please support the ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u43	Is there a question for Nestor Ivanovich? If there is, please sign in. Well, I understand that the document is self-explanatory, that there are no threats, and that these problems need to be solved in the societies of the countries that live on the Black Sea, so that doesn't call into question. So, you, Nestor Ivanovich, sit down, please. From the committee, what position was it, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u44	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Thank you, distinguished national MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u45	Introduce yourself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Governments of the States Parties to the Black Sea Economic Cooperation on cooperation in the provision of emergency assistance and the elimination of emergency situations resulting from natural and technological disasters has been introduced for your consideration. The elimination of the consequences of emergencies often requires the mobilization of not only one country but also the involvement of other nations. One of the most problematic issues of such cooperation is the exchange of information, which has a direct impact on the timely delivery of assistance. The legal framework for the additional protocol is the mechanism for the interaction of the relevant services of Ukraine and the countries that are part of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation Organisations in the field of emergency warning and the elimination of their consequences in the Black Sea and on its coasts, as established by the provisions of the ČES Agreement. Subjects to the implementation of the Additional Protocol apart from the MNS are the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Transport and Communications, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of State Border Services. The main science-expert management supports the project. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster, after considering the effects of the Chernobyl disaster on February 21st of the current year at its meeting, decided to recommend its adoption as a whole, i.e. the ratification of treaties. I ask you, Your Honor, to support the draft law on ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Governments of the States Parties to the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, on cooperation in the provision of emergency assistance, and on the elimination of extraordinary situations resulting from natural and technological disasters. Thank you for your attention. Next, the meeting is chaired by the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council, MARTINUKA A.I.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u47	Thank you. Is there a question for the reporter? A co-conspirator from the committee? You don't? Have a seat. Yes, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please sign in. Yes, please, Alexander Baranowski, please. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u48	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The Socialist faction will support this bill, it is essential. We are with you today, for example, when we take only the dangers of the Black Sea and the airspace of the Black Sea. How many times people have died, including the destruction of airplanes! And when all of this is happening in search and rescue, it's only on the terms of any department or ministry. Today, there is an additional agreement that formalizes our actions with all the countries of the Black Sea Basin. And that's why, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, but the position of the faction of the Socialists that this law should be adopted in general today. This will protect our citizens working in the Black Sea basin today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u49	Thank you. Are they still willing to share in the discussion? None. Question completed. I am voting on the draft law, more faithfully, the Act on the Ratification of the Additional Protocol to the Agreement between the Governments of the States Parties to the Black Sea Economic Cooperation on Cooperation in the Provision of Emergency Assistance and the Elimination of Exceptional Situations resulting from Natural and Technological Disasters. Bill number 0061, please. Please vote. [[12:38:05]] For 241 The law is passed. Additional protocol to the Agreement has been ratified. Let us turn to the issues of section “In summary procedure”. But to do so, we need to make a decision. I am voting on the proposal to take decisions on the following issues proposed in today's agenda, under a reduced procedure. Please vote. [[12:38:47]] For 235 The decision to consider a reduced procedure is accepted. Bill No. 2638 is under consideration, draft law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, bill of the government. The first Deputy Minister of Health, Biloval Alexander Mikolayovich, will report. Please. A recent colleague of ours. Please be prepared by the Bachelors of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u50	Thank you. The distinguished Adam Ivanovich, the high-ranking national deputies. It is now proposed by this law that Ukraine, on medical devices, is determined that the State Health Inspectorate of Quality Control is headed by the Chief State Inspector of Ukraine, the Deputy Minister of Health, and who is appointed President of Ukraine. And for what it's worth. the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Constitution, the Act proposes to bring the content of article 14 into line with the Constitution and the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, where it is practically the prerogative of today's appointment of Deputy Secretary of State and Chief Inspector of Medicine to determine or rely on the Cabinet of Ministers for the appointment of the Minister of Health. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u51	Yes, thank you. I see. It's a simplified procedure. Sit down, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u52	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u53	No questions asked. The committee will report to the head of the Committee on the Legislative Provision of Pharmaceutical Activities of the Health Committee, Zurko Petr Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u54	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The Health Committee has considered a bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers to amend article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices. The bill proposes to separate the positions of Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine and Chief State Sanitary Inspector of Ukraine from the quality control of medical devices, as well as to change the order of appointment and discharge from the post of Chief State Inspector of Ukraine from the control and quality of medical supplies. After reviewing the draft bill, the committee does not object to the delimitation of the post of Deputy Minister of Health of Ukraine and Chief State Inspector of Ukraine from the quality control of medical devices. At the same time, the committee believes that the bill requires editorial and technical legal work. First of all, in our opinion, the Chief State Inspector of Ukraine, with the control of the quality of medical supplies, should be appointed and relieved of his office as the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the appointment of the Minister of Health of Ukraine. To this end, we propose paragraph 1 of the bill after the words “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine” to be supplemented by the words “the Minister of Health of Ukraine”. Secondly, when amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, in our view, it is necessary to take into account the changes that have taken place in the structure of the central executive authorities and in particular in the organization of state-owned medical authorities. Yes, pursuant to Presidential decrees of 15 December 1999 on changes in the structure of the central executive branch, number 1573, and on measures to improve the provision of medical supplies and medical supplies to the population on 7 February 2003, number 91, on the basis of the State Committee on Medical and Microbiological Industry, the State Department was established to control the quality, safety and manufacture of medical supplies and medical supplies in the Ministry of Health of Ukraine. And then the successor of this department is the State Department of Medicine and Choice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u55	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u56	At the same time, these changes in the structure of state-owned quality control bodies have not been made to part 6 of article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices, since it still does not determine that State control of the conditions of manufacture of medical devices is carried out by the State Committee of Medical and Microbiological Industry and by its authorized state authorities. In view of the above, and taking into account the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the possibility of adopting the bill, we recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices to be taken as a basis by entrusting the Committee on Health with its second reading, taking into account the observations and proposals made by all subjects of the law of the legislative initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u57	Thank you. Have a seat, Peter Ivanovich. Yes, I'd like a two-pronged, two-pronged procedure. Please sign up. Green and red buttons. Yes, Matvienkov, please. Out of the way, please, microphone. Prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u58	Matweenkov, faction of the Socialist Party. At the faction meeting, we considered this law and that it should be adopted on first reading, although there are some, indeed, technical amendments that need to be agreed upon and need to be corrected. But why are we in principle behind this bill? We believe that it is this post, this person who will be approved of this post, that he faces the enormous responsibility that we have today in the medical field. First. It's the quality of the drugs that we have on the counters today. That drug system that has developed in Ukraine today and that control system that exists behind those drugs that are on the bench shows that it is often either surrogates or counterfeits or even things that do not have any licenses. Therefore, there must be a clear, rigid system of control over what we are selling to our people. This is the first moment. And second moment. It's drug abuse. It's one of the most evil things that can't encourage anyone today. I don't know, so to speak, the MPs who come to the county today are very difficult to answer the question whether we are all in Parliament, the whole of the Government, the entire President's Administration can't deal with drugs like Tramadol or other things that go under the floor today and literally lose our population, literally lose our nation. Therefore, in order to streamline this scheme, we are in favour of streamlining this system in order to establish a clear system of control over those, so to speak, substances that walk, especially narcotic substances, and to establish a normal system of responsibility for those who will be appointed to those positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u59	Thank you. Please, Valentin Matviev, Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u60	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, since such changes to article 14 of the Law on Medical Devices must be accepted, I doubt there is. Because all of this today is clearly in line, above all, with the current requirements of the Constitution and with political reform. Because unfortunately, some of our authorities, and first of all, the President and his dear friends, have not yet realized to this day that we are living with you in a completely different state, the parliamentary-presidential republic. And this is confirmed by today's behavior of so-called opponents in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, their declared actions that aim at positive action are useful to people, to the state, and only to achieve what they want: to return to power. I think that by adopting this law, we should do everything possible and impossible to make this institution, I mean the State Inspectorate of Quality Control of the Health Ministry even more, not yet, but much more effectively, as I've been talking about for the second time today, is being referred to by my colleague Matvienkov in the speech. We have a lot of problems here. And control over the quality of medical supplies should be greatly enhanced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u61	Thank you. Yes, all those who wanted to speak. Moreover, no one opposed this bill. There were two in favour. The bill is under discussion. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Amendments to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Medical Act. [[Registration number 2638]] Please vote. [[12:49:00]] For 240 Adopted in the first reading. Please elaborate on the comments made during the discussion and prepare for the second reading. A draft Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases is under consideration. Here we have the registration numbers 2745 and 2745-1. They're reporting. The first bill is a government bill, reports the First Deputy Minister of Health of the Coastal Health Sergey Petrovich. Please. Get ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u62	Reverend Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases is proposed. Article 8 of the Act defines the financing of preventive and anti - epidemic measures and the treatment of patients with infectious diseases. The second sentence of part two of article 8 is proposed after the words “to the vaccination calendar” to be supplemented by the words “including for the prevention of leprosy”. This will enable the purchase of vaccines for the prevention of freaks at the expense of the State Budget to be centralized and, in due course, to provide them with areas at the proper time and in full. At present, the purchase of these vaccines is made at the expense of local budgets, which does not always provide the full and timely need for it. The required changes are caused by a number of reasons. The situation with the fairy tale in Ukraine is unsatisfactory and tends to worsen. Each year, more than 1.5 thousand species of freaks are registered in Ukraine, including dogs and cats that are the closest to humans. Over the past 10 years, more than 100,000 people have been treated for animal bites each year. Of these, 18 - 20 thousand are assigned to the vaccine. During this period, in 10 years, 21 people were sick and, unfortunately, 21 died, of them: in 2005 – 4, 2006 – 1 and, unfortunately, this year, two people died of leprosy. Only the timely introduction of an anti - robotic vaccine can save a person from a fatal disease — a freak. To vaccinate people who have been bitten each year, it takes about 150,000 doses of vaccine to purchase 4.5 - 5 million dollars. The centralized purchase of an anti-robic vaccine will reduce the cost of its acquisition and allow anti-robic assistance to the population at the right time and in its entirety. The implementation of the law is carried out on an annual basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u63	Let me finish. Please, Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u64	The draft law is accepted without notice, as discussed in the Cabinet of Ministers. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u65	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who's from the committee? Health Committee. Where's Zurko, have you reported on the previous bill? Please. Head of the Committee on Health Care, Zurko Petr Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u66	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs! The committee considered both bills and asked for support for a bill submitted by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u67	Thank you. Yes, please, anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up: two in favour, two in front. Yes, please, Baranovsky. Get ready for Zybenko. Microphone from the location of Baranowski Alexander Petrovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u68	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. The faction will support the bill. You and I have witnessed a recent outbreak of avian influenza in Ukraine last year. And they saw this panic that occurred among the population when people didn't realize it without knowing it, and you remember the individual parts that were then asking questions about vaccination of the population and the whole bird of the disease, that is, when there are no vaccines to this day. And you remember the controversy that was solved in Persian society. So, for this reason, when there are such threats and other infectious diseases that the reporter has been talking about today, and especially in the area of Ukraine, which is spread by wild animals, there are not always any local budgets that have the funds to carry out one or the other vaccinations. And that's why, of course, today, the question is that these funds are budgeted and that's what the state is doing, because these are pretty dangerous diseases. More than that. We know their speed of possible spread. We have cases of infectious diseases and especially among children from different regions of Ukraine. So the law is very right, it is essential in society and I propose to support the drafters and vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u69	Yes, thank you. Please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u70	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Philosophers claim that society is developing in a spiral and that each new branch is on a higher level. Sadly, though, today we have faced a situation that may be an exception to the general rule. In Soviet times, we said good - bye to some of the terrible diseases and thought that we would never return to that situation. Unfortunately, we may have reached this conclusion too early, and so today the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has passed a bill, and there is an alternative project on this subject, but nevertheless there is a real problem today. It is extremely sharp and important that the fight against such dangerous diseases should not be left to, as it were, the amateur level, that is, to address this issue with all the seriousness it requires. Thus, the faction of Communists absolutely supports the need to adopt such a law. Moreover, financing, for example, for the prevention of these diseases really needs to be made from the State budget of Ukraine, because the situation in the local budgets today is very different, and we can't put people in a situation in the local budget. Therefore, the Communist faction supports the bill submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and we believe that it should be adopted today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u71	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Question completed. Let's be clear. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, despite the fact that there are two bills, this is the government bill and the bill of colleague Karpuk, but they are roughly identical, roughly identical to the contents, so we, as it were, have to be determined by these two bills per one. Because the government says that at the expense of the State budget, including the prevention of a fairy tale, our colleague Karpuk says: and also for the prevention of a fairy tale. So it's purely editorial change, but it's essentially the same thing. But I put these bills in order of coming. The first is the government draft of the Act amending article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on Protection of Populations from Infectious Diseases. [[Registration number 2745]] Please vote. [[12:57:57]] For 244 Copy that. Well, let's thank our colleague Karpuku, who is voting with his feet today, for having contributed to the adoption of the bill. It's under review. And perhaps the honourable colleagues, perhaps what your opinion would be about accepting as a whole as a law, because there is no objection to the fact that there is still work to be done here, if the Cabinet of Ministers voluntarily assumes that he is willing to finance similar expenses unforeseeable from the State Budget. I think it's just congratulations. And all of us will understand that we will do the right thing to you. I'm voting on the whole of this bill as a law, 2745. Please be supportive. [[12:59:07]] For 245 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Act amending article 13 of the Ukrainian Act on State Service is under consideration. [[Registration number 2553]] A bill submitted by the government. Reported Chief of State Service Timothy Valentinovich Motrenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u72	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill has a clear direction: to increase the fight against corruption, to ensure the moral purity of the ranks of government officials. It introduces, in this case this 13 article introduces two innovations. First, not only for the first, the second, but for all categories of civil servants, there is a requirement for the complete completion of the declaration, including sections relating to the property at the disposal of the civil servant and bank deposits. Because today this standard is extended only to 1,534 civil servants from 2070. We think there are quite a few categories of civil servants who should also look at this subject. The other one. There is a so - called mechanism that requires a special examination of the information. It is secured by the Cabinet's decree and by the President's decree, but unfortunately, it is not yet in the law that provides for a special examination of the information on education, the invocation of responsibility for corruption and so on by the incomes that were taught to public officials when he came to work. I can honestly tell you, we have a serious problem here. Of the 1,093 persons who were appointed, 1,903 who were appointed during 2005-2006 by the President and Kabmin, we checked only 578, because, unfortunately, this is not the norm of the law; so 53 percent of these people provided unreliable information about themselves. They lied in education, and they filed 33 percent of the financial obligation. Not 16 percent of those participating in entrepreneurial activities indicated that they were involved. The fact that they were drawn to responsibility for corruption did not indicate 14 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u73	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u74	Maintain this position. Thank you. I'm done. During our work at the State Building Committee, we agreed with the comments that we take into account between the first and the second readings. We're going to take down the proposals for the distribution of the requirement to all members of the family, and we're going to put in the bill the bodies that are going to conduct the special inspection, as well as the terms, so on, the order of the test. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who's from the committee? Please, deputy head of the Lukyanov Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished fellow national MPs! In support of the anti-corruption orientation of the bill, as well as the position of the Chief State Service of Ukraine on agreement with the comments made, the Committee approved: recommending to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 109 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, a draft law amending article 13 of the State Service Act, registration number 2553 of 15.11.2006, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to accept as the basis and commission to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government to prepare it for a second reading. A request for support is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u77	Thank you, Vladislav Valentinovich. Please, who is “for”, “against,” please register. Yes, please. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. After him, Pinchuk. Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u78	Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. The socialists support this bill, but we have some observations at the same time. In principle, of course, it is necessary for all government officials to determine the same position for them to declare their income. But if we leave this obligation only for government officials, it seems to me that this law is meaningless, because we know quite clearly that wrongly earned income is generally not declared by government officials, but are now declared to be the income of their family members, their wife, their family, their children, well, maybe godfathers who have nephews, as we see it. In view of this, I would consider it necessary that, in order for it to be effective, it is still necessary to write down and, after the first reading, to supplement this bill with a mandatory declaration of income for all members of the civil servant's family. Then this kind of control can work will, will be effective, eventually we have to do so by adopting similar bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u79	Thank you. Andrew Pavlovich Pinchuk, if you please, the faction of the regions. Microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u80	Pinchuk, faction of regions. In general, by supporting this bill in the fight, indeed, with corruption, I would like to note and agree with the previous colleague that there is still a need to leave the rules on the declaration of family income. And in view of the findings of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government, it is noted that in fact many members of the Committee have commented on the declaration of revenue by government officials and their families will not contribute to ensuring effective control, detection and warning of negative phenomena associated with corruption and misconduct. So I think we need to look at these standards in the process of processing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u81	Thank you. Valentina Matthew, please, against me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u82	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. First of all, I want to say that the proposal put forward by this bill to distribute the obligation to fill out all the chapters of the Income Declaration for all categories of civil servants can indeed not be supported. We will see for ourselves in the practice of today, will be able to make transparency more effective, first of all, of government officials of all categories and to assess their compliance with official incomes. But what is suggested by the project, the honourable Timothy Valentinovich, is not to distribute income declarations to their families, as discussed by previous speakers, is my colleagues, of course, not to agree with this. This will not contribute to the warning, the warning, of all things, the emergence of those phenomena that are primarily related to acts of corruption. And I think that in preparing for the second reading, it would still be necessary to look more closely at the appropriate position of the law, this law with the provisions of the law on combating corruption, and also with the order of conduct, particularly the mandatory special examination of the information submitted by candidates for the occupation of civil servants. Because we have a lot of problems here when, once we've approved a government official's office, we know about his actual income, his property status, and we can't cancel any more decisions. I think you can do that. Next, the meeting is chaired by MOROZ O.O.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u83	Thank you. We have concluded our discussion of the matter. And actually, I take it, is the proposal supported, based on acceptance of this project? I'm voting on the proposal to adopt the draft law as a basis for the first reading. [[13:09:29]] For 241 Decision taken. A bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine on mandatory public social insurance is under consideration. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Galec Georgi Kostinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u84	Dear Alexander Alexander, the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine! The bill is designed to improve the system of compulsory public social insurance by amending certain laws of Ukraine on the issue of compulsory public social insurance regarding the transparency and publicity of social insurance funds. The issue of enabling insured persons to obtain information on the expenditure of social insurance funds and the Ukrainian Pension Fund is now on the table. The bill introduces uniform changes to the Ukrainian Laws “On mandatory public social insurance against accidents at work and occupational diseases that have caused loss of work”, in case of unemployment, in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by burial and birth, as well as the mandatory state pension insurance regarding the obligation to publish publications in official publications of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine reports on the implementation of the budgets of social insurance funds and the Pension Fund of Ukraine. In addition, the bill provides for the introduction of State registrations of regulatory instruments relating to the rights and obligations of insurers and insured persons in the order established for the registration of regulatory acts by the executive authorities. By becoming effective, this law will increase the transparency of the functioning of the social insurance system by involving the public in monitoring the activities of social insurance funds and the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The introduction of this law does not require the state budget. The findings of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office and the Professional Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on social policy and work are positive. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u85	Please have a seat. Vassil Georgiyovich Hara has the floor from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u86	Dear colleagues! The Cabinet of Ministers Bill 2511 is proposed to be adopted with a view to strengthening public and public control over the financial activities of the Social Insurance Fund. In particular, the bill proposes to amend the laws of Ukraine on compulsory State social insurance against accidents at work, compulsory State social insurance in case of unemployment, in connection with temporary disability. The issue is to make the records of these funds public and publish, first and foremost, in the official publications of the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and other media. In addition, proposals are made for two bills, which make such a principled one, may be made by decisions, in the Act on State-wide Social Insurance for the Loss of Employment and the State-wide Compulsory Social Insurance against an accident in proceedings concerning the State registration of regulatory instruments relating to the rights and obligations of insurers and insured persons, in accordance with the procedure established for the registration of regulatory acts by the executive authorities. The parties of employers and trade unions involved in fund management do not object to the adoption of the bill. There is no specific comment on the bill. Unless it is considered essential to our Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which considers that further reasoning is needed to extend to the acts of these bodies, which are self-governing statutes with the Fund and to form them in parity ambushes. But I, and the Committee, believe that, in order to strengthen State control and public control over the activities of the Social Insurance Fund, which we often speak about, can also be adopted. Our Committee therefore requests support for the adoption of its law as a basis. In principle, it could be accepted as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u87	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Two for and two for. Please write down who and how he would like to express himself. As long as the record goes on, it's about making it public in the functioning of the funds. Right? Please, Matthew Valentin Grigorovich Zybenko gives the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u88	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw our attention and attention to society to the fact that, a few years ago, you and I went to the insurance principle of solving many social problems, we created appropriate insurance funds. They have worked for several years, there are positives, there are some negatives that need to be eliminated in the process of practical activity. But since the interests of the insured are at stake, we need to be as responsible and as cautious as possible. If we talk about this bill, it's about trying to make insurance funds as transparent as possible. And that's right, because a person who has a certain amount of money counted into insurance funds has the right to know absolutely everything about what a fund lives on, how it protects its interests with all the consequences that come from it. So the idea is absolutely right. And so the faction of Communists has carefully analyzed this bill and believes it needs to be supported. The only thing we want to look at is the profile committee, the Labour and Social Policy Committee, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which, at the level of executive power, initiate the adoption of this document, I would like to ask very carefully and responsibly to make changes to this law, because, in addition to that, it is about the interests of the insured. The Communist faction will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u89	Thank you. Well, since they don't want to speak up against it, I'd like to point out that they also support the committee's proposal in the first reading, right? Is there no objection? If so, I am voting on the basis of this bill, i.e. the adoption of it in the first reading. Please. [[13:17:00]] For 235 Decision taken. Thank you. Draft Act amending the Code of Labour and the Act on Pay for Work. [[on minimum hourly payment]] John's Natalia Ivanovna, because, yeah, yeah, yeah, he's the deputy minister of labor and social policy. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u90	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Government is proposing to amend the Labour Code and the Pay for Work Act. It's proposed to introduce at the same time a social standard -- a monthly minimum wage, also a minimum hourly wage and basic principles for determining its size. The proposed changes correspond to the International Labour Organization Convention 131, which has been ratified by Ukraine. In doing so, the establishment and review of the minimum wage is maintained, namely, the specific size is established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the submission of the Government in the State Budget Act, taking into account the proposals made by the social partners of trade unions and employers. The bill is aimed at strengthening the social protection of citizens by allowing public guarantees of social protection for part-time workers, temporary, one-time jobs, in the field of services, in the area of private business for entrepreneurs who have gained a share in the labour market. The amendments to articles 85 and 106 of the Labour Code have been made. It is proposed to establish that the increase in monthly and hourly minimum wage is not a reason to increase labour standards, and it is also suggested that workers who work on an hourly pay system should be paid overtime, i.e. at a higher rate, if they are not set to work daily. The bill has a positive conclusion from the Scientific and Experimental Authority, supported by the Profit Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, please accept the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u91	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the committee, please, Jaroslav Mikhailovich Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u92	Dear colleagues! I want to remind everyone that all the political forces that went to the 2006 elections and those who are currently working in this room and those who have left the hall because they are suffering from the insurgency of political psychopathy in spring, and the President of the position, have acknowledged the need to introduce a new state guarantee and a new social standard -- the hourly pay of work. And you know what we took on, I mean coalition and government, took responsibility for the social situation. That is why the committee has considered this bill very carefully under number 2655-1, especially since the bill of the Ukrainian National MP Yuri Miroshnik, who has withdrawn his bill in view of the fact that the bill is more complex and more systematic in determining the implementation of the new norm and, in particular, foresees conditions for determining the hourly minimum wage. The bill provides for the implementation of this rule to supplement existing legislation with new rules, such as Article 85 of the Labour Code to supplement the standard for non-enhancement of labour standards with a view to increasing the monthly and hourly minimum wage. [[It's not just a declarant.]] Article 106 of the Labour Code complements payment standards, such as the overtime of all hours worked by an employee over the statutory length of working time. We believe that the implementation of this standard will contribute to the social protection of those working under a system of custom employment contracts: intermittent work, with different lengths of work, and so forth. Among other things, this will fill in a new legislative context to ensure the implementation of the poverty eradication strategy, the fight against poverty that you and I have adopted here in the convening of this Hall. There is a proposal to adopt this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u93	Thank you. Please write down who wants to say "yes" and "against" this project. Please, Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u94	Dear colleagues, I propose that this bill be sent for finalization and that is why. There has been a long debate on the need to transfer the wage of employees to hourly wages. In fact, that makes sense to the market economy. It is when the employer does not have a large package of orders that he hires people for a specific job, and it is therefore fair to pay an hourly wage. Moreover, the law proposes that overtime be paid in double terms. I mean, if I'm hired for six hours a day, and I'm working seven, I'll get a double. But why do I think this law can't be passed today? In terms of unemployment, in the absence of the loading of industrial enterprises, the shift to hourly wages will throw a mass of people on the streets. Today, all employers will propose to hired workers to enter into new contracts and move on to an hourly salary. In this case, if the employee is not charged with work on the employer's fault, he is deprived of today's legal right to receive two thirds of the salary that was legalized in the contract. That is, the hourly wage removes the employer's responsibility for loading the employee and puts the employee in a disadvantage. Therefore, I propose that this bill be sent for finalization, serious consideration and alignment with the rules that will refer to the mandatory loading of the hired worker and to some extent ensure the protection of the employed. Once again, when businesses are not loaded, when we have high unemployment, the adoption of this law will harm people's rights — the right to work, the right to a decent wage. In the face of an excessive labour force, this law works perfectly in market conditions. I therefore propose that this bill be sent for finalization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u95	Deputy Minister, comment on this question in the form of a closing word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to support the bill of government. And the warnings of the factions of the Communists have absolutely nothing to do with the law. On the contrary, we extend social protection and distribute standards alongside the minimum monthly wage and the preservation of all the current conditions of pay, and we extend to that category of citizens who are unfortunately not covered by government guarantees today. It's a huge area of citizens who work in the private sector who work overtime, who get into actual exploitation without proper government support. I ask you very much to support and accept the bill. If there are proposals for second reading, we are willing to consider them and work with the Communist faction to take these proposals into account. Please accept the bill of government as the basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u97	Dear colleagues, there was a proposal by the Cabinet of Ministers, expressed by the deputy minister, that a committee would work on this document. Jaroslav Suhi made this point. There were comments by Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska, her doubts about the effectiveness of these amendments. But they can be corrected as suggested and reported on in preparation for the second reading. I mean, there's no danger here. If we see any danger, we will write this rule so that there is no danger to those who are employed. I'd like to support you in the first reading. It's a government project, not so many. I'm betting on a vote to take as a basis for the first reading of this project. [[13:26:33]] For 222 There are no votes. So I'm going to make a proposal for further development to fix this project. Please. That was also the offer. To be reexamined in the first reading. But please make your suggestions so that they do. [[13:26:56]] For 239. Copy that. Draft Act supplementing article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. Vladislav Igorovich Mari, Deputy Defence Minister, has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u98	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. For your consideration, there is a draft Act supplementing article six of the Law on the Status of War Veterans, guaranteeing their social protection. The purpose of the bill is to grant persons who were part of the national militia units operating during the Great Homeland War, the status of a participant in hostilities, and the provision of appropriate benefits to them. During this time, members of the Ukrainian People's Army 'On the Status of Veterans and Guarantees of Their Social Protection' are referred to as participants in the war. The vast majority of citizens who were involved in the formation of the national militia later served in the units of the active army. According to valid legislation, they are recognized as participants in hostilities and war invalids. The bill proposes to settle the issue of the recognition of persons involved in hostilities who, as part of national militia formations, participated in hostilities and continued to be in a temporarily occupied territory or were evacuated. The analysis carried out with the members of the Ukrainian Veterans ’ Council shows that the total number of persons who may be recognized as involved in hostilities in the adoption of the law does not exceed thousands. When the bill is adopted, the state budget costs an additional one and a half million dollars a year. The 2007 Act on the State Budget of Ukraine did not provide for expenditure for the implementation of the bill, so the proposed draft law is proposed to be put into effect on 1 January 2008. The bill was considered at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, a meeting of the Supreme Council Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. The Science and Experimental Authority supports the bill. Honourable National Deputies, the Cabinet of Ministers, in view of their strong contribution to the protection of the Fatherland, those who participated in the national militia are asked to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u99	Thank you. Thank you, Igor Vladislavovich. Have a seat, please. The committee is chaired by Eugene Constantin, head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Disabled, and Veterans. Whether or not you'll report it. And then Peter Stepanovich. Well, it was written that way. Please, the committee head himself will report. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u100	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Veterans and Disability Pensioners, is Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, the report on this extremely important, important social bill I would start with, not even this document. You and I had already spent February 13th in this session of the government day-to-day on the state of implementation of Ukrainian legislation on the social and legal and moral protection of war veterans. And then we argued with you that we should be quick to repay our eternal debt to this category of Ukrainian citizens. The Committee on Pensioners of Veterans and Disabled Persons has repeatedly asked government structures to support such a bill, but unfortunately, we have not been heard recently. And today, on behalf of the committee, I would like to thank the anti-crisis coalition, thank the government for having succeeded in passing such a bill. It's really important. This is about the category of Ukrainian citizens who were involved in fighting against Hitler’s fascists in the formations of the national militia. The thing is, really, it's a very small category of Ukrainian citizens who need their social support and for which we need to restore social justice. Moreover, the committee, after considering this draft law, considers it necessary to talk about the following, we propose to support this bill not only in the first reading but also in the first reading. Because we think that actually working on the second reading in this, in this bill is practically nothing. So I propose to support this bill both on the basis and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u101	Are there things that you would like to say with absolute clarity? If so, sign up. If there aren't any, I can put it to a vote. Is there no objection? Then I'm putting this project to a vote. Oh, Bulba wants to say something? Please. He's a military officer. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u102	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. In fact, I'm really involved, because I'm a professional military, and I know, in principle, how the real participants in combat react when we try to compare everyone else or any particular category to this sacred category, because in the end, the victories might not be, indeed, those who go into the attack and win that victory. But in this case, it's obvious that it's perfectly logical to compare members of the national militia, because they did the same thing as an advance soldier, they did the attack, and they won the victory. Similarly, in the back they helped to win this victory. So I know that socialists, the faction of socialists, are absolutely in favour of this bill. And I also propose, by supporting the Communists, that they can be accepted as a law as a whole today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u103	Are there any others? Or maybe we'll vote if we do. Well, Redfoot wants to make his point, too. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u104	Thank you. Sergey Redfoot, faction of the Socialist Party, Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan. I support this bill with all my soul and with all my heart. And first of all, until the recent past, I was the head of the Committee on Veterans and often had meetings with women, those girls who went to the front, took up arms, fought, but not recognized. That's why I think it's going to be these women from the factory. Carl Marx, we have a gift from the anti-crisis coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u105	Thank you. Let's vote on this project. Just in the first, and in general, as proposed by the committee and the developers. I'm betting on voting this project to adopt it and in the first version, on the basis and in general. Please. [[13:35:02]] For 243 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the appointment and release of officials of justice and notary organs is under consideration. The cook of Igor has a word. Please. He is the deputy head of the Judicial Committee. Legal policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u106	Maybe the initiators want to make a statement? Because.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u107	I'm the one in charge of the meeting. You have, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u108	I'm gonna be embarrassed. From the committee. The Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine discussed at its meeting on 20 December 2006, a draft of the bill introduced by the People’s Deputies Pisarenko, Andros, Zubik, Leščinski, Matthew. The adoption of the bill will allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to improve its supervisory function regarding the activities of the organs of justice and notary, and it will help to resolve the issues of appointment and dismissal of certain officials of the judicial and notary organs. I note that Bill No. 2459 establishes that the appointment and dismissal of the Director of the Department of State Executive Services, the Deputy Directors of the Department, the Chief of the Forced Enforcement Department and its Deputy Executive Service, the Chiefs of the State Executive Service of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the districts and cities of Kiev and Sevastopol, their interlocutors, the Chiefs of the Forced Enforcement Department of the State Enforcement Service and their deputies and a number of other persons are proposed to approve, in agreement with the Legal Policy Committee. Accordingly, the bill proposes to amend Ukraine's legislation on notariat, judicial expertise, the Supreme Council Committees and the State Executive Service. He should point out that the committee noted that the adoption of the bill would allow the Supreme Council of Ukraine to carry out its monitoring functions. At the same time, the Committee noted that in the conclusions of the General Scientific and Scientific Administration there are a number of well-founded observations on the non-conformity of the individual provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine. But most of the votes were offered to pass the bill for its adoption as a basis for the first reading. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u109	Have a seat, please. What are the thoughts of the deputies, whether they support the project or not? Please sign up who wants to speak. I would like to point out that the developers of the National Deputies project here are strengthening the supervisory functions of the Supreme Council, recalling the right of the Professional Committee to agree on certain candidates assigned to posts and similarly based on the Scientific and Expert Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u110	First Deputy Minister, let him say so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u111	Now. It suggests not to do so because such functions under the Supreme Council in the Constitution are not foreseen. Apparently, he has a right and a committee. Deputy Minister, please, about this, what will he say? _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexander. Dear colleagues, Miniust does not officially support this bill, which has been tabled by colleagues Korniyczuk, Pisarenko and others in view of the fact that the Constitution is being proposed in the state as a direct norm — the division into legislative, judicial and executive power. The bill proposes that the executives of the committee should be accepted at all. I mean, not the Supreme Council, but the Committee. As a result of which the mandate of the committee is extended to the Supreme Council, only the Attorney General is appointed under Article 85 of the Constitution. That's why it affects the functioning of the Constitution, and we don't strongly support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u112	Well, you may not be supported in the right form, you may not be supported in the right form. The point is that we have a separate law, especially the Law on Combating Organized Crime, where the committee has the right to intervene in the appointment of relevant officials. But in this case, obviously, the rightness has been observed by both ministries, and the administration of our scientific expertise. So what you're looking at in the rule of law is that there's a position on the corresponding structure that is approved by the Cabinet of Ministers. And when changes are needed there, changes will be made and the assignment will be more transparent and reasonable. But nevertheless, the initiators made a proposal, and they're asking for a basis for this document. I put him to the vote. [[13:40:45.]] For 1 Well, that's what the author understands. So this project is considered to be rejected. And I would like to thank the author for this work, because it was really useful, even though to make sure that it doesn't fit the Constitution, you have to always take it as a basis. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship is under consideration. [[concerning the acquisition of work permits]] Developer of this project, Alexander Feldman. Tolstenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u113	I couldn't. I'm sorry. Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u114	Tolstenko - 2489.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u115	Huh?Oh, my God! I was wrong. I'm sorry, 2489. That's not what he called it. On the amendment of the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[on the accusation of the acceptance of the courts]] This is a project by the People's Deputy, Tolstenka. Please report to Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich. Is there a Tolstenko? Dmitry Mikitovich, please. I'm telling you, Oneichuka, who's the reporter, is not in the hall because he's protesting right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u116	Dear National Deputies! The adoption of draft Ukrainian Law No. 2489 amending the Ukrainian Code of Procedure has to do with the need to create measures against the abuse by the parties in the case by their procedural rights. [[on the accusation of the acceptance of the courts]] In particular, court records show that there is a practice in connection with the parties ’ filing of appeals and complaints against the court’s decisions regarding the assignment of cases to a hearing, which under the Master’s Procedural Code cannot be charged either in an appeal or in a cassation order. The relevant actions of the parties in the case are usually aimed at delaying the trial in connection with the transfer of the case to a higher court and are a violation of the provisions of article 22 of the Master’s Procedural Code regarding the obligation of the parties to exercise due process rights in good faith, to show mutual respect for the rights and interests of the other party protected by law. For this reason, the Supreme Court of Ukraine published an information letter that brought to the attention of the lower courts the mechanism for preventing such a violation. However, since the prescribed letter is of a recommendation, the parties to the case and the court are not obliged to comply with the rules set out in the present case and to hear complaints about the dismissals of domestic courts, which are not subject to valid procedural law. The bill provides for amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Conduct for the purpose of providing a statutory position. The adoption of this bill is supported by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, with observations and suggestions. The Committee on Justice decided at its meeting to recommend the bill to the Supreme Council as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u117	Have a seat, please. Since neither Onechuk nor Tolstenka are present for subjective reasons, I suggest you sign up for support or opposition. They support, mostly, I see, MPs. They do not want to take action against this document, which regulates the prosecution procedure, particularly when it comes to court-martialed cases. So I have reason to put this project to a vote as the basis for the first reading. Please, there's a vote. [[13:45:36]] For 218. Who's in charge of getting back to the vote, please? Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[13:46:01]] For 238. I'm voting again on the first reading to accept this project. Please. [[13:46:23]] For 245 Decision taken. Draft Act amending the Law on the Legal Status of Foreigners and Persons Without Citizenship. [[concerning the acquisition of work permits]] In the absence of a reporter and a national deputy from Ukraine Feldman, and a co-reporter from the committee of Yuri Gnatkevich, who also participates in the protest in the way they chose, we take this issue off the table. But I'm betting on a vote on taking it off the table. [[13:47:15]] For 215 Is there a chance to vote? Who's in charge of getting back to the vote? [[13:47:39]] For 243 I'm voting a motion to remove this issue from the current session. There's a vote coming. [[13:48:01]] For 244 Decision taken. Draft Act amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act. [[about a unified overhead]] This is to simplify the procedure related to the crossing of the customs border of Ukraine. The word has the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u118	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! You have been presented with a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act. It is designed to implement a unified CIM/IMSS consignment note in Ukraine. In order to remove the need to transform the transport documents into cross-border railway transmission stations, a large reduction in cargo time and the increase in transit transport within the railway cooperation committee and the international rail transport committee, a unified CIA/IMAF consignment note has been developed. On September 1, 2006, the CIM/IMAF consignment note was approved by the Railway Cooperation Committee, as appendix 22 to the Agreement on International Freight Connections. The unified CIM/IMSS consignment note combines the CIM/IMSS consignment note graphs and contains all the data required for the customs declaration of cargo. A unified consignment note can be used as a cargo customs declaration to implement simplified customs clearance. The application of a unified consignment note will ensure that delivery times are reduced and the cost of shipments reduced by avoiding the transformation of transport documents across borders, and the application of a consignment note as a customs document will provide legal guarantees to rail customers. The adoption of the law does not require additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine. The Committees of the Supreme Council on Legal Policy and European Integration support this bill. In the conclusion of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, it is noted that the first reading of the draft law can be adopted on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u119	Have a seat, please. What thoughts do the deputies have? Write down who wants to speak. Taking into account one line of management that tells us what to write, under what conditions the overhead is given, under what conditions. It's not the other papers, it's the overhead. Did you explain that? I've explained. Please, Polyakov. Urban, I'm sorry, Urbanski out of town.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u120	Urban, Soccer faction. The law is only necessary because it will help improve transit processes through our country. And eventually we're going to start, this is the first time that we're going to eventually start somewhere in a period of time, I hope it's not very long to use our geographical position, I mean our country's position at full capacity. The country must become transitory, this is the first tray. I propose that everyone vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u121	What other suggestions are there? Oh, no? I'm voting on this bill. Voting [[13:52:32]] For 246 Decision taken. I have an offer for you. I'm going to the MPs. We're going to have a Thursday review of the law on budget law, and tomorrow, Parliament will pay a lot of attention to customs, tariff policies in the housing and utility sphere. And today we need to hold more committees to find out where the factions are. So I have a proposal for this: let's take a moment to consider the issues of today's plans, and from 16 o'clock, then we'll work on committees and factions. No objections? Then I put this proposal to the vote. Who's in charge of working all the time, and since 4:00, who's in charge of focusing on committees and factions? [[13:53:37]] For 240 A decision has been made. Thus, the following question is being considered: the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act "On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial". [[It's about blood donors.]] Vasil Grigorovitch Hara will report. Where's Vasil Grigorovich? Please find him, I am announcing a draft law amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[concerning public procurement]] Radziewski Aleksy Vasilovich, please, on the rostrum. Member of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u122	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! The bill proposes to make changes to Ukraine's basic Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, aimed at creating different forms of ownership of the right conditions for increasing the number of jobs assigned to the employment of persons with disabilities and ensuring the implementation of their products within the framework of public procurement. The implementation of the bill does not require any additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. Instead, it will make a real contribution to the integration of people with disabilities into society by ensuring their employment, as well as by encouraging employers to work for people with disabilities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that this bill can be based on the comments and suggestions made. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, Disabled Persons reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine, registration number 2603 of 28.11.2006, submitted by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Zurakov, and recommends that it be accepted in the first reading on the basis of comments and suggestions made. We ask you, honourable national deputies, to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u123	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there an crane? Yes. Please, Alexy Valeriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u124	Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would like this bill to be supported as a basis and as a whole. If possible, support, because this is the employment of persons with disabilities and the creation of new jobs. In today's situation and in life, this law is necessary for persons with disabilities of the second, third and first groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u125	Please write down who wants to participate in the discussion of this project. Red Riding Hood and Cibenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u126	The Red Cross, the Socialist Party faction, the Afghan Veterans' Association. We support this bill by faction. Moreover, I know from personal experience that if a disabled person is able to employ, to enable him to live actively, it is a certain addition to the physical and moral rehabilitation of that person. On the other hand, we have made a very clear warning on the faction that these features of this law will not be used by skilled businesses that will use these enterprises for a banal “buy-sell”. These should really be manufacturing enterprises. Where people will work and find it hard to earn money and rehabilitate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u127	Thank you. Zibenko Petr Sergiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u128	Thank you. The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, I wanted to remind you again that at the previous session, you and I, on Government Day, analyzed the problem of disabled people's employment. Moreover, we talked to you about the implementation of the state’s five - year disability employment program. We talked about many aspects that hinder the citizen of society as a whole, and especially the disabled, to realize their constitutional right to work. Regrettably, today there are enormous problems in businesses, social organizations, and disabled people who work in ordinary businesses. And to compete very often with the production of enterprises of social organizations of people with disabilities, because first of all, half of Ukrainian citizens work there with disabilities, it's very, very difficult. They produce products that are very often of a high quality, but they suffer from these citizens and these businesses first because they don't have a government order for their own produce. That is why, at the request of the Committee, Aleksei Valeriovich Zuravko prepared a draft law to resolve the problem. We discussed the problem at the committee meeting. There are problems in this matter. There are some points that, for example, give rise to some doubt, including in some parts of the MPs. But all members of the committee realize that, at least on the first reading, this document must be accepted. Continue to work on his second reading and solve the problem, since it is now extremely relevant. Because the person who works with a disability doesn't just earn a penny, it works for the family, and eventually it works for society. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u129	Actually, there were only one proposals -- to adopt the law in the first reading as a basis. I'm betting on the vote on this project. [[14:00:58]] For 243 It's a decision, 243 in favor. And it is up to the vote, excuse me, to discuss the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on mandatory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial. [[for Blood Donors]] Reported Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Georgi Kostinovich Galics. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u130	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill proposes to amend the Law “On compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment” in part of the payment of temporary disability assistance to donors of 100 per cent of the average wage on income regardless of the insurance period. The adoption of the proposed changes will allow for the strengthening of social protection for those who voluntarily give free blood and its components in health facilities. The adoption of this law will allow for the regulation of the rules of law in force, in particular by bringing it into line with the Ukrainian Law on Blood Donation and its components. The bill is supported by the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for adoption in the first reading, as well as by the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Economics and Social Partners. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u131	If you would like to make a statement about this law or against it, please write it down. Chechtev has his word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u132	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The bill is aimed at strengthening the social support of donors and foresees a temporary disability payment of 100 percent of the average wage or income, regardless of the length of the insurance system. The proposed changes are due to the need for the introduction of Ukrainian legislation on compulsory public social insurance in relation to temporary loss of work and expenses caused by birth and burial in accordance with the Ukrainian Blood Donation Act and its components. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u133	What will Valentin Grigorovitch Matviev say? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u134	I'd better give Catherine the word Semenovna Samojlik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u135	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u136	Thank you, thank you very much, Valentin Grigorovich. I want to emphasize for all the radio audiences, for our dignitaries. For the people of Ukraine. Until the faction of "Our Ukraine" and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko block the work, because it's entirely independent of them, we are now voting for a very important law that is practically necessary for every Ukrainian citizen. I'll tell you more that this law may even be called a breakthrough, and so, indeed, both the faction of the Communists of Ukraine and the coalition reaffirm their allegiance to the promises of our people's election, vote for this bill to take effect, and so that you can actually use this bill. I would like to emphasize once again that today we have accepted the urgent question for our nation. In the long run, those who have received consultations in the United States and those who have been blessed by the President of Ukraine do not burden themselves with just taking part in the adoption of the laws that you now need very much. They're going to go to you and they're going to be tears of lithium, and in this anti-crisis coalition, they're going to do everything they can to make changes to Ukraine's budget, and to adopt this yielding law to our nation, and very many other laws that will gradually move us to make your life much better. Not the life of Timoshenko and her company, but the life of an ordinary Ukrainian man.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-13-m0.u137	I understand, applause, the desire to support this bill. Right? I put this proposal to the vote as a basis for voting this law. [[14:06:17]] For 235 Decision taken. Deputies! We've completed our consideration of the issues that we've been planning for today, taking down the laws there, you've seen, from the perspective. But I have a request for you. In committees and factions today, look very closely, especially at those laws that deal with budget changes and housing issues, i.e. the production of rules on pricing and tariffs in the communal sphere. These are fundamentally important things. You know, there's a long-term discussion about this in society. I conclude this session, announce the conclusion of Parliament's session. Tomorrow the session will continue at 10 a.m.
