ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u1	Good morning, honourable deputies, other members of the sitting, distinguished citizens of Ukraine, who are watching and listening! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:05:03]] 254 deputies are ready to work. The morning session is open. I want to start a session with a sad report that yesterday, in the 60th year of life, Ukraine's national deputy, Ukraine's well-deserved Biba builder, Vasil Timfiyovich, died prematurely. Please honor his memory for a moment of silence. Please sit down. I'd like to ask the people's deputies to change the order of our meeting to the suggestion of the leaders of the factions of the coalition, of the other participants in our meeting. I want to inform you about the substance of the matter and then make the right suggestions. As you know, last night the President of Ukraine made a statement, more loyally, to the people in which he evaluated the actions of the Constitutional Court, which could obviously be regarded as interference with the judicial branch of power. Absolutely. And then yesterday there was a message that we obviously didn't attach any importance to -- the replacement of the leadership of the Department of Public Protection. Today we saw the results of such a replacement: in the morning the work of the Constitutional Court was blocked, the interior was closed, the judges of the Constitutional Court were not missed, and only the presence of deputies allowed the judges of the Constitutional Court to take the black steps to work. It's no longer the participation of citizens, of certain political forces that tried to block the work of the court, it's interference with the Court of State Protection, which is classified by the Criminal Code as a crime. I think we should accept a document -- a statement on this, an assessment of the situation, including an assessment of the President's actions. And faction leaders suggest that on-the-spot deputies see what is actually done, whether the court is able to work, who is in violation of the laws, and that, by making the appropriate decision or application, you take an hour off so that you can go out, see, and then inform the community and clarify your attitude about the situation, since it is too serious. So I would like to now include in the agenda of the day the question of the application – the danger of usurpation of power, the decision to make, one decision relating to the functioning of the Constitutional Court, in the order of the day, you have this issue of violating an oath by one of the judges of the Constitutional Court elected by the Supreme Council, and then taking a break for one hour. Is such a proposal supported?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u2	Supported. That's why I'm putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's Order on the application of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the risk of usurpation of power by President Yushchenk of Ukraine. I'll put it to the vote. [[10:09:34]] For 249 Decision taken. I'm going to read the statement first, because we're being watched by TV and listened to by radio audiences, Ukrainian citizens. Such a statement. “A statement on the danger of usurpation of power by President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine. On 23 May this year, in his address to the people, President Yushchenko called the constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to recognise the unconstitutional article of the law “On the Court of Justice” concerning the order of appointment for administrative posts in the courts of general jurisdiction. Thus, Victor Yushchenko actually took over the functions of the Constitutional Court. On May 24, the Office of State Protection, subordinated to the President of Ukraine, blocked the premises of the Constitutional Court, obstructing the activities of the single body of constitutional jurisdiction. Such acts are criminalized by the Ukrainian Criminal Code as a crime. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the President's specific exercise of usurpation of power and warns of his personal responsibility for further developments. The Supreme Council of Ukraine requires the Attorney General’s Office to immediately evaluate the facts of criminal acts. In such a situation, Parliament considers it impossible to negotiate and consult between Prime Minister Yanukovic and President Yushchenk until the last actions that go beyond the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine are terminated, since the President's actions are seen as interference with the judiciary with the aim of inadvertent decision-making on the constitutionality of his decrees of 26 April this year. The Supreme Council of Ukraine applies to all officials of the State authorities, requiring that they abide by the provisions of article 60 of the Ukrainian Constitution, which does not require anyone to carry out expressly criminal orders or orders. And we remind you of the legal responsibility for issuing and executing such orders or orders. This is the statement and the determination, the content of which, firstly, to endorse the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the danger of usurpation of power by President Yushchenk of Ukraine. [[added]] And secondly, to submit a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the danger of usurping power by the President of Ukraine to the parliaments and governments of Europe in order to inform them of the threat to the constitutional order in Ukraine. I'm talking about determination right now, then you take the word. Is there any other way of thinking? You have Mikhailo Vasilovich, please Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u3	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Well, since it was a bit unscrupulous today that the Supreme Council met and serious questions and statements were being raised, and the ruling and the draft decree on the release of Steczak from the post of Constitutional Court judge, the faction of the Regions is asking for a thirty - minute recess to determine positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u4	I don't mind. You'd like to do that before you look at the applications. Please, no objection? At half an hour, there's a break, until 10:45. Please, Sergey Petrovich Headate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u5	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! With regard to the ruling, my proposal is to delete the word: “The Supreme Council requires the Attorney General’s Office.” And I'll explain why, and add, to the verdict of the thesis that the President of Ukraine, contrary to the Constitution, has given a mandate or what he has given there. He had the prosecutor’s office oversee the activities of the Constitutional Court, as was the case. The Attorney General's Office is an organ that is not subordinated to either the Supreme Council or the President. The President has no right to give orders to the Attorney General. And the Supreme Council cannot demand it accordingly. Thus, instead of “requires” it could be written: “The Supreme Council requests the Attorney General’s Office to consider whether it is lawful, but it is certain that there is a statement that the President is acting contrary to the Constitution when he gives an order to the Attorney General’s Office. Look at the Constitution, the section of the Public Prosecutor's Office, and look at the whole Constitution, and there's no reason for the President to direct his mission to the Attorney General's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u6	That's an offer. Please, we're not discussing the document right now. Now there's a break for half an hour called for by the faction. And whoever has suggestions for content, please make them, and we will consider them essentially. By 10:45 a recess is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. During the break, members of the faction who took the break took advantage of the opportunity and the time taken. During the break, we lingered a little, and we found out what the content of the application was. Therefore, we will not take a break from this in Parliament, but in the meantime we will continue and make a decision regarding the draft decree and the statement that has been read to you. Editorial clarifications have been made in addition, including suggestions from deputies from different factions. I'm going to reread the content of the statement so that you're consciously giving it to you now, so that you will deliberately approach the vote on this matter. So a statement about the danger of usurping power by President Yushchenk of Ukraine. On May 23, 2007, in his address to the people, President Yushchenko of Ukraine called the constitutional decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 16.05. 07 on the recognition as unconstitutional of articles of the Law on the Court of Justice concerning the appointment of judges for administrative posts. In doing so, not only did the President take over the functions of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine but he also put himself above it. In addition, in excess of its constitutional powers, the President gave the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine a legal assessment of the situation at the Constitutional Court of Ukraine at a time when such a function of the Prosecutor's Office was not provided for in article 127 of the Constitution of Ukraine. On May 24, this year, the Office of State Protection, subordinated to the President of Ukraine, blocked the premises of the Constitutional Court, obstructing the activities of the single body of constitutional jurisdiction. Such acts are criminalized by the Ukrainian criminal code as a crime. The Supreme Council of Ukraine considers the President of Ukraine Yushchenk to be a concrete attempt to usurp power and warns him of his personal responsibility for further developments. The Supreme Council of Ukraine requests the Office of the Attorney-General to immediately give a legal assessment of the obstacles to the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine by the Office of State Protection. In such a situation, Parliament considers it inappropriate to extend any negotiations, consultations between Prime Minister Yanukovic and President Yushchenk of Ukraine, until the President ceases actions that go beyond the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, since the President's actions are seen as interference with the judiciary with the aim of inadvertent decision-making on the constitutionality of his decrees of 26 April of the seventh year. The Supreme Council of Ukraine refers to all officials, state authorities, and demands that the provisions of article 60 of the Constitution of Ukraine be adhered to without any obligation to carry out manifestly criminal orders or orders, and reminds us of the legal responsibility for issuing and carrying out such orders or orders. “ I don’t know This is the content of the statement. Offered. It is legally proven and correct, including to the President and to all those concerned, use the law and the Constitution. Follow the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. And the verdict is this: To approve the application. [[added]] The second is to address the threat of usurpation of power to European parliaments and governments in order to inform them of the threat to the constitutional system in Ukraine. Can we base all this on this? I'm putting the vote on the ground, please. [[11:16:03]] For 253 Any additions, refinements? Please sign in. Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u8	Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u9	Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u10	Dear colleagues! Alexandrovska, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Alexander Alexandrovich! I think, in the second paragraph, “to make a statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the danger of usurping power by the President of Ukraine to the parliaments and governments of Europe”. I believe that “the parliaments and Governments of countries with which we have diplomatic relations should be ruled” because they do not care what happens in the country with which they have diplomatic relations. There is no need to limit itself to the countries of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u11	I'll be honest with you, when the author made a decision and he made such a proposal, I said to myself, you know, it's embarrassing in front of the whole world that this is the kind of thing that has to be addressed. Let's go to European countries and that'll be enough. But if you think about it, let's write it down for everyone. Okay. Please, Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u12	Alexander Alexanderovich! I support Alla Alexandrovna and I think that here we must first point out that we are sending the Council of Europe to the Parliamentary Assembly, because it is the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that is monitoring the situation now in Ukraine. And it's very important that we put that signal there. Including the OSCE, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u13	Yeah, okay. The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u14	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. We support our colleague Marmazov's proposal. It must be the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Now our colleagues, our delegation has left or is leaving for a meeting of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. I would like to remind you that if we have no place in the European Parliament, we are full members in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of EU Europe. So these organizations are just interested in knowing about the real situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u15	Yes, Mondus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u16	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! We have the Act “On the State Protection of the Authorities of Ukraine and Officials”. Article 25 of this Act states paragraph two: “The Chief of State Security of Ukraine systematically informs the Supreme Council of the state of state protection, the protection of human rights and freedoms and the observance of effective legislation.” On the basis of this, I propose that our decision be supplemented by the following paragraph: “In accordance with Article 25 of the Law on the Law of the United Nations, we should hear the information of the Head of State Security on the state of State protection for the protection of human rights and freedoms and the observance of effective legislation.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u17	Thank you, Miroshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u18	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. There, I would like to add, where it comes from involving the President in the work of the court and the prosecutor's office. Since it is an independent constitutional body and a commission cannot be given to him but only to turn to it. And I'd like to pass on the word to Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u19	I propose to soften the point when it comes to a categorical end to the negotiations between the prime minister and the president. I propose this wording: “To ask the question of whether negotiations should continue between the Prime Minister and the President” – and beyond.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u20	Hanno Mikolayevno, let us write it this way: not “considers it inappropriate” but “determinates the question of relevance”, “determinates the question of relevance”. Yeah, is there another offer? Please. Yours has already been counted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u21	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I support the acceptance of this appeal. I've just come from the Constitutional Court, somewhere I've seen how it really happened. This process of entering the judges of the Constitutional Court into a court when all the entrances and exits were blocked, when artificial barriers had to be overcome, when the boys without any form, without a licence, without anything to stand in the way of the judges, without letting them pass, and only the created corridor gave, MPs, national deputies the opportunity to pass. It's not Europe. This cannot happen in the heart of Europe. What rights and freedoms can be discussed? We need to accept and maybe really stop any negotiations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u22	Thank you. That's right. None. Because I almost read another name. Saltus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u23	There's no note, is there?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u24	I'm making a performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u25	He's taking it off. Zybenko. I agree with you, too. So, as amended, I would like to point out, in the text we take into account the amendment of Hanna Herman in the text of the statement for such a situation, Parliament expresses doubts about the relevance of the exercise and so forth. This is true of both the position of the President and the position of the Prime Minister. In the second paragraph, write down a statement to parliaments and governments of countries with which diplomatic and inter-parliamentary institutions are established. I'm once again, but we don't have to write everything down, to the interparliamentary institutions, we'll write where. Yeah. Because there is an inter-parliamentary union, then the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the European Parliament and so on, PACES and so on. This should be done in the third paragraph, and in the second paragraph, the text proposed by Jaroslav Mendus on the status of the security service in accordance with the State Security Service Act. Yeah? No, the point is, what about the information? No, it's not. The thing is, the D.A.'s office has been filed. Intervention. See, once again, the first paragraph says that he put himself over the Constitutional Court, and then he gives the public service to the prosecution, and all of this is an attempt, we think, a usurpation of power. That is, the evaluation is given and the number is tired with regard to the prosecutor's office. Well, please, Chief.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u26	Alexandre Alexandrovich, in the first paragraph there is an evaluation from the point of view of, in principle, the President's statement, and the last paragraph refers to the Supreme Council, which he considers to be interfering with the activities of the judiciary and the prosecutor's office, for the purpose of which it is impossible to reach a decision on the constitutionality of the decree. This is already a specific legal situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u27	Right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u28	It's general and it's specific.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u29	So we put it in, because the President's actions are seen as interference with the judiciary and the prosecutor's office and beyond the text. Thank you for the good tip. Then, with these clarifications, the text of the decree and the statement are put to the vote as a whole. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u30	I'll bet you a vote. [[11:25:26]] For 255 Decision taken. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, today in Bratislava, the Council of Parliaments of the 22 countries of Europe is the Eastern, Central Europe. I have an invitation at the head of our official delegation. Hence, Adam Ivanovich will continue to hold the meeting. But there, of course, by associating with my colleagues, I am obliged to share the essence of what is happening today in Ukraine. In the meantime. [[B in m in s a l in]] In the meantime, I wish you success in parliamentary activities and I am convinced that the truth will win because we are on the side of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u31	Dear colleagues, we are continuing the meeting of the Supreme Council. Let's talk about it. Now we're going to follow the plan as we have today, which is the announcement from the factions of the national deputies, and then we're going to move on to. Is there no objection? Then I'd like you to sign up for the factions. Please, on an individual basis. Yes, dear colleagues, remember whether we greeted the nominees today or not? No, you're welcome. So let's do this mission and let's all say hello to Alexander Yuriovich Vilkula and Ruslan Liszicka with her birthday. Yes, please, Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. Freeman. Matthew's Valentine's Day. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u32	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, our constituents! The developments of the last days, not to mention two months, and even more yesterday’s events confirm that the political situation has become the most threatening since the announcement of Ukraine’s independence, that is, the collapse of the Soviet Union, the phase. Instigated by the rematch forces in its immediate environment in the parliamentary factions of “Our Ukraine”, BUT, in other organizations of aggressive nationalist interpretation, President Yushchenko has been implementing a plan for a coup d'état with Washington. In doing so, he cries out, “Keep the thief, ” and in fact, he has usurped power in the state. I trampled on the Constitution. Cynically, presumptuously and demonstratively violates the laws by its two decrees, issued with violent violations of the Basic Law, effectively blocked the full functioning of the single legislative branch of power. So this one, it turns out, is not enough Banking. Unceremonious pressure is being exerted on the judicial authorities, which are called, on the Constitutional Court’s decision on the constitutionality of the decree, particularly since April 26 of this year. What is the value of yesterday's adoption by the Shevchenkov District Court, aimed at removing the three judges of the Constitutional Court from taking part in the case concerning the constitutionality of the President's decree? I think we should take a little bit more here and look at more detail and what's going on around the Constitutional Court's decision of May 16 on the constitutional application of the Supreme Council of Justice. That's what this was about. But in order for our voters to know the essence of this issue, I would like to emphasize once again. This is an official interpretation of the position of section 5 of article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice in Ukraine on the release of a judge from administrative office. In a statement yesterday, the President said little about the situation in the Constitutional Court, but I will read in the original language: “The only body of constitutional jurisdiction has taken an anti-constitutional decision on the appointment of judges for administrative positions.” I think it's clear to all of us that the legal nihilism of the guarantor of the Constitution has crossed all bounds. In order for us to think more clearly, and what the Constitutional Court has decided, I will quote his decision. “Acknowledgment that does not correspond to the Constitution of Ukraine is an unconstitutional provision of part five of article 20 of the Ukrainian Act on the Court of Justice, according to which the head of the court, the deputy head of the court, is appointed to office and dismissed from office as President of Ukraine.” That's it. And the guarantor of the Constitution ignores the decision of the Supreme Court of Constitutional Jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, consider the state of justice in our country. A normal person, I think, is just getting scary. This was discussed in particular at the parliamentary hearings scheduled to address the problem yesterday, in particular, the problems of the state of justice in our country. The situation in the country has reached its peak. This is confirmed by today’s forceful actions around the Constitutional Court. Thus, further blowing up the atmosphere can lead to severe consequences. We are with you, the Supreme Council, and we are obliged to do our utmost to maintain civil peace. The dictatorship in Ukraine, as the rematchers wish, will not go away. And the Attorney General must speak decisively here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u33	Please, the Freeman is handing Chechtev over. Get ready for Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u34	Dear compatriots, the faction of the Party of Regions has been forced to declare the absolute inadmissibility and harsh condemnation of the actions of the President of Ukraine and his Secretariat to discredit the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists on the sole legal and political importance of ensuring the productivity of the activities of the Constitutional Court in dealing with the current political crisis. The Constitutional Court has been chosen in a legitimate manner. Judges carry out their duties. And that is why they are determined to be punished for the honest and conscientious discharge of their duties. Only political irresponsibility and fear for one’s own actions can be explained by the actions of the President and his Secretariat. The lack of criticism, the psychological inadmissibility of arbitration to their own decrees, have become the foundation that explains all the savagery that surrounds the work of the country’s only constitutional body. Unfortunately, it has to be noted that our political opponents have chosen a political tactic when another mistake in making a legal or political decision is overshadowed by even more violent legal ignorance. As a result, in a relatively short period of time, the country’s judicial system, its authority, and legitimacy were severely hit. The wave of lawlessness, unjustified layoffs, swept the country’s justice system and even reached the Constitutional Court. And this is all happening today in the background that Parliament has already voted in the first reading of the Civil Laws on the judiciary, the status of judges that have allowed systematic and effective solutions to existing problems. The faction of the Party of the Regions condemns today’s presidential environment policy, which brings the country back to a chain reaction of lawlessness, political or even revolutionary relevance, to the irresponsibility used as a means of achieving a political goal in 2004. Today, the situation is being repeated. The object of the attack was the Constitutional Court. Because he is a popular arbitrator in disputes between branches of power in all civilized democratic countries. We're seeing again a large-scale pear company with unproven accusations of corruption, not legitimacy, dishonesty, and so forth. This policy of the President's side deserves solely a legal assessment under criminal law. The faction of the Party of the Regions calls on the President to stop the pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court in any form and allow the court to do its work. We urge the President of Ukraine to recognize the political consequences of the uncontrolled legal actions of the authorities and officials under his control. The break in the work of the Constitutional Court by the President's Office will mean the exit of the President's side from the negotiating process on the peaceful resolution of the crisis in a democratic and honest manner. The faction of the region expresses the sincere expectation that the position of the President of Ukraine in the conduct of political negotiations is based solely on the rule of law, constitutional and other legal norms. We sincerely hope that the newly appointed Deputy Secretary of the RNB Turkey will not lead to a serious and important state body of methods and style of the work of a radical opposition force, one of its leaders. On the other hand, the party of the regions guarantees strict monitoring of all claims and actions by opposition politicians in high office in order to prevent the State authority from becoming a political force force of radical opposition. We warn the President of Ukraine of further unheeded steps that will lead to an escalation of the political conflict. We hope that the President is aware of the level of political responsibility to the people of Ukraine and to the world community for the methods of conducting the political struggle offered to him today by his environment. We remind ourselves once again that the inertia of legal chaos will be virtually impossible to stop, and then the appetites of today's provisional allies of the President will be extremely difficult. Once again, we invite the President of Ukraine to listen to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe: to ensure the work of the Constitutional Court and to implement all its decisions. A party of regions can only support the legal and democratic way of developing the Ukrainian state, and we have no other historical alternatives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u35	Thank you. John Boki, the Socialist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u36	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Last day would have been a complete right to be called one that has demonstrated the completely conductive character of our President's work. Already one appointment as First Deputy Secretary of the National Security Council, Alexander Turchinov, who is in this room, you well remember, a year ago, Stecko was walking in the Passion and putting matches in the card slots to avoid voting, already testifying to the level and moral level of this person. And when Judas Iscariotsky told us yesterday that he was a very moral person, you know, he wanted to laugh, but he wanted to cry. Because if Victor Andryovich Yushchenko is elected to such positions, his business is bad. And that only means that he doesn't have any more staff to pick up either, well, at least decent people on his team. Yesterday’s television performance by Viktor Yushchenka will be featured in the history of Ukrainian humor with a bright page. Where is Zvetsky, Zadornov and Clary Novikovi together? And what's especially valuable is that Yushchenko spoke as a true humorist -- seriously and confidently, not once smiling. And on the other hand, more self-discovery, history may not know. When the discovery of Kuchma was needed by a courageous officer named Mikola Melnichenko and his recordings of talks in the Presidential Office, Yushchenko had all his intentions published in public, not being ashamed of any legal illiteracy or of what publicly violates the law, which is imposed on the judiciary, the prosecutor's office, in public, shamelessly breaks all the constitutional foundations. Did a man really believe he was a messiah? It was yesterday that the president's chief cleric and master of the “tormental colour” called him a strong leader. I'm not saying "called," that's what I'm saying. From this, the head can actually turn, and with the hypertrophated selfishness of Viktor Andriyovich and the E.R. Apparently Yushchenko thinks everyone's stupid, and he's the only one who's smart. Yesterday he called the Constitutional Court a loss of constitutional legitimacy. But Ukrainian citizens are not deaf or blind, they have seen and heard that he has discredited the judges publicly and irrefutablely himself, Yushchenko, with his raider law firm. Not a word has been said by the court about the President's second decree, but the referee is guilty, because she is, you see, not of that political power. Whether it's frost or medieval savagery, you don't get it right away. The Vossiow Court gives the Presidential intervention to the Constitutional Court and Shevchenkovsky to the contrary. How do you feel about a legal vortex? Once again, he was organized in public by Yashchenko and his grief lawyers. And after these manipulations, which even patients in the 6th Chamber are able to understand, they are so obvious to everyone, Yushchenka without a shadow of shame is asking for the support of the people in the war with the Constitutional Court. Crazy and whatever, today this madness has essentially led to the apprehension of the Constitutional Court by order of the President of the Department of State Protection. That the President has a bad lawyer and even a worse humorist who is illiterate within, even a school language course that gave a brilliant testimony to yesterday's TV show, here are philosophers, philosophers, not I, but philosophers, correcting his performance yesterday. Well, it's laughter and grief from a lexical point of view. Stylist and so on. So I'm saying it's obvious to everyone. See if he's a man. Because no one else, namely Yushchenko sweared in Europe, I apologize, he gave me three more minutes of Deputy Savosin. See if he's a man. Because no one else, namely Yushchenko swore in Europe, in Brussels, in the walls of the European Parliament, that he would submit to any decision of the Constitutional Court. Obedience. Now he claims that he does not trust the Constitutional Court. The reason for all of this is that the court does not consider its orders unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u37	Allow me to continue. Please, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u38	But after such a disgrace, we must resign. Yushchenka is essentially being prosecuted by the Constitutional Court. Clearly, such men are not capable of doing so. Who, then, is our president? Usurper, that's clear. But when he stopped being a man. The president's chief cleric and owner of the business mega-company Barva in a comic-paphosic statement yesterday says that public men should stick to the commitment. Interestingly, does he count his patron as such? Fearing the verdict of the Constitutional Court should not make a husband destabilizing and ruining state life, state institutions and the presidency. Otherwise it turns out that one Yushchenko is walking into a couple with a famous adventurer, and the rest is off the hook. A familiar situation from history. And if she's already pulling the President out of such a humorous audience with aggressive appeals against the prosecutor's office, illegal, then maybe it's worth asking, the wonder of which person with national ambitions is turning into a banal author, not a gogolistic image of the rulers. And seriously, it's sad that Ukraine has such a short-lived president. Not in the sense of primitive humor, but in the sense of moral deafness. Ukraine is plagued by drought, in fact, before the threat of famine. And the president, who loves all kinds of hungry walks and dedications, has found nothing wiser than to arrange election choirs with intrigues and entertainments that are not worthy of the head of a great European state. To sign the Remuneration and Retirement Act, he had dry ink, but how to deceive people with something. Some kind of cleansing is like dancing ahead. He fears to clean himself up in the presidential election for the next year, but to teach others how to do so day and night. And since the people are in poverty, it doesn't matter to them. The pensioners are looking forward to a pension, the working people are waiting for a pay raise, and the President is never expected to sign a law adopted by the Supreme Council. You see, he was tired that she was gone. He does not look either at the holiday or at the Constitution, but he lives as he imagined. He waved a decree and thinks Parliament is gone. And there is only one wise master. Oh, my God, where does that come from? One word, a circus with a bad provincial corpse and a worthless director or a black humor, only to live in a country with such a humorist as the President. Who Will Conquer Whom? Ukraine of Yushchenka or Yushchenko of Ukraine? Here's the truth of the Hamlet question, folks! Thank you for your attention. Thank you, Deputy Savoxin, for your three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u39	Thank you. Eugene Marmazov, Communist faction. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u40	Surrender Falco, Deputy Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u41	Falco, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u42	Thank you, Savosin. Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, a venerable presidency! In a meeting with foreign investors, Ukrainian President Viktor Andriyovich Yushchenko sincerely promised that the land in Ukraine would soon become a commodity. Goods belonging to the people, you people! Couldn't be better. The earth must belong to those who work on it, to those who pour salty sweats, and sometimes to those who shed tears. What really belongs to this nation? I remind you of the cartoon, “About the Postman Patchkin”, says: “You have a parcel, but you will not get it, you do not have a document, you do not have a passport.” Ladies and gentlemen! Are there acts of land in our people? Is there already a mechanism for implementation and mortgage? Under the slogans of preparations for the Euro-2012 will begin the handover, under the likes of objects and buildings of the championship, and pastures and grills will go under the walls. And it's going to start with a little bit of green. Dear colleagues! You and I have extended the land moratorium until the end of the year to work together with the government to implement the land market, work land cadastre, issue state acts, etc. What's the status now? Are we ready to give people legitimate grounds for selling land? What will pricing look like? Or once again, like factories and factories, they're privatized for ten bracelets of 50. The raiders have already smelled millions of hectares and are just waiting for the abductions as pioneers in America and will eat up the ranch. Dear colleagues! We were thrown into political conflict to be accused of being inactive and unable to resolve pressing issues in the state. So I think it's necessary for a committee of profile to prepare a hearing on Government Day, or another form, and to inform the Supreme Council and the Ukrainian people about the state of affairs in this issue that is of interest to Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u43	Thank you. Please, Peter Cibenko, get ready for Bondarchuk John.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u44	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! I'm going to start with the main thing, which is that I actually went to this high, state-owned parliamentary rostrum. The festive victory May ends when grateful mankind celebrates the next anniversary of the 20th century of the Great Victory over Hitler’s Fascism. During May, a special respect and thanks were expressed to the heroic frontists, the fearless guerrillas, and the underworld, the famous workers in the rear who forged this victory. This is, as it were, the overwhelming, overall version of the event evaluation. At the same time, in May Ukraine, the world, mankind, received a series of events that unreservedly show that in Ukraine it is not just raising its head but all the way back to fascism. The first of these events is, no doubt, President Viktor Yushchenk of Ukraine at the museum of the Great Homeland War on 9 May. On it, the head of state, the guardian of the Constitution, on the one hand, shocked the victorious frontalists by the fact that, in one row with the gray-headed fascists, he had placed the famous SS leader Roman Shuhevich. Inspired by the President’s high assessment of his fellow thinkers at night with fractures and hooks, they carried out an act of affirmation of the ideology that was completed 62 years ago. I mean another pogrom that was done in Lviv, in this pawn of democracy on the memorials of the dead Soviet soldiers. Then there was an act of burial of a cave - in - the - Crimean nationalist. Then came Lviv’s decision, and now Ternopil’s District Council on Inventory, read, destruction of Soviet monuments. It was literally yesterday that another event took place in this criminal barbaric order. During the night, as is usually done by night-waves and orange - team bandits, without the decision of the Poltava City Council, a memorial stone was placed on the site of the future monument, Simon Petluri, without the consent of the city community. All of this happened traditionally with the involvement of the police and OMON with the compulsory beatings of the people. This list can be continued, it's perfectly legitimate. By their insolent actions, “Our Ukraine” and its honorary head, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, have since confirmed that they are spiritual descendants of Hitler’s fascists. It's pretty obvious. Some point to the absence of an official Kiev response to events in Estonia, but not in Estonia, all of this has begun, and this has started and continues today in Ukraine. That's why the faction requires a thorough investigation by the Attorney General of all these events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u45	Thank you, John Bondarczuk, the Socialist faction, for giving Leluku the floor to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, Deputy Bondarchuk, Socialist faction, Winnitzkin, Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Work. During my last weekend meeting with the voters, while I met with the members of the district assemblies of war children and the electorates of Cosyatina, they once again testified that most of our fellow countrymen did not support the idea of a permanent election. Realizing that there will be no major changes in the political power in Parliament, this will once again provoke a turn of opposition between the main political players and the main political forces. The increasing opposition in society will increase the threat of the country’s dissipation. That hundreds of millions of bracelets that could be used for social purposes, the organization of children’s summer rest, the financial support of health care, and so on, will be thrown into the wind. The voters also ask one question: Why would the negotiators not agree and understand? What Can Be Answered? It is certainly necessary to speed up the settlement of this acute social and political conflict, the reason for which the desire for a rematch by those political forces that have not been implemented since the last parliamentary elections. Everyone calls for compromise, without which it is difficult to resolve a conflict. What is compromise? It is the desire of all sides of the conflict somewhere and in some way to give up, to take a step to meet each other and, if you want, at certain times “to step on the throat of your own song to make it sound like a concerted chorus”. Is there such a desire for those who call themselves opposition? Unfortunately, there is not. I noted that even the weekly “Comments”, which could not be suspected of any special sympathy for the parliamentary coalition and the government in the last issue, noted, quote: in the fact that the parties to the opposition have reentered the wedge, the left side of the fault lies in the Bank's, which has not been able to make any concessions at all. We, the coalition, took our stand by agreeing to hold early elections on the basis of the Constitutional Court’s conclusion. In a situation in terms of legislation, it's in our best interests. The situation is when the Presidential side is disturbed by anything that could have been violated. Now it's the turn of the so-called, opposition that has to understand, take its step and realize that without the necessary changes to the Constitution and electoral legislation that would make it impossible for us to have what we have today, which would guarantee fair and transparent elections, the early elections will not take place because it will be a violation of common sense. The dictatorship in Ukraine will not pass. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u47	Thank you. Please, Oleg Leluk, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u48	Alexei Leluk, faction of the Party of Regions. Respectable citizens, respected colleagues! In the current difficult socio-political situation, the State executive power would appear to be a consolidating force of society. It is she who is responsible for stability in the regions. However, it seems that some local authorities are deliberately exerting pressure and attempting to destabilize the situation. A clear example of the operation of the head of the Poltava Regional Public Administration, Valery Assadchego. Ignoring the opinion of the Poltava public, he alone decides to establish a monument to Simon Petlure in Poltava. At the same time, he chooses a seat for himself in one of the central areas of the city near the premises of the Regional Public Administration and the Regional Council. He does not take into account that even in the city where Petlura was born, the treatment of this person is mixed. The people of the older generation are appreciating his activities very negatively. In addition, the question of the construction of a monument, and more so, was not considered by the city council or its executive committee, namely, those authorities have the right to decide on any architectural forms in the city. However, yesterday, Mr. Assadchiy gathered the Poltavchan for a rally about the location of the stone at the site of the building of the future monument. And speaking on it, Simon Petluru was placed at one level with the world-renowned half-scientist Vladimir Vernadian than caused much indignation by a large number of those present. Moreover, he said that the monument of Petlure must be more glorious than the monument of Vernadian, which was decided by the city authorities. Devoting citizens have tried to avoid such a disgrace as the appearance in the famous city of Poltava of a monument to such a person who has written bloody pages in the history of Ukraine. However, the provocateurs from the national patriotic parties were not afraid to face direct confrontations with the peaceful people. The question arises to the head of administration: “What was the need to open this monument right now? Why is it difficult at this difficult time to provoke tension instead of finding things to eat? Or your inability to work and solve the real, pressing problems of the inhabitants of the region you hide under the mask of historical defenders. Then turn your back on those who can work for the people.” The members of the Party of the Regions strongly state that graves and monuments should not become a bulwark in a dirty political game, a disgrace to the authorities allowing such a thing to happen. Recently, the city council of Lviv supported the proposal to dismantle the Soviet monument located in the city. Following this example, the authorities of Ternopol also decided to explore the possibility of destroying the monuments of the Soviet past in the area. The faction of the Party of the Regions is protesting attempts to audit the heroic pages of our common past. We will not allow the memory of our glorious ancestors to be humiliated and the punishments, traitors and palaces to be lifted up. And the Ukrainian people themselves will come to terms with what they really care about and whose actions they would like to forget as a nightmare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u49	Thank you. Dear colleagues, time is up. In principle, many of you have talked about the problems that we have resolved or tried to resolve in the ruling concerning the latest developments around the Constitutional Court, its decisions and the blockades on the work of the Constitutional Court by the presidential structures. The second part was devoted to the question of the infamous, the disgraceful step taken yesterday by the president's governor in the Poltav region. I don't want to talk a lot, I'd just like to recommend Assadchev, if he hears me, let him read the historical documents of Petluri's thefts during the Civil War, and for what a terrorist act was committed against him, if I'm not mistaken, in April 1926. If he gets to know these documents, I think to someone, and he wouldn't be interested in setting up a monument to this far unhistorical person. Maybe I'm not making it out of my voice. Yeah, let's move on to the day-to-day issues. As we voted with you on Tuesday, you and I are to consider today a draft order for the release of Steczk from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Registration number of Decree 3517-1. Reported by National Deputy Sokil Andriy Alexiyovich. Please. From the Welding Igor Committee to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, your honor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u51	I'm sorry. Dear colleagues, well, I think you understand that we're working without interruptions, considering that you and I have taken a break. No objections? Okay. Please, Andrew Alexiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! A group of members of the Committee on Legal Policy prepared a draft decree by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the release of Steczak from office of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The essence of this determination is the following. On April 10th of this year, Judge Steczek of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, who was elected under the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, made a statement in a group of judges of this court that he refused to participate in the Constitutional Court's consideration of the constitutionality of the President's decree on the dissolution of Parliament, motivating his decision by the pressure they put on them. This reflects a violation of the standards of part one and part two of article 126 of the Ukrainian Constitution. Article 17 of the Constitutional Court Act states that the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine takes office on the day of his oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Part three of the same article states that the said oath consists of a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is held with the participation of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine. In the same article, part two of the text that the judge swears: “I solemnly swear honestly and conscientiously to perform the high duties of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, to ensure the rule of the Constitution of Ukraine, to protect the constitutional order of the state, constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen.” Part one of article 19 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine clearly defines the authority of the judge of the Constitutional Court. First of all, this is a preliminary preparation of questions for their consideration by a panel of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Secondly, the preliminary preparation of questions for their consideration by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. And thirdly, this is the direct participation of the judge in the case. Thus, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Peter Bogdanovich, refused to perform his direct duties, to take part in the case, directly violated the oath of the Constitutional Court judge. That is why the committee made a decision. draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which provides for the release of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Stetsk for violating the judge's oath. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u53	Thank you. Will there be questions? Yes. Please sign in. Yes, please, Isaiah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u54	Please answer that question. Has someone been preparing the replacement or not? Will that leave us without a judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u55	Well, I think I think that according to the Supreme Council faction, a coalition will be considered and a proposal will be made accordingly. [[Thank you for asking.]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u56	The point is, in exchange, you need either 150 signatures of the national MPs, or others. I mean, we have to hold on, we have to have room, we haven't released the judge yet. Herman, please,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u57	Can't we consider that when Judge Steczek was elected, he couldn't have known that he would have to work under such fierce pressure on constitutional judges on the part of the President's secretariat. Not all people are equally brave, not all people can take such courageous steps, such as Judge Stanick, who today, despite not being allowed to work, has come there. Perhaps we should consider these circumstances, and today we should postpone the vote on this matter?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u58	Thank you, Anna Mihaylovna, for asking. Of course, every judge who takes an oath to the judge of the Constitutional Court considers all the nuances you speak of. And he chooses his own course accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u59	Please, Bogchuk Vasil.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u60	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I fully support the proposal that we need to make with the Constitutional Court Judge Steczak. And somewhere against that position that Hanna Mikhailevna was talking about, that he might not have known. He knew everything. Because after the trial was scheduled, he took the initiative, held a press conference, stated a clear position that prohibited him from the Constitutional Court Act, which prohibited the Constitution, before the Constitutional Court decided to express its position on support for a decision. He stated that the President's decree was valid, that the decree was consistent with the Constitution, that it was within the mandate given to the President and so on. He held a press conference, he gave interviews to the media and so on and so forth, which is strictly prohibited by the Constitutional Court Act. There's a breach of oath. And I think it should be severely punished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u61	I just want to thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u62	Vladimir Pehota, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u63	I would like to ask you a question about the legal purity of our decision, because from a moral point of view, I support all those who speak and I have no questions here. According to my data, Steczek is in the hospital right now. Is that how it is or not? If so, how it goes from the same positions that we have considered, which we have dealt with in other courts. And we must use, in addition to our emotions, the laws and regulations that are in the Constitution, the Constitutional Court Act and the Constitutional Court Rules. As they have been kept, I will vote in favour, if not, so that we don't have another thought tomorrow or any other position that we should have been in the same way that we made decisions on some other issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u64	Thank you for asking. Of course, I think it was very appropriate to address this question to Bank. It would be very good for many of the questions that apply to these assignments. With regard to Judge Statsuk, there was no information on the committee that he was at the hospital. Hence, the issue was raised for a sessional consideration of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u65	Thank you, Andrey Alexiovich, sit down, please. Deputy Head of the Legal Policy Committee, Igor Teodorovich Zvarić, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy reviewed the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine order on the release of Staczek Petra Bogdanović from office of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, registration number 3517-1 of 7 May 2007 at its meeting, together with a project on the termination of the powers of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, registration number 3517 of the same date. [[Author Illashov, Andros, Zubik, Sokil]] [[authors of national MPs Illashov and Zvaric]] As discussed at the meeting on 11 May this year, I would like to point out immediately in response to the question of the Pehota People's Chamber, here is the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of 10 May, the text of the official statement of the Constitutional Court, which first states that the Constitutional Court knows about the initiation of the matter before the Supreme Council, and secondly, Judge Steczuk listed in the composition of the judges of the Constitutional Court, who took this decision on 10th. During the consideration of these bills, these draft regulations are set out as follows: the authors of Project No. 3517, which is broader by the scope of legal regulation, including itself.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u67	Igor Teodorovich, I'm sorry, I've read the committee's decision, and I'm still asking you to pay attention today to just 3517-1 -- the broader decision that the committee made the right decision on, I don't deny it, but we'll talk about it in the next plenary week. Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u68	Adam Ivanovich, I will.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u69	Okay, okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u70	But since the committee has adopted a general decision that covers itself and the decision that is being made, I'm stressing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u71	Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u72	That is, the draft of Decree 3517-1, which is being considered today, is precisely about the release of Steczek Petr Bogdanović, who is appointed under the quota of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I would like to remind you that Steck Peter Bogdanovich has been appointed judge of the Constitutional Court by the Supreme Council of Ukraine since the fourth of August of this year, number 84-5. On the same day, on the fourth of August of this year, he took office as a judge of the Constitutional Court, in accordance with article 17 of the Ukrainian Law on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the oath of the judge of the Constitutional Court at a meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the presence of the President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, and this is confirmed by the withdrawal from the minutes of the 36th evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since the fourth of August of this year, number 47. As established by the Committee, on 10 April of this year, Judge Stitchik Peter Bogdanovic, together with other judges, today, made a political statement on the content and effect of the statement, while making his own statements and assessments on the constitutional submission of 53 Ukrainian national deputies on the unconstitutional recognition of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine since the second of April of this year, number 264/2007, directly violating the oath of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in respect of the honest and conscientious performance of the high duties of the judge, expressing objective doubts about its objectivity, impartiality and independence, and following a violation of article six of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. In addition, as the reporter pointed out, the application contains a direct refusal to participate in the case. Thus, in line with the provisions of article 85, paragraph 26, paragraphs four and five of article 126, and article 149 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Committee recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the draft decree referred to at today’s meeting. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u73	Thank you, Igor Theodoreovich. Any questions? Please sign up. Mikola Kravchenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u74	Please tell me. I had just returned from the Constitutional Court, where journalists had asked the question of the procedure for the resignation of a judge. The Chairman of the Regulatory Committee addressed us. He unequivocally stated that no judge from any branch of authority recommended by the judges had a trial or conduct. I have a question: it's written. Is there a procedure that doesn't make us look like Yushchenko today who, someone said something wrong, he fired once? Today, just so you know, he has already appointed Opanasenko as Head of the State Security Service today. I mean, you know, we don't play around here. And I'm here to clean it up, but we don't want to mess it up here. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u75	Dear colleagues, this is really a matter of concern and concern to the committee on legal policy. We have carefully studied the relevant provisions of the Constitution, law and regulation, including the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. There is paragraph 63: exemption from office of judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine for breach of oath. I would like to stress the wording of this paragraph: “In the event of a violation in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of a violation of an oath by a judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine shall carry out a review and, at the conclusion of a standing committee on rules and ethics, shall take one of these decisions.” Keep following the text. Therefore, is it important that the Constitutional Court is aware of the violation of this issue in the Supreme Council of Ukraine? I hold in my hands the text of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to approve the text of the official statement of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of May 10, 2007, which states: “It raises concern for species.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u76	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u77	decrees on the release from office of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: wheat, stable, Yvashchenka and the registration on 8 May 2007 in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of draft Decisions on the termination of the powers of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: Kampala, Laka, Machuzak, Shishkina and on the dismissal of Judge Steczuk.” That is, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is aware of the violation in the Supreme Council of this matter. At the same time, the regulations are not prescribed when their regulatory committee is to sit down. Or is he actually going to sit down? And that's obviously why, yes, and obviously that's why it's announced today that the regulatory committee has not met. And besides, I would like to apologize for your further attention, to say that, in accordance with paragraph 69 of this same regulation, the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, who has been violated the question of discharge, is given the opportunity to explain his explanations to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine orally, or in writing. I don't know about the Constitutional Court, but the Committee and the Supreme Council didn't. That is, during this long period of 10 or, more specifically, of the 8th May Constitutional Court Judge Stetsuk had. I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u78	Thank you, Igor Theodoreovich. Have a seat, please. Please sign up for the factions. Please, on an individual basis. Mikola Sadowa, please, microphone out of place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u79	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The question is certainly of great importance. And with regard to the actions of the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Council, of course, should act within the framework of the law and evaluate actions, including those of the Constitutional Court only within the framework of the Constitution. Therefore, once we have been informed by the appropriate commission that there was a breach of the oath by Judge Steczek, who was just assigned by the quota of the Supreme Council, he must also be responsible for his actions in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, in accordance with the requirements of applicable legislation. And there can be no retreat. However, we also need to consider that there was no meeting with Steczek. We also need to find out with him a number of points, a series of actions, and why he is doing so. That's the first one. Next. We certainly should not be like the actions of the President, who, on the right and on the left, has been fighting the Constitutional Court for more than two months. So it's probably the right thing to do if we talk about this question today, especially the fact that Steczek is in the hospital right now, and we're not going to put this to a vote. There is an offer to discuss. I think Steczek will know that in the Supreme Council, he's worried that he's breaking his oath, breaking his laws, and we can vote any time. Moreover, the whole of Europe is just concerned that the President has stood by and taken a position of violation of both the Constitution and the current legislation. So I'm going to go to my colleagues, let's be careful and move the vote to a different time so that we don't finally solve this issue today, until we figure out all the reasons for this action, and we'll find out the legal issues and problems with Steczk's actions as a member of the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u80	Thank you. Yes, the discussion is over. I'm putting to the vote an order of number 3517-1 on the release of Steczk from office as judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please vote. [[12:22:15]] For 233 Decision taken. I, my esteemed colleagues, recall the corresponding article of the Constitution, which says that the body that appoints the judge has the right and there are listed reasons, including one of the reasons for breaking the oath and releasing it. Unlike the President who dismissed the judges, we've been preparing this issue for you for a long time, and his question has been brought to light in advance, because when the ruling was made, we've given an order, a protocol commission for the committee to prepare the matter for the meeting of the Supreme Council. A few days ago, you and I had made a special decision to hear this question today, and again, we had the task of assigning it to a profile committee, and from that point of view, we had the Legal Policy Committee to study it. I support those who say they should be invited, perhaps it would be best for the judge to come here, but there is no great regret, and what to do if the judge ignores that request. And you know that there are plenty of such questions, because in the vast majority of us, the judges, in great regret, are very independent of our conscience and the law. And that's the problem, and yesterday, when we were holding parliamentary hearings, we talked about it. Let's go to chapter two. A draft Law amending the Ukrainian Criminal Code to combat nuclear terrorism is under consideration in connection with the ratification of the International Convention on the Suppression of Acts of Nuclear Terrorism. Registration number 2695, reports Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich, Borschewski of the Committee, please Secretary of the Committee on Legal Protection.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u81	Borszewski, Secretary of the Communist Party faction committee. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Today we have to consider in our second reading bill 2695 on amending and supplementing the Criminal Code in connection with the ratification of the convention on combating acts of nuclear terrorism. The fulfilment of international obligations is, in my view, the main condition for Ukraine’s full participation in current international processes. This bill is aimed at bringing domestic legislation into line with the rules of the international treaty. So I want to stop at the legal features of that editorial that is prepared for the second reading. I will note that the committee voted twice in favour of the bill, since the first edition recommended by the committee for the second reading received significant comments from the General Legal Directorate. We appealed to the subject of the legislative initiative, and the Cabinet of Ministers expressed its support for the editorial work proposed by the Chief Legal Directorate. After some debates, the committee agreed. Now essentially. First, minor editorial changes are made to articles 201 and 414 which bring terminology into line with the convention. Second, it is complemented by article 265 of the Criminal Code in part three, which introduces new characterizations of crime, such as the repetitive commission of crimes by a previous conspiracy group of persons, the effects of property damage or significant pollution of the environment. Note reveals the meaning of the concept of great size, material damage to this article. Thirdly, the Code proposes to supplement article 265-1 with “Illicit manufacturing of a nuclear explosive device or device that dissipates radioactive material or emits radiation”. Part two and part three of the proposed article are aimed at differentiation of criminal responsibility and impose increased sanctions for burdensome circumstances. In general, out of the 11 suggestions made in writing, the vast majority are counted. In summary, I will say that the adoption of this bill will be an important step on Ukraine's path towards fully harmonising domestic legislation with international standards and I ask that it be supported. The adoption of this law will allow for a more effective fight against terrorism, including the use of radioactive materials.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u82	Thank you. Follow the second reading procedure, the first amendment of Sinchenko is counted. The skinmaker’s friend is counted. The third is partially non-emphasis. Bronnick's on the clock, not insisting. Stretovic, number five. Here is Gritsaka, the tenth is rejected, does not insist. I refer to a colleague who has a comment on an amendment or not, and he insists on voting an amendment, or an amendment taken into account, but he has a objection. You don't? Then I am voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading, as a whole, of a bill under number 2695 amending the Criminal Code of Ukraine to combat nuclear terrorism in connection with the ratification of an international convention to combat acts of nuclear terrorism. Please vote. [[12:28:20]] For 231 The decision has been taken, the Law has been adopted more precisely. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, registration number 2510 from the Committee on Economic Policy, is under consideration. [[on specialized metallurgical processing enterprises and calculations in metallurgy]] [[second reading]] A report from Europeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, Bill 2510 was discussed on 21 April in this first reading room. Thereafter, it was amended, with only two amendments to the bill. The Committee has considered these amendments and considers them important and eligible. They are concluded as follows. The first amendment concerns article 1 of the Act. The bill did not take into account the fact that certain enterprises, such as public enterprises, with 100 per cent State ownership, do not have property rights and are entitled to economic rights. It was therefore proposed to amend and maintain specialized enterprises that were involved in collecting and reprocessing scrap metal to include the obligation to have them or to own special equipment or to have such equipment on the right of full-time management, as a public enterprise did. The second amendment concerns the amendment to paragraph 4 of the bill concerning the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to make certain changes to the existing legislation on the introduction of it in accordance with the law. The Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine, taking into account these amendments, adopt the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u84	Yes, thank you. Dear colleagues, we follow the procedure of second reading. Colleague Rubansky, taken into account in editorial and platinum terms. It's all accounted for. I think it's absolutely right that the main thing that you can think of as specialized is the enterprise that, in addition to everything else, has the right to do so, the licenses. Because you can have both the equipment and you can call yourself whatever you want, but you have to have permission. Then I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a law, the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Metallurgical Law, registration number 2510, please support. [[12:31:34]] For 236 The law is passed. Thank you. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, registration No. 2562, is under consideration. [[concerning adoption]] The Committee on Youth Politics, Sports, and Tourism Secretary Filindash Evgen Vasilovich reports. I always ask, why adoption or what? There's something about gender that's not right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u85	We'll have to take the next one into account. Dear Adam Ivanovich, national deputies, radio and television! The Committee on Family and Youth Policy, Sport and Tourism has considered the draft Law on Amendments to some Ukrainian legislation on adoption introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine Tomenko, Bondarenko, Levchenko, Grezak, Filindash. The Committee reports to the Supreme Council that the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian legislation on adoption was reviewed on 19 April 2007 and finalized in accordance with Supreme Council Regulation No. 7865 of 20 March 2007 as a result of its discussion at the meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thus, the commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been carried out. As a result of this work, you can see in a comparative table to the second reading that you've been given, a statement by the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration that came into the bill included. Proposals made by Ukrainian national deputies are partially taken into account. Honorary colleagues, the committee proposes to adopt, on second reading and in general, a revised draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Legislation on Adoption, taking into account the amendments adopted by the committee to the legislative initiative. The only thing I'm saying is, I've been talking to you literally in a few minutes before I'm discussing the question with Deputy Safiullin, and he's one of his rights to article 211, he's taking it down. So this is where she was accounted for, and Deputy Safiullin, he's not here right now, said he's taking this amendment off. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u86	Thank you. Dear colleagues, then let's first deal with this amendment, maybe this is the 7th amendment of colleague Safiullin, and then we'll be with the others. Since the amendment is taken into account and there is no amendment, then let's do it, look, he suggested that we write down such a sentence “the difference between an adopter and a child cannot be more than 44 years old, except in cases where the adopter is a person who according to legislation has the predominant right to adopt a child. Well, if a child, if a child is one year old and one wants to adopt, 46 years old, I don't think that's the limit age for a person, especially where the average age is 75 and 80 years. It's been a long time. And the civilized nations are others. So let's follow the rules, I propose to support the motion to withdraw this amendment by voting. Please vote. Vote. [[12:35:31]] For 233 Once again, amendment number seven, at the request of a colleague of Safiulin, was removed because the committee counted it. Yes, Korniyczuk, partially accounted for, Safiulin, second counted. Pauline, the rejected third. Please, it's Edward Pavlenko's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u87	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I propose to reject the amendment to article 212 proposed by the committee, since the rules governing foreign adoption are the subject of article 283, chapter 6 of the Ukrainian Family Code, not 212 articles. I propose that the amendment be taken fully into account and translated into article 283. After all, when we accept the changes to article 212, there is no change in article 283 that contradicts one another. Article 283 in the adoption of a child who is a Ukrainian citizen cannot be a foreigner who is in a marriage. And changes are proposed, except when a foreigner is a parent of a child. I therefore suggest that we consider the amendment to article 212 to be an amendment to article 283. In the proposed changes to article 283, there is no link to part except when a foreigner is a relative. Thank you for your attention. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u88	Yes, Edward Ivanovich, well, you went a little further. I asked you about the third amendment. It had a bearing on 211 articles. I understand you have no objection to that. Then 212, 283 please, Eugene. What's the committee's opinion?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u89	Well, there's some sense in what the colleague said, but at the same time we're still in a position to suggest what the editorial is, because it's more clearly, in our opinion, regulating this position and setting this limit which is, well, the committee stays in the previous position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u90	I mean, I've come to realize that my colleague, Paulenko, is proposing that I don't touch 212 articles, but leave it in its proper form. Here, however, colleague Safiullin proposes, and Montenegro, to add the point that “it is a foreigner who is not married, except when a foreigner is a parent of a child”. I mean, if I understand correctly, it is forbidden to adopt foreigners who are not married except when a foreigner is a parent of a child. I think it's okay, I think. Let's just agree to keep it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u91	There are many cases where people were simply adopted or with an unconventional orientation of children and still who were not married, and it was even more difficult to control children, especially with regard to foreigners. There have been cases where our children have suffered from this, so we insist that such a standard be clearly indicated here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u92	Well, I think you understand what this is about. Let's probably get Edward Ivanovich on board now, yeah. Let's leave it as it is. You stay, then I'll put Pauline's proposal to the vote. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:39:13]] For-188. I think we did the right thing to you. Yes, all the other amendments are included, so I'm voting on adoption as a whole as a law. Bill No. 2562 amending some Ukrainian legislation on adoption. Please vote. [[12:39:49]] For 238. The law is passed. Thank you. Let us go to the chapter “To review the proposals of the President of Ukraine”. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Civil Code on Share Management is being considered with proposals from the President of Ukraine. [[Registration number 2182]] We've got two cooks here. I think we're gonna do it alone. Please, Mr. Igor Teodorovitch is the deputy head of the Legal Policy Committee. President Zvaric's representative is ignoring us. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u93	Dear colleagues, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Legal Policy, having considered at its meeting on 18 April the proposal of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Civil Code for the Management of Shareholders' Associations, to the registration number from 12.03. 07:2182, in general, concluded that it could be agreed with, since the marked changes that envisaged the deletion of article 159, paragraph two, of the Civil Code of Ukraine concerning the creation and recall of executive and other bodies of society could indeed limit the ability of shareholders to participate directly, I stress, directly to participate in the management of society. Such changes do not fully comply with constitutional principles regarding the integrity of private property rights, the protection by the State of all property rights subjects, article 41 of the second part of article 13 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the inadmissibility of narrowing the content and scope of existing rights when amending existing laws, article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Unlike the stated individual committee members, it was not about election, as stated by the President of Ukraine, but about the formation and recalling of the executive and other bodies of society, such as without determining the order for their members to be elected. In turn, the issue of personal formation of the executive body is not regulated at all by the Civil Code, but is governed by the Law on Economic Society, which does not refer to the exclusive competence of the general congregation in its article 51. Then, the contradictions of the law promised by the Constitution of Ukraine are not seen and this can be a valid basis for the Ukrainian people's deputies to disagree with the proposals of the President of Ukraine, we understand that. In its conclusion of March 29th, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office also proposes to accept these proposals only partially. However, in general, in the final summary, the Committee on Legal Policy decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Civil Code, not wanting to intensify relations with him, to support the return to a comprehensive settlement of this general not so much the principle of a coalition in conditions of proper constructive rather than the monarchy of the President, especially his Secretariat, to the universally elected parliament as the only body of the legislative authority in Ukraine. [[on the management of stock companies]] I've got everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u94	Yes, you wisely turned the last sentence. Are there any questions? No, I'm fine. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, the committee proposes to support the President's proposal to reject the bill. That is why I am voting on the President's proposal to reject the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Civil Code, registration number 2182. [[on the management of stock companies]] Please vote. [[12:44:02]] For 229 Decision taken. The Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Procuratorship, with proposals by the President of Ukraine, registration number 2428, is under consideration. He was to report President Zvaric’s proposals, but he was ignoring his duties. From the committee member of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Malinovska Oleksy Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u95	Dear colleagues, on March 23, this year, the Supreme Council passed the Act “On Amendments to the Ukrainian Procuratorial Act”, which provides for amendments to articles 2 and 5 of the Ukrainian Procurator's Act on Compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine's Order and Release of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, as well as additional supervision of the observance of human and civil rights and freedoms, compliance with the laws of the executive authorities, local self-government authorities, their officials and officials. The president of Ukraine vetoed this law by directing his proposals to the Supreme Council. In general, the President's remarks are about proposing that this law be rejected. On May 16, this year, the bill was considered by the Committee on Legislative Security. Taking into account that a new draft of the Procuratorial Act is currently under way at the final stage of the committee, the committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to support the proposal of the President of Ukraine to reject the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act. Once again, I stress, given that we have a new version of the Pro Prosecutor's Office Act at the final stage, a request to support the President's proposal and to reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u96	Yes, are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. I am voting for the rejection of Ukraine's Law 2428 on the amendment of Ukraine's Pro-Procuratorial Act. Please vote. [[12:46:17]] For 246 Decision taken. But the postfactum I'll tell you, the honourable colleagues that we wrote in the Procurator's Office Act, in the amendment to the Procurator's Act, we've written down what comes out of the changes to the Constitution, we've come up with nothing new. We have rewritten the rules on the order of release and appointment of the Attorney General arising from the changes to the Constitution and recorded part of the fact that the Attorney General's Office, in accordance with article 122, part five, is overseeing the observance of human rights and freedoms. Why the guarantor of the Constitution denies the Constitution is difficult to explain, it is difficult to explain. But here's the situation. We have what we have. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Master Code with proposals by the President of Ukraine since April 10th. Registration number 0909. From the committee, the head of the Economic Policy Subcommittee, Mr. Yuri Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u97	Draft Law 0906 is a government bill. Its essence was to amend the Ukrainian Economic Code and the Ukrainian Civil Code on a number of rules that conflicted with each other. In doing so, we have amended the bill and brought it into line. This bill has been vetoed by the President of Ukraine and has been offered to us by the President of Ukraine. The substance of the President's comments was that he felt that those contradictions were not fully addressed and not fully addressed. He listed which were not specifically included in the bill. However, for some reason, I don't know if it was a mistake, or a technical one, or any other, the employees of the President's Administration who prepared the President's proposals, whether they were guided by a different version of the bill, i.e. they made comments to those who were not entirely in the bill itself. In particular, they proposed to amend article 33 of the Law on the Economic Code, yes, and this article was deleted by the bill at all. Well, there are other comments. However, three of the President's comments are correct. The Committee, having considered them at its meeting, invites the Supreme Council of Ukraine to take them into account. This includes the deletion of the words “antitrust competition policy” from article 22 of the Economic Code of Ukraine, the deletion of the words “co-operative enterprises” from article 94, since we have amended the law and called them “co-producers”. In addition, the words “corporate enterprise” should also be deleted from paragraph 6 of article 98. All the remaining comments of the President are considered incorrect and we invite the Supreme Council to approve the bill, taking into account the three Presidential proposals that are proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u98	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. We're going to have a more complicated procedure here. The first proposal that the committee didn't support, but this is the President's proposal, we have to consider it first, we have to put his proposal to a vote, he's proposing to reject the law. I'd like to make a statement. [[12:50:34]] For -6 Not accepted. The committee proposes to consider part of the President's proposals. But in order for us to be able to adopt this law, taking into account the President's proposals, we need at least three hundred votes. That's why I'm voting on the proposal to refer to the bill's profile committee number 0906. Please vote in favour of the committee's redrafting. [[12:51:21]] For 245 And after the committee is working on it, we'll have the opportunity and the simple majority of the 226 votes in the new edition to keep the president going. Yes, we solved that question. A decree, or a series of decrees, for the appointment of out - of - turn elections for individual village heads. The deputy head of the Lukyanov Committee, Vladislav Valentinovich, will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, national deputies. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government was commissioned to consider the appeals of individual village councils, which requested the appointment of appropriate village heads on an orderly basis. This issue has been raised in connection with the timely suspension of the powers of these rural heads, in accordance with the first part of article 79 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine, in relation to a personal application to the relevant council for the establishment of the powers of the rural heads. The Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in connection with local authorities and local authorities, I believe that it is appropriate to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the election of these village heads be ordered on an orderly basis. In view of the fact that, according to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Law of Ukraine, "On Elections of Deputies of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Local Councils and Rural, Rural, Urban Heads", the elections of the rural heads are appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine no later than 70 days before the election day. At its meeting on May 23, 2007, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the appointment of these village heads for Sunday, August 5, 2007. Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee, have submitted appropriate draft regulations for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u100	Thank you. Will there be questions? It's all clear. Then I put to the vote the order number 3562 on the election of the Bikovian Rural Head, the Krynic district of Dnipropetrovsk, for the August 5th election. Please vote. [[12:54:19]] For 242 It's an order. Order No. 3562-1 on the appointment of the consecutive elections of the Buzek Rural Head, the New York area of the Mikolai district. Vote. [[12:54:46]] For 235 Copy that. Order number 3562-2 on the appointment of the next election of the Grand Insular Rural Head. [[Manevicke District of Volin]] Vote. [[12:55:13]] For 236 Copy that. Bill number 3562-2 on the appointment of the successive elections of the head of Ivanov. [[Ochakov region of Mikolaiiv region]] Please vote. [[12:55:40]] For 237 Copy that. Bill number 3562-4 on the appointment of steppe's head in consecutive elections. [[The Divisional Region of Odessa]] Vote. [[12:56:05]] For 242 Copy that. And bill number 3562-5 on the appointment of the consecutive election of the Chapaev village head. [[Kotovo District of Odessa]] Chapayev and Kotovsky met well. Please vote. [[12:56:34]] For 243 Copy that. A draft Order on the Change of the Borders of the City of Ladizín and the Tulchin region of the Winnitsk Region is under consideration. Registration number 2781 will be reported by Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich. Please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u101	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The Winnitsk district council violated the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s concerns about the change in the boundaries of the city of Ladzhín and the Tulchin region of the Winnitsk region. According to land cadastre data within the city of Ladzhín, the total area of 1,022 hectares is located. This area was established in 1977 and was approved by the decision of the Winnick district council of the National Deputies, 30 years later. A project to change the boundaries of the city of Ladzhín is designed taking into account the actual status of land use and the master plan for the construction of the city. Within the city of Ladjijin, there are 601.7 hectares of land that are in the knowledge of the Ladjijin City Council and 79-85 hectares of land that are in the knowledge of the Zazernian Rural Council of the Tulchin Region. They're mostly built-in plots. Thus, the territory of Ladyzhin will be 1,703 acres [1,703 ha] and 71 hectares after the changes have been made. The territory of the Tulchin region is 112 thousand 301 acres [112,000 ha] and 15 acres [15 ha]. The question of the change in the boundaries of the city of Ladizín and the Tulchin region has been considered and approved by the Zazernian Rural Council of the Tulchin region, the Ladzian City, the Tulčin District District, the Viennese District Council and the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on agrarian politics and land relations. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government supports the concerns of the Winnitsk District Council regarding changes in the boundaries of the city of Ladzhin and the Tulchin region of the Winnitsk region. I ask the deputies to support this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u102	Thank you. Will there be questions? You don't? Well, what we're going to support, although the question is not easy, because some people add and others take away, but the committee says it's settled. Then let's support it. I am voting on the Order to Change the Borders of the City of Ladizín and the Tulchin region of the Winnitsk Region. Registration number 2781. Please vote. [[12:59:46]] For 242 It's been decided. Thank you. Let Ladizine expand. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 2253, National MP Feldman refuses to report. Therefore, from the committee, a member of the Committee on Legislative Security, the legal protection activities of Malinovska Oleksy Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u103	Dear colleagues! Bill No. 2253, proposed by the National MP Feldman, proposed to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, supplement to the Criminal Enforcement Code of Ukraine and the Ukrainian Act on the National Criminal Enforcement Service of Ukraine. A new form of punishment has been introduced as an excuse that does not involve a person’s denial or restriction of his will. The Legislative Security Committee, law enforcement, notes that the idea of establishing a Probation Institute is a valid institution for Ukraine and, under certain circumstances, deserves support. At the same time, the proposed project needs considerable work. In Ukraine, there is an institution that is freeing itself from punishment with a trial, which is like a trial. The measure is applied in cases where the court finds that the sentence can be corrected without real punishment. In doing so, the court determines the period of examination, relies on the convicted person for certain duties, and on the relevant State authorities for the control and conduct of the person. That is, the current criminal legislation of Ukraine, articles 75, 78 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, already provides for a trial under a different name, and therefore the creation of another institution of probation is a question of debate. The development of legislation in this direction should take place by improving existing criminal and enforcement codes in Ukraine. Since the existing system of criminal inspections of the Ukrainian Department of State for the execution of sentences proposed for the functions of probation centres does not have the necessary expertise, the appropriate material and technical security, and so on, the adoption of the proposed changes to the proposed legislative acts without further processing will entail additional costs from the State budget of Ukraine, at which no calculation has been made. In view of this, the author's contention in the explanatory note that the additional costs of performing the functions of the centres of probation by criminal investigation will be offset by a substantial reduction in the cost of maintaining the institutions of execution. After all, the institutions themselves are financed by nearly 53 percent of the need. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after drafting the draft bill, proposes to reject it. Taking into account what has been said, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that, as a result of the first reading, the draft Law amending some of the Ukrainian legislation on the introduction into probation should be returned to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexi Petrovich. Yes, Bogchuku has not been able to ask you a question, although he is sitting next to you. And who else wants it? Bogchuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u105	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I don't really have a question. I'd rather have an offer. I think that all changes, additions, new texts, should be in line with the principles of the rule of law. All these changes proposed are not always in line with this principle of the rule of law. What's more, they're putting extra pressure on the state budget. And thirdly, the authors don't come to the hall to defend their bill. I think that those bills that make national MPs who don't attend sessional sessions leave things unsettled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u106	Thank you. So I'm going to answer you in this way that in principle, the committee has taken into account the unaccounted for budget, cost, so it's essentially rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u107	Well, me, that's more of a reference to the leadership of the Supreme Council, I have to say that I definitely don't support your idea and your proposal. Because you're offering us, to those who work, most of the Supreme Council to join the sabotagers. That's not what we're gonna do. There's the right of legislative initiative, it's going through the procedure, we're looking at what you see, part of their initiatives we even support. Let us not resort to methods that will not make us public - minded. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion? You don't? We can vote. There is a proposal to submit Bill No. 2253, a draft Act amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the introduction of probation, I don't know, it's probably not the Ukrainian word -- probation, for the author's work, please support. [[13:05:11]] For 221 Who's in charge of voting? Don't relax, dinner's up, I get it, but a little bit more. [[13:05:33]] For 234 We're back. I would like to vote on the bill No. 2253 amending some of the Ukrainian laws on the introduction of probation for the author's work. Please vote. [[13:06:03]] For 236 A decision has been made. Let us move on to the last chapter of today’s agenda on inclusion in the agenda and decision - making. Please include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments, provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act on Educational, Scientific and Pedagogical and other categories of teaching staff. Author Suhiy, registration number 3219. Please vote. Integrating into the agenda. [[13:06:56]] For 231 It's on. Please, Michaela Ilchi will report to Sadowa. Prepare Tuck Volodymyr from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u108	Dear colleagues, before consideration is proposed a bill, registered number 3219 of February 21, 2007 introduced by the People's Deputies Lichuk and Sadov on the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Education Act "On Education" to educational, scientific and pedagogical and other categories of teaching staff". The bill has been drafted with the aim of finally resolving the problem of calculating the payments provided for in article 57 of the Ukrainian Act on Education of Insurance Contributions to the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund for Temporary Occupational Loss, the Ukrainian National Social Insurance Fund for Unemployment and the Social Insurance Fund for Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases of Ukraine. That's right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u109	Mikola Illich! Mikola Illich! Dear colleagues, if I guess so, you were surprised by the President's orders. I urge you to stop wondering. There's nothing strange about them anymore. Come on, let the Supreme Council work. Please, Mikola Illich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u110	Yeah, don't let them get in the way of work, really. According to current legislation, the payment of insurance contributions to these funds is made at the same time as the cost of work. The bill is proposed to credit the government’s debt to pay benefits for years and to assist in the granting of annual leave. Only insurance contributions to a general government pension insurance, that is, to account for only the U.S. Pension Fund. According to the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the introduction of the proposed standards would disrupt the overall system for the collection of contributions to the general government social insurance funds. They refer to all laws other than one law on the restructuring of the debt of payments provided for in the 57th article. Too bad. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Payments Debt, article 57 of the Ukrainian Education Act, creditors' debt has been repaid since 2005, in the form of individual targeted subsidies from the Ukrainian state budget, together with the payment of current wages. However, insurance contributions from the subsidy are included in all the general government social insurance funds. Because the total in this case does not change the payment system. There was no such bill. If the tax administrations, because of the absence of the proposed, proposed norm in this bill, already determine penalties. In the Dnipropetrov region, these sanctions are already in effect. Teachers, teachers, and other secondary schools suffer financially. In addition, the adoption of the bill will lead to the economy of the state budget of Ukraine and will allow partial compensation for the loss of teaching, science and teaching and other categories of teaching staff associated with the timely payment of seniority allowances and the provision of arms on annual leave. In view of this proposal, respected colleagues, support this bill and accept it as a whole. This will protect our pedagogical workers and help eliminate double insurance contributions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u111	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich, from the Committee on Science and Education. Although more committees may be involved.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u112	Dear colleagues. The bill No. 3219 of 21.02.2007, introduced by the people's deputies Sadov and Lichuk on amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Education Act, is proposed. The bill is designed for the final settlement of the problem of payment accounting under article 57 of the Ukrainian Law on Education of Insurance Contributions to the Pension Fund, the Social Insurance Fund for Temporary Occupational Loss, the Ukrainian National Social Insurance Fund for Unemployment and the Social Insurance Fund for Accidents in Production and Occupational Diseases of Ukraine. According to current legislation, the payment of insurance contributions to these funds is made at the same time as the cost of work. The bill proposes that the balance sheet of the balance sheet be credited to the State budget for the benefit of the years and for the relief of the annual leave only to compulsory government pension insurance. I mean, we're only counting to the U.K. Pension Fund. In the opinion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate, the introduction of the proposed standards would disrupt the overall system of contributions to the public compulsory social insurance funds. However, under the Ukrainian Act on the Restructuring of Payments Debt, article 57 of the Education Act, the creditors' debt has been repaid, starting in 2005, in the form of individual targeted subsidies from the State Budget of Ukraine, monthly with the payment of the current salary, the insurance premiums of which are included in all the general government social insurance funds. So the overall system of deductions is not going to change. The adoption of this bill will lead to the economy of the state budget of Ukraine, as the honourable reporter has already said, and will allow partial compensation for the loss of teaching, science and teaching and other categories of teaching staff associated with the late payment of seniority allowances and assistance in the granting of annual leave. In view of the above, I ask you to support Bill 3219 and accept it as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u113	Thank you. Is there a question of respectable colleagues? None. I have a question, well, I should have asked the author, but he would have noticed the committee. When does this law come into force?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u114	This law is in effect. Yeah, it doesn't say when it comes in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u115	If not said, it must be put into effect from the time of publication. And the moment of publication is a violation of the Ukrainian Budget Code. Because it can be introduced because it affects the interests of the state budget, not before 1 January 2008. I'm just paying attention not only to the fact that there's no one else here, but I'm paying attention to the fact that when bills have a bearing on government budgets, incomes, or expenses, it's important to take into account that there's definitely a rule to be written when this law goes into effect, and that's how it's going to be for the new financial year. Okay. Have a seat, please. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Are they willing to speak? No, it's not. Then I put to the vote the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Restructuring of Payments Debt, provided for in article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Science and Education and other categories of teaching staff. Registration number 3219. Please vote. [[13:16:25]] For 211 Who's in charge of voting? [[13:16:47]] For 221 The factions, please. Have you seen it? Who's in charge of voting? [[13:17:35]] For 233 I would like to vote on the adoption in the first reading of the Act amending the Law on the Restructuring of Debt from Payments under Article 57 of the Law on Education of Ukraine for Teachers, Scientific Teachers and Other Categories of Teachers, Registration No. 3219. Please vote. [[13:18:14]] For 240 Copy that. It is necessary to include and take a decision on the bill number 3273, namely, the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on clarifying positions and eliminating contradictions]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[13:18:51]] For 236 Included in the agenda. I invite my colleague Zubko Yuri Grigorovitch to the rostrum. Please. Prepare for Europe’s day, including Yuri, Uriah’s day.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Yuri Zubko, Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan, Socialist faction. Ukraine's draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on clarifying regulations and eliminating conflicts is aimed at sorting out economic legislation, improving its effectiveness, ensuring the convenience of using the legislative array, and eliminating inconsistencies in Ukraine's legislative acts. Ukraine’s legislative base is constantly improving. From the very beginning of the work of the Fifth Council of the Supreme Council, the new laws in force were 125 bills, most of which were regulated by economic relations. This bill aims at deepening the process of orderling, improving its effectiveness, making it convenient to use the legislative array and legal standards that are subject to application or implementation. The bill provides for amendments to a number of legislative acts in Ukraine, such as the Ukrainian Code of the Master, the Act on Concessions, the holding company in Ukraine, the legal regime of the National Academy of Sciences, the branch Academy of Sciences and the status of their property complex, the Law on Seizures, securities and the Funding Market, the National Depository System and the characteristics of the electronic circulation of securities in Ukraine, the Act on Economic Associations, the Law on State and Communion Rentals, the restoration of the debtor's ability to pay or recognition by bankruptcy, the administration of public property objects. The implementation of the draft law does not require additional material and financial expenditure from the State budget. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports this bill. The Cabinet of Ministers also supports the bill. A committee of professionals offered to adopt the bill as a basis. Please support the adoption of this bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u117	Thank you. Will there be questions? None. Have a seat, please. From the Yuri Voropeyev Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u118	Dear colleagues, the bill has been considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Economic Policy. It was decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it be adopted on first reading as a basis. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the words of the previous drafter of the bill were not quite correct. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine wrote a lot of comments to the bill and agreed to support it on first reading, provided that it was further elaborated. Similarly, a mass of comments was written by the Chief Expert Office for the bill. They didn't just support it, they wrote a lot of notes. For example, the bill narrows down the powers of the monitoring boards of companies, narrows the powers of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, and the bill increases the powers of the Ukrainian State State Treasury Fund to manage enterprises, where there is a share of the State, to the detriment of the powers of the ministries of Kabmin. In addition, the bill dramatically expands the powers of the Ukrainian State Solidarity Fund in bankruptcy cases where there is a State share of more than 25 per cent. In fact, the Housing Fund, instead of the court, will decide how it will or will not turn around, if there is only 25 per cent. That is, if these comments are removed until second reading, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Chief Expert Office, and our committee, inter alia, agree to adopt them on second reading. At this stage, we recommend that it be accepted on first reading and that it be further developed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u119	Yes, thank you. No questions? Have a seat. Shall we vote? I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of Bill No. 3273 on amending some of the Ukrainian legislative acts on clarifying and eliminating contradictions. Please vote. [[13:24:25]] For 235 Copy that. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda and adopt the Supreme Council's Order on Appeal to the High Council of Justice. Registration number 3565, the drafters were Sokil and Ilyashov. Please enter into the agenda. [[13:25:00]] For 234 It's on. Please, Sokol, briefly inform us of the content of the Order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, me and the national deputy Ilashish prepared a draft of the Supreme Council's decree to refer to the Supreme Council of Justice. The essence of this ruling: On 23 May of this year, the judge of the Chewchenkov District Court of Kiev Kuhaleshvili was ordered to provide for a lawsuit against the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and other officials of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to be prohibited from participating in plenary sessions, the sessions of the Constitutional Court of the Ukraine of the Judges of Pschenické, Stanik, Yvashchenka and to exercise any authority of the judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The resolution was passed in violation of the current legislation of Ukraine. Judge Kuchaleshvili’s actions testify to a violation of the judge’s oath. In view of the content of the adoption of the Shevchenkov District Court of Kiev on May 23, this year, Onischuk appears to have applied to the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. However, at the time of the application, the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Ivan Dombrowski, applied for discharge from the post of head of court, and his statement was satisfied with the results of the vote of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in the order provided for in the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. In the present case, articles 9, 17 of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine on the competence of administrative courts in administrative matters have been violated since, according to part two of the fourth article of the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, the jurisdiction of administrative courts extends to all public-law disputes other than disputes for which the law establishes another order, a judicial decision. The issue of the actions of the head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine during the hearing of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is governed by the Ukrainian Act on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, and the order of their implementation cannot be assessed and the cases brought before the local court. Such questions fall exclusively within the competence of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. By the approval of the Shevchenkow District Court of Kiev, on June 23, the court of Kiev adopted a lawsuit for the failure of judges of the Constitutional Court of Pšenice, Stanik, Yvashchenka, to participate in the plenary sessions of the Constitutional Court, was placed on the Office of State Protection. According to part five of article 118 of the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Justice, the enforcement of the administrative order is immediately carried out in accordance with the order established by law for the enforcement of judicial decisions. According to article one of the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement, the enforcement of decisions in Ukraine has been placed on the State Executive Service, which is part of the system of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The State Security Service cannot perform the functions that the law places on another special state body, which contains special units for the enforcement of decisions by judges. According to part two of article 10 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges, the judge solemnly swears to honorably and conscientiously perform the duties of the judge, to exercise justice, to obey only the law, to be objective and just. In accordance with Article 6 of the Law on the Status of Judges, in the exercise of justice, a judge is obliged to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to ensure a comprehensive and objective examination of judicial cases and to prevent acts and actions that distort the rank of judge and may raise doubts about its objectivity, impartiality and independence. Moreover, by taking an oath, the judge solemnly swears that he will faithfully and conscientiously perform the duties of a judge, exercise justice, subjecting himself to the law alone, be objective and just. Therefore, the Supreme Council, according to the draft of this ruling, asks the High Council of Justice to consider without delay the violation by Judge Shevchenkov of the District Court of Kiev Kuhaleshvili of the oaths of the judge in the administrative case No.2A-867\07 on the appeal of Onichuk to the Head of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-24-m0.u121	Thank you. Dear colleagues. Do you understand the meaning? No questions? I'm betting on the vote of Supreme Council Order 3565 on the appeal to the High Council of Justice. Please vote. [[13:30:31]] For 246 It's been decided. Dear colleagues, be careful. We're about to conclude this session with you. But you have a meeting. But I must seriously tell the citizens of our country, especially the citizens of our country, that a powerful option of taking power has begun to take place. A real anticonstitutional, anti-State coup began to take place. There is now a strong discharge from the Attorney General's office under the mark that he is congruent with the MP's powers. I'm officially stating that our colleague, Piscoon, filed an application on 14 May this year, registered at the Supreme Council Secretariat to have the Supreme Council decide to deprive him. on the timely cessation of parliamentary powers in connection with the performance of the Attorney General’s duties. And it is no longer the Attorney General’s fault that the Supreme Council has failed to consider the application to date. That's one piece of information. The other one. I remind very much those who care about the implementation of the Constitution at the President's Secretariat, the clergy of it, to see what makes Mr. Immortal's Deputy Head of the President's Secretariat, who for a month two or three has already been the deputy head of the Secretariat and is also considered a national deputy of Ukraine. I'd like to see the President's decree today to release the Immortal from office. And I'd also like to see another order. I think that we will do the right thing if we think that the Attorney-General is the Attorney-General who is that the President has no right to violate the Constitution, and we talked about this today when we considered one of his vetoes, which is clearly stated in the Constitution, who and how he appoints and releases the Attorney-General. It's time to put an end to this. So I would like to ask the people's deputies right now to help the Attorney-General figure out the situation on this issue and let's all stand up for the constitutional system. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10 o'clock.
