ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:03:53]] A total of 261 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. 262. 262. Please, calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, this is Professional Journalist Day. Let us greet them with this day, wish them success, creativity, objectivity, and all that society expects of them and what they are capable of. Let's welcome them. [[Applause]] Today is the birthday of Peter Pisarczuk, a national deputy. Oh, no? Oh, that was a mistake. An error was made consciously. A conscious error has been made, yes. So, on July 6th, let's wait, say hello when it's birthday. We have time for applications, announcements, messages. Please sign in. Please, in an individual order. Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u2	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! On the eve of the great celebration of the Trinity, three heads of state: Head of the Supreme Council, Prime Minister, President, reached consensus, agreed to end the opposition, lift the illegal, unlawful decrees of the head of state, end the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, continue the legislative process. Some compared this to the solution to the Caribbean crisis in a miniature from which there was one step toward a solution to the war. The question is, who in this Ukrainian situation was Mikita Khrushchev and who was John Kennedy? The answer is found in the following pages. The President's supporters are already in direct violation of the May 27 agreements reached with Alexander Moroz and Viktor Yanukovic, on non-interference with the law enforcement and judicial authorities. The State Security Department, led by a well-known new chief, is blocking the work of the Constitutional Court. During the hearing of the Kyiv Court of Appeal, a number of Ukrainian security officers were present for the renewal of the Attorney General’s office. The President’s secretariat, through the court, is promoting the decision to subdue internal forces directly to the President. And all of this is done in the context of the group's appointments to the heads of the district courts, only to their own people, which is a gross violation by the head of state, the decision of the Constitutional Court on this issue. And it is clear to the schoolgirl that there is a pervasive, insolent and seductive usurpation of power on the part of the President's Secretariat. And let's look at something on the other side. The National Security and Defence Council is transforming itself into the President’s hit - and - run mobile fist, which now includes all the heads of the district government. What's that? Total mobilization under Yushchenko's standards of all his loyal people in Ukraine? But for what purpose? Perhaps for the purpose of harvesting a future crop of cornflakes or mushrooms? Or do you want to go out with herdsmen for rich jellyfish? No, it's not. The RNB is transformed into a kind of military mobile government of the President, where the heads of state unrepentantly obey his orders, move troops, and await new instructions. All of this indicates that with one hand I sign or agreement of three May 27, the President actively militates power under himself, creating all the conditions for a Ukrainian-style crisis not to localize me, but to extend significantly, to take revenge before the ruling coalition for its disgraceful spring rains. It seems that there will be no peace under our olives if the President of Ukraine does not want peace, but goes to war. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u3	Baranovsky. Boyko gives him time, he'll try to get in in in four or five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u4	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Honorable National Deputies, Your Honors! At the beginning of my talk, I would like to welcome the representatives of the press present in this room today, who are not in this room today to wish them creative strength and, as Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich has said today, that your information will always be objective. Good for You and Health! [[Applause]] Dear comrades! Two years have passed since the Act on the Protection of the Children of War was enacted. For two years there is a struggle for the very disadvantaged people in our country. These are people who did not have their own childhood, who did not have a happy youth, on the shoulders of the reconstruction of our nation, and unfortunately today have years of reconstruction or independence of Ukraine on their shoulders, and who are not the best in their lives because of their material security. All these years, the last two, with the "Protection of the Children of War" Act of the Block of Booth and "Our Ukraine" have blocked the entry into force of this law, doing everything to ensure that its funding is not allocated. It was only this year that Ukraine’s first budget for 2008 allocated funds to partially finance the population category. I mean, it's only 20 percent of what you're planning to do, but it's already a start. Despite this process being blocked by the factions of BUT and Our Ukraine this year, socialists are demanding the government to anticipate funding for the law on children of war in full terms for 2008. We often hear from the BUT faction and the “Our Ukraine” that the law on children of war spoke imperfect. But what I want to say is, as the author of this law, that he has not yet entered into his work and given him an assessment of how perfect or not perfect he is, there is simply no possibility. So it would be very true at the outset if this law had been implemented and then conducted with appropriate analysis, it could be improved accordingly. The question of the third decree is not to be overlooked, but rather, of the sixth Presidential decree concerning parliamentary elections for the term. Again, as the previous one says in Odessa, "you'll all laugh very much," and again, it's illegal. It was announced not two months before the elections, as the Constitution requires, but in four. There is no argument from the President on the grounds that there are 151 votes of deputies who have made their terms of reference. There are no statements of this kind today, both in Parliament and in the Central Election Commission. Therefore, it is impossible to rely on someone’s responsibilities. Honourable deputies from the BUT faction and our Ukraine, I would like to draw your attention to the “sliding road” that you have been driven into. Note, Mr. Winsky, who is today the right hand of Julius Volodymyrny Timoshenko in the BUT faction, did not write a statement of credentials as a national deputy. He asks why he didn't write? I'd say he understands, I'm pretty sure he understands what he's doing, he's got a good group of paid lawyers who give him pretty good advice. Because he knows that if he writes a statement, he will be satisfied and he will lose his office. There, he understands well that by throwing everyone under the tank, he understands well that it is a road to nowhere. And that's why those who come on the list, after those who will be removed by the Central Election Commission from the National Deputies, they will fill in the ranks of Parliament and Parliament will function. Unfortunately, Mr. Winsky will remain in Parliament. Dear national MPs, to my profound conviction, after the President's sixth presidential decree on the early elections that took place yesterday, there is even a need for the coalition to gather and consult together. So I'm talking to you from a faction of socialists, let's hold coalition meetings, give a proper assessment of the President's sixth decree, make a certain one. In some ways, how we're going to work further, what's going to be our strategy and tactics in this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u5	Thank you. Selchenko's passing it on to Boko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! When on June 2nd, after the meeting of Yushchenka with the deputy factions "Our Ukraine" and BUT called one of the meeting participants and asked, "What did I do to harass the President at the April 2 consultations that he, even two months later, mentioned me in a bad word?" I said, but probably what I said before in Albania, that even in this forgotten God and people of the country, people are building a state, the President, the Parliament and the government are working together, and the country is changing in front of the eyes. And we've only got a conversation on Banks about not such a Supreme Council, not such MPs, not such a government, not a constitution. And, in general, he gave the true words of a wise village uncle: “As long as our President is in charge in this world.” The President is busy with what the opposition is, and this is nonsense for any state. After reading the moralist and immoral performance by Yushchenka on the Internet and in the sales "Village News" that now serves the oligarchs who have made a bet on Jude Lucenka, I have convinced ourselves that our President is ahead of us to dance, destroy state institutions and have the decency to rejoice like a young child. What a wise president would speak of the great pleasure of destroying Parliament and would still appreciate it as a uniquely crafted matter that costs many moral values. Catch ambiguity, what is it, and what is it worth? Do not pay attention to stylistic awkwardness; they are used to the ever - tangled verbal structures of Yashchenka; do not pay attention, even to the fact that a person who is not too strong in morals is divulging moral values. Look at these calves, give me the joy of destroying the Supreme Council. [[Well, that's how he thinks it worked.]] Then there was the same joy that the Constitutional Court, by the way, was able to bring to justice the judgment of which Yushchenko vowed to submit to all Europe. Note the very specific understanding that the President of Ukrainian patriotism, political stability, political betrayal. He's measuring everything by his own standards, but he won't admit that the centre of political corruption and not just the political one is in his presidential palace. And the September 2005 scandal showed this with all the obvious. And unless it is normal that the elimination of parliamentaryism through the “distortion” of MPs, the head of state calls the will, saying, treason should not be. Yes, it shouldn't be, but the biggest is right in the midst of his associates and what he now calls betrayal. I still have three minutes of Sadov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u7	Gardener, please give him his words. Your time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u8	And what he calls betrayal. The factions. Shut up, yeah? Why, then, should the entire country pay for the political poverty and shortsightedness of Yashchenko and Timoshenko? In fact, it is a demonstration of the faction itself in front of the factions, who are known for their service to the Bushmism, who were the founders of political corruption. In front of whom did the president “break up the pearl”? Well, to appreciate what happened as a genius, unless a person is blinded by his own mythical messionism, and it's not up to us politicians to draw conclusions. And, of course, you don't have to, as some people have suggested, that psychiatrists should. No, it's not. Political psychologists have to work here to explain how the common pathological self - centering of one person becomes a state disaster and how it is embedded in public politics, capable of deforming everything, both in man and in the matter. This has been the case in history, and it is from such deformities that dangerous regimes have been born for mankind. One more question. Yushchenko, like his political father Kuchma, once again leads the money for the fish, eliminating parliamentary immunity. There are no words; it must be ended in the sense of criminal responsibility. Political integrity is in all parliaments of the world. But as a real coward, Yushchenko doesn't want to talk about removing the intactness of himself as President, which is how relevant today for stability in the state. How to record the inviolability, of all of them, of the President, of the judges and deputies. What to fear, Victor Andryovich, no one will make an innocent sinner of you. In fact, Yushchenka’s presentation from June 2nd gives a devastating impression, no productive idea. It is driven away by indifference to people’s lives, and the country is burned by drought, the economy facing a severe test in connection with it. New challenges are being raised by energy, new problems facing Ukraine are being raised by the location of AO in neighbouring countries, and our President is “squeezing water in step” about elections, reading morals, enjoying the ruins of government institutions. It's not good enough. And who do you expect the good from? From the one who once shouted about removing business from power, and now surrounded himself with the most isolated figures from this business and once again runs a whole battalion of oligarchs and oligarchs. Is it possible to expect the good of a person who swore in the elections, such as not to let Odessa’s driveway be privatized, but is now ready to present himself to his people? Yashchenka's morale from June 2nd is that there is no need for morality. It can be discussed beautifully, but in the very fact that the country is destroyed, it cannot be. It's an anthem of ruins, a hymn of chastity. Under the appearance of anaphemy, betrayal is a mere apology of betrayal. As Lena Kostenko said, Neocinism is coming, I don't exist in it. He warmed up this neocinism, warmed up his father, Hermit. Such a destructive neocynic, he will infiltrate the history of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u10	Amen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u11	Head, please. He gives him his words quickly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u12	Dear Mr. Head! Dear fellow MPs! A few words about the legal “blamelessness ” of the third masterpiece of Yushchenk. First. The order is issued for the implementation of the points of the joint statement. I found one formula in the Constitution to do what the President ordered, to implement the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine exclusively, not to execute private agreements. I said from this rostrum that they might mean private arrangements. Alexander Aleksandrovich, and I am addressing Prime Minister Janukovic of Ukraine, your subsequent arrangements may end with four decrees, where reference will be made only to your agreement, where there will be no mention of the Constitution or the laws. It's extremely dangerous. The other one. The decree refers to the decision of the Constitutional Court since 2002. I wrote the application to the Constitutional Court. It relates to events in the Ukrainian House in January 2002, and I asked the court to explain what a session is, what a session is, what a council is, how a college body works, and so on. That's why I understand very well that we have received a response from the referee, Vladimir Chapoval, former President of the Constitutional Court. In fact, it is in this decision that the Supreme Council is empowered to adopt laws and implement other constitutionally defined powers under the conditions of its plenary meetings at the time of the vote that at least the number of deputies required under the Constitution to make the relevant decision, and we need all 150 in order to establish the Temporary Special Commission to approve the Crimea Constitution, 225 in order to adopt the ordinary law. These are the words from this decision. She's entitled to the amount that she can make decisions about. Third. The president says that something happened somewhere in clubs, palaces of culture, or restaurants, where gatherings took place, which is the result of violations by the Supreme Council. Please tell me where the Constitution defines the President's right to determine whether the Supreme Council is full or incomplete? None. Who should determine whether they are authorized or not? Nobody! Because it was the Constitutional Court in this decision, which was written by Vladimir Chapoval, that determined that if, and then there was a mixed system, 226 were in major districts and 225, and 225 were in proportion. There was a new system. In fact, in order to make it impossible for the judicial authorities to be destructive, the court warned against creating a situation of artificial inadequacy. So the court wrote that, in the event of a reduction for any reason, for whatever reason, I would make Parliament less than 300, other MPs have the right to take an oath. Should the work of the Supreme Council be stopped? But who should stop her? Of course, we must wait to make a proper oath to the other elected deputies. So the court said that those on the proportional list, that's their right to make an oath. And it is our duty to ensure their right. So when it comes to closed lists that are closed?Oh, my God! They were, no, no, closed, they were officially printed in official publications: “The Voice of Ukraine”, “Governmental courier”. They're open to anyone who wants to read them. And those candidates to the MPs who went through the gouting of elections, because elections are the will of the people, and they didn't vote in 120, not in 90, not in 20. They voted for all 450. They have a different legal quality, they're a reserve fund. And they have to come here and make an oath. Next. When the President says, taking into account, in the second part of the decree, the inability to restore two thirds of the constitutional composition. How so?Oh, my God! Unable to recover. Who said it was impossible to restore it when the court said it was necessary for other candidates registered with the CTC not to take an oath? And in the end, third. Is the President referring to the only article in the Constitution? That's six?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u13	Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u14	The only article is the eighty-first. But in this one, the eighty-first, and it says, in the last part of it, it's said that in the case of a deputy out of the faction of his mandate, they stop in time on the basis of the law. There is no law. So what? Can't we take today's Supreme Council decision on how to make an oath to those candidates of the national MPs who have been registered by the CTC and for whom the people have already voted in the elections to make this oath? Is this not a question of the internal work of Parliament? Is this not a matter of regulation or a separate order in these circumstances? So anyway, the Supreme Council's ruling will have a normative force, unlike this decree, which refers to a common agreement. So in this situation, I consider it necessary to make such a decision as soon as possible. And any candidate on the BUT list like you, as it were, will be reinstated from the Constitutional Court's decision, it turns out that there can be no renewal, they're a reserve fund, they can't be updated. Any candidate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u15	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u16	I don't know what they've done, whether the candidates for the “refoulement” of the U.N.A. have the right to be tried on the basis of this decision of the Constitutional Court, they can restore their right to be national deputies by taking an oath in accordance with the legal procedure we have established. And I can help them make this application, plus you need to immediately submit a new concern or constitutional application to the Constitutional Court regarding this third masterpiece, so that there is no more fourth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u17	Thank you. Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u18	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. We are once accustomed to the Supreme Council acting within the limits of the law. The President, the Cabinet of Ministers, the entire society must live by law. And some of our opposition colleagues, who keep talking about gang power, get used to living by gang rules and living by gang jargon. We hear “basar” from them all the time, from them we hear “in terms, in absolute terms”. And somehow they decided the President's decree could also be issued “individually”. So the decree that says it's made on the basis of agreements is already, between us, there's a complete absurdity of legal rules. But that's what Sergey the Headate just said. In order to understand what the deal was and what the President was going to issue on the basis of it, I briefly explain the essence of these agreements by the three Heads of State. It was going to be the next one. You want elections, Mr. President, you can't live without them, it's so intense, you want the blood ready in the country to spill for them. Okay. We'll go for it. Although we have expressed our views on these choices. And to those people who push Ukraine before these elections. That they are acting like Ukrainian proverbs is “the boasting mare who beat the wagon.” Less than that, but according to the deal. First. The coalition was to ensure the adoption of laws according to which these elections could, in principle, be conducted. The other one. Ensure financing of these elections through the amendment to the State Budget Act and the formation of a new composition of the CLTC. We have fulfilled our obligations. Opposition on. forces Volodymyr Timoshenko to take a very strange approach on the basis of 82 articles of the Constitution, which creates a dangerous precedent to create conditions for the Supreme Council to cease to be a full constitutional body. I mean, make sure there are fewer than 300 deputies in the Supreme Council, so there's no way to reinstate them. They didn't do it. Their lists have not been annulled and, according to all, are unlikely to be annulled. And the President made a clear commitment strictly in accordance with the Constitution to the law, to the right not to accuse anyone long ago after that the results of the successive elections would have to issue an appropriate decree then that the new elections would take place and that the date of the new elections would be given, since he himself well understands that his previous two decrees are not only illegal, not only logical, but also criminal. What did he publish? He issued a decree based on no right, not on the Constitution, not on the fact that there are no 300 votes in the Supreme Council, but on the report of Julius Volodymyrna Timoshenko and her boy on the run of Kirilenko, who did something at their assemblies. Excuse me, and if I send a telegram to the President saying that Ukraine is not Ukraine, but there are Martians in Ukraine, then he's going to issue a decree saying that he will recognize all Martians and pack suitcases and go to Mars on foot. So I'm addressing everyone and the President first of all: let's live, Victor Andryovich, not understanding, but by law. We have made commitments, we will carry them out, but you too, issue decrees according to the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u19	The bubba conveys Matthew’s word. Matthew. Yeah, yeah, Bulba's giving his word there, too, right by the book.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u20	Six minutes. Thank you. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. Yesterday, the President of Ukraine actually completed the meetings of his anticonstitutional acts by issuing the sixth decree, one which. As worthless as his previous election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And again, judging from the information material, he's just putting himself in the same position as an act and a mockery not only of his own people, but of a civilized Europe, of our neighbors who don't care about everything that's going on in Ukraine. They laugh and mock, and our honest people get bitter and hurt because their country is so inconsistent and weak, because a strong politician is known never to resort to crude force, to dictatorial methods. Today, Yushchenko tries to dictate his will to not only the highest legislative body but also to the entire society. And most of all, the most disgraceful thing for him himself is trying to convince everyone that his decisions, i.e. wrong decrees, are entirely based on the norms and positions of the Constitution, even though it is the other way around. As I said before, last night's presidential decree was the next piece of legal edict. For his publication, Yushchenko considers what our colleagues have already said, the decisions of the BUT and Our Ukraine bloc assemblies on the permanent suspension of the powers of the deputies of these factions, without even awaiting consideration by the Supreme Council of National Deputies on the withdrawal from the factions mentioned. The president, on the other hand, took the lead among groups of ambitious and adventurous politicians, trampled on the Constitution, including its 77th article on the holding of elections 60 days after the end of the Supreme Council’s mandate. Nor can we agree with the effective part of the decree, which has already been discussed, by reference to the Constitutional Court’s decision of October 17, 2002. Because it is about empowering the Supreme Council to elect two-thirds of the constitutional composition of the Parliament, and this does not mean at all that the exit of the deputies can stop the authorization of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Today, even yesterday’s staunch adepts of the orange coup are sincerely outraged by the brutal efforts of the so - called opposition minority to impose their will on most deputies and the cynical use of the President in this matter to destabilize and destroy the country. Timishchenka, Kirylenka, and Yushchenko themselves do not want to realize that such a delicate and difficult matter as voluntary and permanent cessation of parliamentary powers should be carried out in strict compliance with the Constitution and the Supreme Council’s Rules. Any violence and psychological pressure is not acceptable here, and such unique facts in the state of the opposition, as we can see, have room. Much has already been said in this room that, despite all efforts by destructive forces to torpedo the Supreme Council, it must continue to work in the interests of the country and the people, ensure continuity of leadership by the State, and any attempt to consider the Supreme Council illegal, merciful permission of Yuschenk to extend its function from one to three days should be considered unconstitutional and anti-legal. The Supreme Council, all branches of power must await the verdict of the Constitutional Court, and this decree of the President, regardless of which verdict. In this high court, they await their assessments and other anticonstitutional works of the President. This is indeed necessary in the name of the future. Ukraine finally has to build its life, determine its destiny on the basis of the Constitution and the laws, not with the help of the President's stated injustices and criminal concepts of its orange environment. The Communist faction will continue to do everything possible against the usurpation of power, the confirmation of tyranny in Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u21	We have completed the time spent on announcements, messages, proposals by the national MPs. I'm going to go to legal aid on the President's decrees, and I'm basically going to be guided here by the laws and the Constitution, not by comments, not by emotions. I'd like to pay attention to these details. By his decrees, the President suspended the mandate of the Supreme Council of the Fifth Council on two occasions, without any basis. It's a violation of the Constitution, which he finally admitted to himself. But it's obviously not a good grade. He has declared the work of Parliament illegal since the issuance of his decrees: from the second of April, in fact, to the present moment, the Supreme Council is considered to be illegal until the issuance of an electoral decree, for he had previously repealed all previous decrees. This is all a violation of part four of article five of the Constitution of Ukraine, because no one can usurp power — as it was written in the Constitution. Obviously, this is what made the President artificially stop the operation of Decree 355, in order for the Supreme Council to adopt a series of laws that are necessary for the organization, including the early elections. By Decree 496 he recognized that all previous decrees had become invalid. And this, among other things, results in the fact that the authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation is not suspended for a period of time. Even the questionable decrees, and the legal relations regarding the process of successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, appointed by the President of Ukraine first on May 27th, then on June 24th, should be suspended. Decree 497 refers exclusively to the appointment of early elections on September 30. And it contains organizational tasks that the President has given to the Central Election Commission and the Cabinet of Ministers. Sergey Hlavati has already said that this decree is issued on the basis of political arrangements, not the Constitution or the laws of Ukraine. And I want to say that the political arrangements were that the President would issue an Order based on the Constitution of Ukraine. I would like to emphasize that this was the situation in which the arrangements were made. And only under the conditions mentioned above is this decree mandatory for implementation in Ukraine. The inability to restore two thirds of the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the fifth vocation is described in the Decree as a fact that is absolutely not a perfect fact. The legal analysis of this Order shows a violation by President 6, 19, 106 and 24,150 of the Constitution of Ukraine, since, pending completion, I quote: “before the completion of the judicial hearings on the renewal by the national deputies of their powers and the completion by the Central Electoral Commission of the procedure for the replacement of Ukrainian national deputies, the powers that have been suspended for a period of time, the candidates in the respective electoral lists, in accordance with article 101 of the Ukrainian Law on the Election of Ukrainian People’s Deputies, the President went beyond his authority and, taking his own view of the question of the legitimacy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the light of article 82 of the Constitution, and this is once again a violation of part 4 of article 5 of the Constitution of Ukraine: the replacement of his decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It should be noted that the President does not have constitutional powers to give orders to the Central Election Commission and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, he should do so and they should only do so on the basis of article 19 of the Constitution on the basis of powers and in the manner defined by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. A systematic analysis of the constitutional regulations regarding the language and order of appointment of the President of Ukraine and the conduct of the early elections to Parliament gives rise to that conclusion. The pre-election process to parliament, the requirement set out in article 77, part two, of the Ukrainian Constitution, to which the President refers, must be preceded by the President’s timely suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. With the exception of the cases provided for in the Constitution itself, not on the basis of part two of article 82 of the Ukrainian Constitution. But consider that the constitutional requirement of article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine is implemented by deputies from opposition factions. Then there is a link between 82 articles, 77 articles, and then the President can take such a step. When we were negotiating, I advised the President that there would be a preliminary basis for giving an order by predicting its entry into force in two months before the elections were held. Then no one interferes with Parliament’s work, and he just stops his work under objective circumstances. This is not done, and we are again confronted by the dispute provided for in article 77 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So two months from now, we have to run an election, and we can't do it, because there's an election law that we've adopted, and it also provides for its entry into force with, in fact, September 1st, from August 1st. There's a whole series of legal disagreements, in any case they don't give any reason to conclude that Parliament is not legitimate. And it is clear that great lawyers, as executives of the Administration, can talk about things that apply to Parliament’s authority or not to authority. But he has, in my opinion, a different set of obligations to which he should pay attention rather than interpret the Constitution, interpret the law, and evaluate the higher single legislative body of the State. These are all the objective circumstances that we should consider today. In other words, the process of successive elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the terms of article 77 of the Constitution cannot take place without the publication of an order to terminate the term of office of the Supreme Council. And the process of successive parliamentary elections begins with the date of the issuance of the decree on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council. Here, under any circumstances, you have to issue another decree that meets these standards. Before that, however, we need to find out all the circumstances that are premeditated by the articles I have already mentioned in the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine regarding the replacement of deputies or the impossibility of replacing MPs, the consideration of issues related to the application of national deputies who did not write the application. Those for whom false signatures were signed, those who were not at the convention, I no longer touch on how the convention was organized, who were present, who were watching the rightfulness of the convention itself. For it is said that when an election is held, remember, five days before the assembly, the Central Election Commission, which sends its representative there to monitor the formation of the assembly, which decisions have been made, who has been recorded, and so on. It turns out that it is necessary for a member of the High Council not to go wrong on the list, and when a decision is made that is followed by the dissolution of the Supreme Council and the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council, it turns out that it is not all necessary to do so. Someone came to meet, voted, placed a dot, and it is thought to be a decision. Another detail is that if elections are announced and previous decrees are repealed, all the previous decisions that have been taken as a result of the issuance of those decrees are clearly annulled. I mean making lists, making lists on lists in previous meetings, previous meetings, forming committees, and so forth. The whole procedure is extended for two months, all of which must be done first in order to ensure legal integrity and that all subjects of the election, if any, should participate equally in the process. There is no basis for that now, and until the issue is resolved, until the deputies who are now deputies have their rights, it is not possible to speak of the legality of such an order. So yesterday, I said that in the resulting part of the deal, it seems to be flawless, but there's no justification for it. So we have to get out of this situation, I don't even say that the adoption of such an order is obviously provided for in the Constitution, in article 90, in consultation with heads, with Parliament's leadership, with factions' leaders. And it turns out that only two factions or factions have been consulted and a decision has been made. I didn't want to continue to comment on this so that I wouldn't insult the President's legal advisers, because that's what they're all about, first of all. But, of course, this has to do with the President himself, because he has to look at who's giving him advice. That's the whole point of what we have today. And we have today's legitimate Supreme Council, and I would probably like to repeat the phrase of one of the participants in the meeting here, that "three times dissolved and four times legitimate Supreme Council" continues to work and has been introduced today's issue of 3073 -- the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act, regarding social advertising. I don't see Helen Bondarenko because Pisarenko Valeria hasn't been here for a long time. Leonid Mikhailovich Mordovitz will report to the Committee’s Secretary for Freedom of Speech and Information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! For your consideration is a bill amending the Advertising Act, which is prepared by our colleague, the national deputy of Ukraine Pisarenko. [[on Social Advertisement]] The bill imposes an obligation on the media, advertising distributors whose activities are not financed by government or local budgets, to place social advertising in public authorities and local authorities, public organizations free of charge, at least four percent of the time spent on advertising. Also, according to the bill, advertisers in the media are obliged to provide benefits in the placement of social advertising, which includes educational facilities, health facilities held at the expense of government, or local budgets, as well as charitable organizations. At the same time, the author of the bill notes that the adoption of the bill does not require amendments to other legislation in Ukraine. Yet this bill conflicts with the Code of Masters of Ukraine. In particular, it is a matter of violating the principles of entrepreneurial activity, other rules of the Code. Questions have also arisen regarding the application of this bill. In particular, there's no time to spread this kind of ad -- social advertising can be posted, for example, from 24 to 5 a.m., all four percent when it doesn't carry out its workload. Incomprehensible from the text is the provision of paragraph 2 of the bill, namely, whether these four percent of the placement of social advertising, the contracting authority of which is the educational and health institutions that are kept at the expense of the state budget, as well as charitable organizations. By making certain commitments, the bill does not provide for the responsibility of violating them. The bill foresees obligations for printed and electronic media only, leaving behind other means of advertising, such as external advertising, which has signs of protectionism. This bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Freedom of Speech and Information and is the submission of our committee on the rejection of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u23	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I also have an offer to support the rapporteur's proposal. And I would like to take this opportunity, Adam Ivanovich, to address you as chairman right now, which is really, we need to finally get to the events that took place yesterday on the basis of the third, third decree that came out, maybe the Supreme Council should look at us and prepare a bill and commit the government to stop funding, such institutions that don't allow the Ukrainian people to live peacefully, to work and to build Ukraine. I mean, the President's Office, these officials, the underprivileged lawyers, who provoke and establish the President, stop their vitality, can't be financed anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u25	Here's to the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u26	I propose that I personally submit such a project to Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u27	Give it to me, but I'm reminding you there's no president's office. Please, Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u28	Thank you. I also want to ask the reporter a question. It's about socializing our ads, because everywhere we see advertising about vodka, we reproduce and things like that. You know, just the outsider, when he comes to our country, it's like he's into a world that's not a civilized world. So tell me, please, your personal point of view, is it necessary for the state to regulate all of this, or should you add to this you know, this social idea not only in advertising and everywhere, but in advertising primarily because, as we see it, it meets us every step of the way and sometimes forms not only about the city or the area, but about the whole society very negatively.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u29	Thank you for asking. I want to say that in October of the first month, we discussed two of the bills of our colleagues Bespalogo and Tomenko regarding the advertising of alcoholic products and tobacco products, which, by amending the advertisements that envision the introduction of a number of restrictions. This bill was considered in a second reading and is now on the committee for review in a re-reading, for preparation for re-second reading. Of course, this is a very pressing problem, and when we talk about the idea that is set up in this bill of ours, it makes sense and has the right to exist. But it is necessary that these norms, I think, be legitimized in these previous, previous bills amending the Advertising Act and, of course, predicting the norms that apply to social advertising. Moreover, if you remember, we have also considered a bill of government that applies to advertising. And prepare one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u30	Tarasov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u31	Vladimir Tarasov, Socialist Party of Ukraine Leonid Mikhailovich, there is a notion in this bill that social advertising is. I read: “This information of any kind is distributed in any form aimed at achieving socially useful goals, promoting human values.” And so on. I want to understand, in your opinion, and in the view of the committee, when you've been looking at it, is there really an urgent need for such a concept to be introduced, or is it still a question that is irrelevant today? There's one more thing I want to say. Today we see sometimes, when, in the form of so-called social advertising, it's written, it's supposed to be a state enterprise. Well, that's it, you know what it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u32	Well, the Act on Advertising clearly defines what, the notion of social advertising. In particular, this article 11, and in particular part three, also provides for rules on, for example, printed media financed by the State Budget, at least five percent of the airtime or printed area, the printed media should be allocated to social advertising. Well, what we have on the outside media, often, we can see this kind of ad that you're talking about, it's happening. And it's also necessary by law to standardize the use of that kind of advertising. And the language here goes even further, and we're looking at reforming public utilities when they're not going to be funded from the state budget. So this right over here is going to have to, of course, take these moments into account as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u33	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u34	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I support the adoption of this bill in the first reading. And I believe that today all means, both public and non-state, must find room for social advertising. Because today, those who have no finances need it. These are educational institutions, cultural institutions, and health institutions. Many charities are unable to finance today. And today, through social advertising, we can sharpen these social problems that are in society. We can sharpen and turn the public back to solving these problems that we've discovered in the population today. We're going to be able to form new social values. And I think we should, in the first reading, adopt this bill. But, really, I don't think it's all accounted for, it's not all settled. Today, we need to determine why four, not five or ten percent, of this advertisement. And how to react when the commercial goes after 23, 24 hours. Will it be social? Thank you. What do you think?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u35	After 24 hours and five hours, we have a small percentage of our citizens watching electronic media. So, if at this time, such an advertisement, it's not going to be effective. Another way of thinking about it is, let's say, other types of advertising. And with regard to reconciliation, it's about getting in line with the current Code of the Master because this bill doesn't take those moments into account. Obviously, the committee will pay attention to these things when working on them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u36	Thank you. Have a seat. Please. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion from the faction, please sign up. Individually. Yes, please, 12 minutes Bogchuk, Borschewski get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u37	Vasil Bogchuk, socialist party, Ternopil. Dear Chairman, distinguished national MPs! I'm sure you'll agree with me when I say that the freest, most entrenched, and those who allow themselves to speak to everyone without exception, and they're sure to stick on their pages on radio, on television, so-called novices -- they're independent, non-state media. More often than not, they can allow themselves to have yellow themes or so-called “no taboo” themes. This is not always ethically available to all without exception to the audience of readers, audiences, and audiences. This freedom is not always conducive to a person’s harmony, to a person’s high morals, and to society. But to me, as a representative of the Socialist Party, the Party of Democratic Choice, the Party of European Freedom of speech has always been, is and will be, above all. You can't live in society and be free of it. That is why I consider it extremely important for Parliament to discuss and approve a draft law amending the Advertising Act, which prevents the establishment of media-related advertising distributors whose activities are not financed by public or local budgets, from placing social advertising on a free-of-charge basis by public authorities, local self-government bodies and public organisations. And I think it needs to be set here not 4%, but at least 5% of the air time or the printed space for advertising. This, I'm sure, will be fair and fair, because somehow we need to change society's thinking, we need to sharpen the social problems that are in our society today. We need to show you how to solve these problems today. In line with this bill, such media outlets will be obliged to grant benefits when social advertising is distributed, which is the primary source of education, culture, health care, or charitable organizations. True, the bill defines neither species nor the size of such benefits. I think we're going to have to settle this issue before we get to the second reading. It's also necessary for the second reading, if we take it in the first, to settle the percentage, how much percentage of social advertising, and when social advertising is to be posted, or whether it should be an effective time up to 23 hours. Because after 23 hours, I don't think it's an effective time for social advertising. Thank you. I support the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u38	Borszewski gives the word Samoylik, please. Prepare Tedeva.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u39	Thank you. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support this bill in the first reading and ask everyone to support it. On the urgency of social advertising, as well as the ban on advertising alcohol, the Communist cigarette was emphasized three years ago. And when we consider raising our young people, which was discussed at the session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we have even included two paragraphs of the decree that prohibit the promotion of antisocial, anti-moral advertising. Regrettably, even though these points were included in the decision, they still remain unfulfilled. Why? Because it's a very powerful lobby. Even before considering today’s issue, we received a large number of letters from various advertising agencies that are calling and asking us: Please do not accept this law and so forth. Please tell us who will then think about the morality of our society, who will fight against the bad habits of our young people if we are with you, the national electorate, the Ukrainian national deputies, let us skip and leave as we are today. Personally, the Olympic champions told me: “Catherine Seminally, well, can you agree with this advertisement: ‘If you want to lose weight, don’t wear yourself out with diets; do you want to lose weight with sports and physical things, take drugs there, “Ideals” and what else do you have, belts that are different, and you will be like an alley? ’ Well, please tell me, is it propaganda for a healthy way of life, or is it social orientation, moral orientation? Or what I said was, "We're multiplying -- we have to be spaced; we're multiplying." There is a human secret where, if you'll excuse me, even advertising should not interfere. And so I think, yes, we have a very serious point to make, and we will make a note of the second reading necessarily. But I would ask all Ukrainian national MPs to support in the first reading a draft of Ukrainian law, the time has come, think about our social choices and the morals of society. And this is where advertising plays its part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u40	Thank you. Yes, please, Cibenko Peter Stepanovich. Get ready, Bulby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u41	The Communist faction, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Peter Cibenko Dear colleagues, you know, I'm probably not going to open up to anyone in America if I say that for me, let's say the process of lawmaking is associated with a bird with two wings: one wing, so to speak, a political wing, which is provided by political factions, and the other wing provides professional work for the relevant professional committees. And without any of these wings, the process of lawmaking can't move. I have great respect for the decisions of the profiling committees. What's more, he's the head of the committee himself, he's a social worker, but I think in this particular case, the committee, when it's decided to reject this draft law, is not entirely right, because it's about social advertising, more about law, about the ability of central authorities and local self-government authorities to post social advertising, I'm stressing social advertising, about social advertising on advertising agencies and in publications that are profiled. The second element of this law is to place social advertising, which is based on education, culture, health, and so on. I think, even once again, given the profile committee's opinion, I think that this document should be supported in the first reading and even in spite of the fears expressed, let's say, by the profile committee, still accept it. There is a problem that needs to be solved. There are questions that really need to be posted, including in the form of social advertising. You know, my dear colleagues, in this case, I'm addressing representatives of the National Unity Coalition with one of these. In recent times, social problems have been solved. What's more, we could have done a lot more, but in the circumstances where the major mass of the media, including the media that publishes advertising, is in someone else's hands, in fact everything we do with you is crossed out by what's being done today: The coalition of national unity shaves, diminishes, distorts, and this greatly reduces the effectiveness of our work. I believe that the adoption of this document, at least on the first reading, paves the way for a change in this situation. And I am absolutely convinced that this law should be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u42	Please, Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u43	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. First of all, I want to remind the people of Ukraine of some facts that they must know. Ukraine produced only two billion dollars of vodka in 2006. That is, in a year, Ukraine consumes 11 billion dollars only in the accounted for vodka. But that, by the way. Most of the gorilla kings belong to the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko, but not that. We consume so many vodkas, of course, not from a good life, but also because a lot of advertising that spreads in the day and night and applies to both the Five Chapels, there, and the Clean One, and also the God of which, of course, they influence that young people are particularly tempted and, after all, young people are the first to respond to all this advertising. And so any attempt we make to, let's just say a little bit about this evil, let's just take a little bit of this, let's say, this kind of unnecessary advertising stream really, really necessary social advertising has to be supported. Of course, the bill is imperfect, of course, this 4 percent, they can't be justified, because if we're talking about utilities, there should be something about these assets, these owners, defined by the law 5 percent, here is 4. Of course, there's a fear that this, this 4 percent would be advertised at that time. When few look at the advertisements, this and few are users of the advertisement. But in any case, I say, the bill is useful, the yoga should be adopted in the first reading and, after further processing, adopted as a law as a whole. I think it'll be good for society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, we will be determined. I'm betting on a vote on acceptance as a basis. [[B in m in s a l in]] on the adoption as a basis of the first reading of the draft law amending the Law on Advertising in Ukraine. [[on Social Advertisement]] Registration number 3073. [[11:14:16]] Z-62 Not accepted. Of course, of course. Dear colleagues, it is clear that the owners of television and radio do not want to continue because it deprives them of their earnings, it is better to advertise what does not contribute to the development of society, but it makes a profit than to give to society. Project withdrawn. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain activities is under consideration. Registration number 3483. Sergey's bag. But I wanted to know if this law was signed that we accepted it. We have not accepted it, so we cannot make changes to a law that is not yet law. We voted, but the president hasn't signed this law yet, he hasn't become law yet. For us it's not the law, for us and for society, the law when it's the law, and the law becomes when there's a President's signature, or when there's a President's signature, it's 15 days it's made public, so we can't make changes to a law that's not the law, because it's on the President's signature. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u45	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! You are right if we were to adopt a basic law and this law was the basis for us to amend the law today. And the licensing of individual business activities, the registration number that went before that law, was already a change to the Business Licensing Act. This is additional, let's say, changes in line with the changes that we have made will be an additional change. Therefore, if the President signs that part of the law it is absolutely unrelated to our amendments today, that right will veto it or he will sign it, that is one moment. The second point is, in this regard, to be made clear in relation to the licence issued for transport activities. This will simply complement the existing body of the bill signed to date in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u46	That's not true. Because when we passed that law, I remember that it was such an offer to accept, but we did not accept that amendment. I stress once again that we do not create a situation that we are amending the law that is signed by the President. There's no article there, is there? You will then answer along with the author. Please, Pasek Sergey Nikonovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u47	Honorable Adam Ivanovich, a respected national deputy, is proposed to clarify the licensing authority’s mandate by allowing him to carry out a prior, prior to the issuance of a licence, checking the holder’s licence subject if this is provided by a special law governing relations in a particular area of farming. This is due to the fact that a carrier who intends to carry out commercial activities in the field of road transport must confirm his or her compliance with the material and technical conditions of storage, the operation of transport equipment, the qualifications of personnel that ensures the organisation and safety of transport with a view to providing high-quality services for the transport of passengers and cargoes. The proposal was found in support of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which noted the need for a legislative settlement of the procedure for prior verification of the carrier's conformity to licensing conditions, as a more appropriate way of resolving the issue. Which is defined by a special law that regulates relationships in a certain area of economic activity, especially in road transport, is a law on road transport. Please support the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, number 3483. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u48	Are there any questions? Sign up. Please, Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u49	Thank you. Sir, please tell me, or maybe this is a move: I'll get a license and then I'll rent an enterprise and work, how can you check all this out?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u50	If you have a license, this question is about a previous check when there is no license. When you have a license and it's real, you rent. No further testing is required if you have a license. We're talking about a preliminary test before the license is issued.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u51	Please, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u52	Please pass the word Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u53	It's a motorcycle microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u54	Thank you. Hey, buddy! I'm really surprised I didn't know that prior to the issue of the licenses, conditions really don't check, and the license is issued. And now I understand, I have a bus in Chaplin County, for example, in Butozarovec, 28 years old, and he's carrying 60 kids, by the way, a busload of 60 kids, and he's licensed, he's fine. Yes, tell me, please, whether or not you should check the licenses you already have today. Because we know how licenses are obtained, some are obtained honestly, and others are obtained, taking into account the level of corruption in our country, we know how. So shouldn't we still check the terms of the previous license?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u55	Thank you for asking. In fact, when we proposed a change in legislation, we meant to reduce the number of road traffic accidents due to the issuance of the licence is not controlled because the principle of today's licensing is such: the person wrote the application, so its licensing authorities should issue this license. All of it. We suggest that now, first of all, we issue a license, we come to the place to see the storage conditions, the professions of the people who serve, and only then issue a license. If the person who works in this field of motor vehicle activity allows for a violation of the rules of transportation, the provision of services, and so on, it must be checked and removed, and if they have taken the licence, we need to check further, and then we clean up the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u56	Bronjikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u57	Bronnikov, the Regions. I fully agree with you and call on everyone to support this bill, as transport is dangerous. We know how many such carriers are on our roads and on the roads of Europe and how many people are killed. But there are other activities where required before the licence is issued. For example, we built a railway bridge through Dnieper and it turns out that neither the designer can design it nor the builders can do it. Do you plan to revise the bill in such a way that any possible harm to a person and damage to a State was a preliminary inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u58	Thank you for asking. In principle, all activities related to dangerous transportation or activities in the field of farming need to be reviewed because the question of providing services to a loved one, if this interferes with human health, of course we should examine. As the most dangerous activity is transporting by car, you know that we are now without war losing thousands of people dead a year in Ukraine. Of course, I took note of this activity. If there are suggestions from interested ones, it is meant from the owners, of course there is a point to review these questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u59	The truth is that we are now building bridges along, not across. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Mr.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u60	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! The Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, at its meeting on 22 May this year, considered a bill tabled by People's MP Pachesuk at number 3483. The main objective of the bill is to protect consumers'rights in safe economic activities by pre-checking and having the necessary conditions for carrying out such activities, if provided by a special law. The main scientific expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the bill as a basis. The Committee also decided to adopt it as a basis, why? Because of the issues raised here and from the problems that exist, there are indeed points that should be finalized and that should be taken seriously into account in the drafting of the second reading bill. For example, the type of activity is very complex and not simple. As far as possible, trade in licences as such should be excluded so that this business, which unfortunately thrives to this day, when one of the firms, having certain access and channels, is licensed and then set up a business by selling it directly, is meant to sell the shell itself, the firm itself with a licence and a change within the owner, should be excluded. This is the first moment. Second moment. We need to close down the niche of joint activities when a large transport undertaking receives a licence to carry out an activity and goes under its wing, let us say, incomprehensiblely who, with questionable vehicles, with questionable vehicles, we will say, with reputations and then carry out this activity, it is also necessary to close this trap, and now the people's deputies from the Committee for European Integration are telling us that it is in Europe that this is how it is done today, all of these roads are closed. Therefore, there is a proposal to adopt it on first reading so that once we have finalized, we can have a clear law that actually regulates the security system and the licensing control system, the system for monitoring the operation of these funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u61	Thank you. Are there any questions? Yes, there is. Please come back, Sergey Anatolyevich. Sergey Anatolyevich, come back. Bronnic, Smith.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u62	Sergey Anatolievich, but in addition to the fact that the licence is issued, is not issued to an unprepared carrier and, as they say, the trade is still subject to the liability of the licensor, that if he has issued the license and the enterprise that owns the licence has violated and, God forbid, killed people there, he must be held accountable on an equal footing with that person, because he did not foresee under the terms of the licence the possibility of not violating the licence. Is this going to happen or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u63	Absolutely agreed with you, this is also one of the things that should be taken into account for the second reading, although it is legally settled, from part to part, we have a system of responsibility. Unfortunately, however, this system of responsibility is such that, I will not comment simply, I would not like to do so, that today is really the responsibility of who issues this licence, who controls what is actually on the ground. We've encountered many things, let's say, on the same license to issue the right to process and realize the scrap. Unfortunately, we have come across this example and seen when the stage would have begun, as it were, from the same on-the-spot checks, from monitoring and so on, and it has ended now that we have more than three thousand actors involved in this process. And it's not like rent or subterranean, there's some firms that just don't have a desk or a computer anymore. Therefore, the licensing system should also be, I agree with you for 100 per cent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u64	Garbage, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u65	Smith, Party of Regions. Sergey Anatoliyovich, such a question about this bill. We all know that all motor vehicles undergo a technical survey every year. In your opinion, at the same time, we may increase the requirements for technical inspection of means of transport that must meet the safety of operation and thus reduce road accidents. And if it's not connected, then today that one authority is issuing licenses, the technical examination is going through another, and the third party is operating. And that's what happens when we have such a terrible situation on the road, where tens of thousands of people die in an empty place every year.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u66	Thank you. Let's think about it in committee, but, frankly, my first impression, my first opinion, I wouldn't interfere with this whole thing in one, so to speak, in one node for one simple reason. Because the technical requirements and regulations of the technical inspection are a certain rule written by law. And they are clearly defined. And today there are certain requirements for transport that transports passengers. No matter what they do. Whether it is private exports, whether it is public exports, whether it is exports at the level, we will say so, some structures created by the State together with private structures. These are rules and requirements that are clearly defined by law. This is a bit of another. This means that you can obtain the right to engage in some kind of business or export. But to do that, you have to at least, the first stage, go through all the conditions, the inspection, you have to have transportation. What's the point of this law? What's the point? What's the point? Is he fit? Because sometimes half-carriage is used in this case. And they go under one mode of transport, and they actually use it for other things. So,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u67	Thank you. Have a seat. Anyone who wants to step out of the faction, please sign up. Yes, individually. Yes, please, Bronnikov Vladimir Kostinovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u68	Dear colleagues! You and I are considering a very important bill. On the one hand, entrepreneurs are groaning from all supervisors, licensors. And it's become a source, well, softly put, of corruption, of larceny. On the other hand, we see people dying in aviation, in nuclear energy, and in road transport. We have great losses for the State because of the work allowed, and the services of the firm that purchased these licences are allowed. I'll remind you of the famous investigation into that plane that crashed in Donbass. You remember the conclusion of the Russian commission prohibiting the use of spare parts and prohibiting the use of untapped professionals by those who received services in or by any firms who had placed formerly or placed uncertified spare parts there. It is also true in nuclear energy when the firm that provides services is, in part, the intermediary, but it has legislation. I therefore call for careful attention to this law and support it. I continue to report to you that we have begun the drafting of a bill of permits for nuclear energy in order to exclude the possibility of unskilled provision of services. And the second. In this regard, I call on the committees concerned to reconsider the Tenders Act in public companies, on tendering for budgetary money. Price – not all, security is the basis for guaranteed reliability and quality of services – the basis. Because these two bills intersect. On the whole, I propose to support this bill, and on second reading, and on second reading, I ask the committee, Matvienko, to take into account the conflict situation that exists in arbitrary activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u69	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Registration number 3483. [[11:34:29]] For 255 Copy that. I'm addressing the committee head. Please consider the wishes of the Legal Authority, a more faithful scientific expert, to change the name of the law, which is not generally a law, because there is already such a law, but by 6, if I am not mistaken about the article. Is it there at six?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u70	In short, you don't listen to me and you're going to fall, and you're going to fall. Okay. We need to put it into the agenda and consider the draft Act amending articles 155,156 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. [[on the Depravity of Minors]] [[Registration number 3215]] Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:35:27]] For 244 The question is included. Please, one of the legislators of the Malishev initiative Vladimir Stepanovich. Get Gusarov ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished media representatives, respected Ukrainian citizens. Despite efforts by public authorities, NGOs, and international social organizations, the sexual exploitation of children remains an acute social problem for Ukraine today. Yes, according to public organizations, just think, 1 out of every 7 teenagers is sexually abused by adults. At the same time, according to the Department of the Criminal Police, only 50 cases have been dealt with in juvenile affairs in the past year, according to article 155, “State relations with a person who has not reached sexual maturity”, and about 200, according to article 156, “The Fury of Minors”. Regrettably, the standards of criminal law do not allow criminal responsibility to be brought to the fore by all those who have committed these terrible crimes, since it contains a clear list of subjects of responsibility. Information provided by social organizations that care for children’s rights, particularly those deprived of parental care, shows that more and more of these crimes are committed by educators, educators, health care providers, or other institutions that are obliged to care for or care for their children. Therefore, the aim of the development of the amendments to articles 155, 156 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the Depravity of Minors is to ensure the best interest of the child and to improve Ukraine’s current legislation regarding the criminalization of acts against the child by clarifying the circle of persons who are subject to appropriate crimes, which will help to protect and protect children more fully and effectively when committing crimes. The bill is thus proposed in parts of other articles 155 and 156 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine instead of: “qualified signs of father, mother, person replacing them” to provide for: “a qualification mark of a father, mother, guardian or caregiver, another member of the family, as well as an employee of the educational, educational, medical or other institution obliged to raise or care for the victim.” The adoption of Ukraine's amendment law to articles 155, 156 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code will help improve the development of children, improve the protection of families and children from social and dangerous interference. The draft law is supported and recognized by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Attorney General's Office, the Security Service and the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. The adoption of the bill does not require amendments to other laws and regulations, as well as additional material or other costs. Please support the draft law that will ensure the best interest of the child. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u72	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee for the Legislative Security of Sergey Mikolayovich Hussarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Articles 155, 156 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code establish criminal responsibility for sexual relations with a person who has not reached sexual maturity and for the depravity of minors. In case of wrongdoing, they may be attracted to the parent, the mother, or the person who replaces them, or those on whom the minor is dependent. Yet, the child is also dependent on those who care for him. It's not just a father or a mother. The Ukrainian Family Code clearly establishes those who are responsible for orphans and children who are deprived of parental care. Their designated caregivers and caregivers may also serve as health, educational, or other caregivers. [[Articles 243 and 244 of the Ukrainian Family Code]] [[Article 245 of the Ukrainian Family Code]] Thus, current criminal law leaves outside the criminal responsibility of persons who may fall under it in connection with the performance of their duties. At the same time, the Ukrainian Child Protection Act stipulates that the State must create safe conditions for life and health, child development, and the protection of the child from all forms of violence. It should be emphasized that committing a crime to a minor who is physically, mentally, and socially addictive is damaging to the morale of society and the development of a minor. The child will experience deep emotional trauma, which will necessarily affect the future of social adaptation. In order to strengthen the legislative guarantees for the rights of the child, as well as to bring Ukraine's Criminal Code into line with the Ukrainian Family Code, the Ukrainian Child Protection Act proposes a draft Act amending articles 155, 156 of the Criminal Code on the Depravity of Minors. The project envisions changes to the position of part two of these articles by clarifying the list of subject of criminal responsibility. Instead of being replaced by a parent, a specific list is provided: a parent, a mother, a caregiver, a caregiver, or other family members, as well as a caregiver, an educational, medical, or other institution, who is obliged to care for or care for the victim. After reviewing the draft law, the committee notes that the proposed changes to criminal law are based on the position of valid sector legislation, and are both appropriate and right. The Chief Scientific and Expert Administration of the Supreme Council's Apparatus concluded without notice and believes that the bill can be adopted in the first reading as a basis. The ministries and authorities to which the requests were made provided positive feedback. According to the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues, implementation of the draft law does not require additional funding from the State Budget, including during the current budget period. In view of what has been said, the Committee recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the draft law be adopted as a basis for consideration in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u74	Thank you. Although it is likely that if it expands around those who can be planted, the budget needs to be maintained. Please, is there a question? You don't? All right, have a seat. Anyone who wants to participate in the discussion, please register with the factions. Individually. Yes, please, Matthew. Samilik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u75	Thank you. I am ashamed of those Ukrainian national deputies, the women who initiated the bill and did not come forward to consider the bill. This is the price of responsibility to the electorate, the price of responsibility to the children, the price of responsibility and the performance of their functions. It's a shame. I want to say that a Ukrainian mother, a woman, has a really, really caring, special attitude towards a child and is often called a turtledove. Because like a turtledove, she clings to her baby and does everything she can to protect her with her wings. And God forbid that anyone offends his child, and everything that is moral, and everything that is high he tries to raise in his child. The Supreme Council of Ukraine voted in favour of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act a few years ago. But we really did not foresee criminal responsibility for crimes. Maybe when we voted, because it was about five years ago and it wasn't necessary. Unfortunately, today we know that some parents and caregivers are in institutions where children are in orphanages. And also in boarding schools, really, we feel that they don't always refer to children who, unfortunately, have either been left without parental care or parental care, or they live in such families. We understand very well what dictates the economic state of our nation, but also the morals of our society, the spirituality and morality of our society, which today is, unfortunately, a zero mark. Because you and I can often be witnesses to the begging, the hard work of our children, and so forth. More than that, I will tell you that there are even foster families that only take their children to get an extra living space, having their children, and then, when children become adults, they say goodbye to them. So we have to anticipate the second reading of this whole spectrum that could protect the child from those who want to humiliate him and make him just a slave, or a beggar in our country. We should also remember with you that Ukraine is one of the first places in Europe, the first place in child prostitution, is also a crime in front of children. And so today this bill, which is being put forward, is very important and, of course, if there was a possibility, it would have to be accepted both in the first reading and in general, but that's what the committee's head should say. I think these are the laws that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u76	Sulkowski, please. But on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u77	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Only on the subject. This question is of great importance to the growing generation. And that's why at the faction of the Party of Regions, we've discussed this problem on a number of occasions, and that's why we're approaching today, we've made decisions by the faction of the Party of Regions to support this project, and I think it will benefit Ukraine as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u78	Thank you. Bogchuk needs to be recorded, please, Bogchuk's microphone, but this is the last time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u79	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I would also like to point out that the bill may contain subjects of crime who are employees of a educational, educational, medical, or other institution. In this regard, however, in the article on willlessness, I feel obliged to write down as an additional measure of punishment for the deprivation of the right to take up certain positions, or to engage in certain activities. Because they're in education, they're getting probation and they're going to continue in education or in education, and I don't think they're going to let that happen. As a result, the proposal for additional punishment must be written down. These are words that I propose that you be deprived of the right to hold certain positions or to engage in certain activities for up to three years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u80	Thank you. Thus, he is allowed to sit there from three to five, meaning to be deprived of his term. Probably more than three, because he will sit them down, it is clear that he will be deprived of the right to take up this position. There's three to five punishments, so he's still not going to do it after that. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. You see, it's very resonating with what we didn't support and with the advertising that's flooded and which leads us to be forced to adopt these bills right now. I put to the vote bill number 3215, amending articles 155, 156 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the Depravity of Minors, on the basis of the first reading. Please vote. [[11:50:17]] For 254 Decision taken. The draft Law amending articles 304 and 323 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on the increase of responsibility for crimes against families and children should be incorporated into the agenda. Registration number 3236. Please vote. [[11:50:52]] For 249 Decision taken. Please, Malishev Vladimir Stepanovic. While Vladimir Stepanovich is on his way, I think that on second reading, let him merge these two bills into one, for this is a change to the Criminal Code. So when you prepare for the second reading, you do one project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, a respected colleague, sadly, the realities of our lives show that beggars with babies and young children in their arms are commonplace today. It must be admitted that there is now a comprehensive system of beggary business, including in organized systemic forms, which makes a bet on children. The smaller the child’s age, the more income it can bring to a person who actually exploits it by speculating at his age. According to the criminal police, about two thousand criminal cases were committed in Ukraine last year because of the involvement of minors in begging. While there are serious reasons for doubting the fullness of these indicators. The statistics that exist today confirm the fact that a world conducive to children is still uncreated and the rights of children are still being violated. Statistics from the U.S.S. state that during the first quarter of this year there were 47 crimes committed against children, including the involvement of children in criminal activities, and the encouragement of minors to use drugs. Regrettably, the standards of effective criminal law do not meet the last challenges of society. Yes, the increasing involvement of children in criminal activities, the encouragement of children to use doping is being done by a parent, mother, caregiver or caregiver, another member of the family, as well as by an employee of a parental, educational, medical, or other institution obliged to care for or care for the child. Involving your child in criminal activities, encouraging children to use doping, both for a useful purpose, such as earning income, and without such intents, is an abuse of social trust and a violation of parental responsibilities. In this case, there is a health, honor, dignity, and well - being of a child who should not remain unpunished. In addition, such actions should be viewed as burdensome circumstances by parents, caregivers, other family members, educators. In this regard, it is necessary to amend articles 304, “Involvement of minors in criminal activity” and 323, “Snatting minors to do drugs”, by providing them with new, qualified signs of appropriate crime and by clarifying the specific subject matter of the crime. These changes are in the comparative table that you have before you, you have had the opportunity to get to know them. Please support them. The adoption of the bill does not require amendments to other laws, to legal acts or to additional material or other costs. Please support the bill to protect the child's interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u82	Thank you, are there any questions? Rich guy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u83	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Vladimir Stepanovich, I support the fact that we need to make changes today, both in the previous law and in this law, because there is a real increase in the number of people who are the subject of these crimes. But in addition to the fact that the subject of crime is still a worker of educational, educational and medical institutions, I think that there is also a need to introduce an additional measure of punishment to the basic extent of the punishment. Because practice has often shown that the basic measure of punishment is always, as an alternative, chosen or conditional, or delayed execution of the sentence, and so on. That there are certain positions to be taken, or that there are certain activities to be carried out. How you feel about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u84	Thank you, but I think the court will get a conviction, and he's got one in court, too. Well, I agree with you, for second reading, I support Mrs. Samuelk, very rightly said, we're going to make very serious changes, including this. Besides, my friends, I'd like each of us to go to the children's house, I've been there recently, you've all been there, this is all born with blood and life. When you see these children for three or seven years, I think it's time for our opposition to go there, they'll find themselves very and very. I'm afraid we're gonna leave the desert behind if we keep working and not doing our kids like this. Sorry a little bit about your emotions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u85	Thank you. Have a seat. Gusarov Sergey Mikolaiovich, Head of the Committee on Legislative Security and Protection Rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u86	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Criminal Code of Ukraine provides for criminal responsibility for the involvement of minors in drunkenness, begging, gambling is article 304 of the Criminal Code, as well as their motivation for the use of doping, article 323 of the Criminal Code. Yet, the responsibility of those on whom the child is dependent and those on whom he is not dependent is the same. The Ukrainian Children’s Protection Act, the Ukrainian Family Code relies on parents, mothers, caregivers, caregivers, health care agencies, and specific responsibilities to raise and care for a child. It states that parents or persons who replace them are responsible for creating the conditions necessary for the child’s development in accordance with Ukrainian law, this is article 8 of the Ukrainian Child Protection Act. In view of this, the project proposes the introduction of the criminal responsibility of a father, mother, caregiver or caregiver, another member of the family, an educational, medical, or other institution, to raise or care for the victim. Qualifying the sign of severe consequences, replace it with signs of moderate gravity, severe bodily damage. Set the time limit for a minor to be deprived of his liberty under eight years of age if his death results. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine has made observations and proposals. First, it is to reconcile the proposed term “the same action” and the terms “snapping” used in current legislation. The other one. It is doubtful that the replacement of a qualification sign has serious consequences for the average severity, severe bodily harm. Because then all the serious consequences that may arise are not taken into account. Third. It is inappropriate to establish criminal responsibility for encouraging a minor to use drugs, since such responsibility is provided for in article 121 of the Criminal Code, which is a form of reckless killing. At the same time, the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority believes that this bill can be adopted in the first reading, based on observations. For my part, I think the remark is correct. The Legislature Committee, law enforcement, reviewed the project and suggested that it be accepted as a basis for further consideration. Please be supportive. These wishes, Adam Ivanovich, will be considered and merged into these two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u87	Are there any questions? Yes. Please sign in. Yes. Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u88	Egorenko, please give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u89	Please, Bogchuk. You're not Corge, are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u90	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear reporter, don't you think that in article 323 the motivation of minors to apply doping in the first part is needed, where the penalty is fined and the word “or” is deprived of the right to take and leave “the penalty as a basic measure of punishment” and all the more so leave as an additional measure of punishment. And in all the other parts, I'm going to suggest you leave an extra amount of punishment. Here. And I think it's necessary to have one where a qualifying sign is made to divide the crimes into, one part, committed by the father, mother, guardian, caregiver, other members of the family and yet separate the crimes committed by the employees of the educational, educational, medical and other institutions, a separate part. There is no doubt that there is an additional measure of punishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u91	Well, I see you're taking a very active part in discussing these bills today, so if there's any interest, please come to the committee meeting and we'll take all your suggestions into account. I think they're right and they're controversial, and we're going to look at them in the second reading, if they're supported by the committee and the authors of this bill, they're definitely going to be taken into account, and if they don't, they're going to be taken into account, and if they don't, they're going to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u92	A colleague of Bogchuk like any other national MP can make a second reading offer of any kind. So we encourage him to do it. Garden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u93	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, first of all, I am grateful to my colleagues for the fact that we are still taking on the destruction of the negative phenomena that exist in our society. It's a beggar business, it's a drunkenness, it's a drug use, it's a juvenile involvement in prostitution and stuff. But I have a question of this nature. I don't see if there's the responsibility of local councils, education departments and education authorities for what the accounting of school-age children is and what the involvement of those children is, not what we're talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u94	No, well, we just said there's a responsibility, but it's the same. And for those who have an appropriate relationship with subjects, well, health or education, and so forth. So we have to differentiate responsibility. And we're making proposals here that which, where is the responsibility, whether it's the father, or the mother, or those guardians, or the caregivers, or the education workers, and all that. So this, this is counted. Maybe we'll have a little chat, see you carefully. I mean, as far as doping is concerned, you know, sports are young. And everyone wants to see some high results come true. And there really is this, this big field, this field of activity for these cases. And I'm counting on what we don't put in front of ourselves, those who are the authors of the law, or the committee, just to involve in criminal responsibility, to expand the circle, and this law, it's working preventively on these people. And officials, including persons, have preventive measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u95	Please, Yegorenko Tamara Vasilevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u96	I'm sorry, I'm not gonna ask you a question, but I'm gonna tell you in the discussion, okay?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u97	Okay, if you sign up. Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u98	I want to talk to you about this proposal and the question that Adam Ivanovich has already asked. In fact, two of these bills are very close to each other. And do you think it would be wise to unite them? Because, practically, we are going, we are talking about the same thing, in the development of the Ukrainian Child Rights Act, we continue to foresee criminal responsibility for violating the rights of the child. Shouldn't we still be able to unify these two bills before the second reading, or one of them to your discretion, at your suggestion, we would have taken the latter as a basis, and the other was already an addition to the basic law and that we would have adopted one law. Because it doesn't make any sense, really, to consider two laws. The way you're looking at it and whether you're going to come up with this proposal and the committee that you're presenting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u99	We're going to take this proposal and these, and it's worth it, as you say, and, really, I said in my speech that those proposals by Adam Ivanovich we're going to support and do. And I'd like more.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u100	Yes, yes, you do, please speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u101	To conclude, I would like to say that as in other countries of Europe or America, such as human rights, especially those of a child in the family. Otto comes to school only, takes a boy to school or even a preschool, comes to the police and gives his business cards and calls, instructs. He says if there's any questions, here's my phone and stuff. So that's how we're supposed to go for the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u102	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, there is an offer to continue the sessions before the discussion is concluded, so that we do not take a break, because we have literally few left. Is there no objection? Please vote. Anyone for such an offer, please vote. [[12:06:26]] For 252 Decision taken. Anyone who wants to participate in the discussion from the faction, please sign up. Yes, individually. Yeah, let's do 9 minutes, 10. Cibenka, please. Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. Communist faction, Peter Cibenko. The fact that a draft law appeared in the order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s day does not, of course, add optimism to the assessment of our society. What's even more frightening is that the appearance of this bill is a reaction to the fact that there are such phenomena in our society, unfortunately, too many. And all of this shows that the level of moral decline in our society is, unfortunately, extremely high. But at the same time, I would like to say that there really is a problem that needs to be settled and addressed absolutely. What is more, when children are involved, minors are involved in crime, drunkenness, begging, gambling. But it is three times frightening when parents, caregivers, or caregivers are involved in their upbringing. So there is absolutely no doubt in the faction of Communists that this document should be adopted at least in the first reading, taking into account all the suggestions that were being made today, and they were indeed extremely necessary, correct and must be addressed. The Communist faction therefore advocates the adoption of this document. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to another issue, which, from my point of view, is important in terms of the technology of the legislation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. What do I mean? The point is that the standards that we are now trying or planning to introduce to the Criminal Code in articles 304 and 323 of the Criminal Code are essentially in the Child Protection Act. That is to say that if we had made these changes to the Child Protection Act at the time of its adoption, we would have made these changes in the form of the Act “On Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine”, we would have made these changes to the Criminal Code at the same time, and to the Law “On Protection of Childhood”. [[on the relevant problem]] Unfortunately, that's when we broke up. And it turns out that in the Child Protection Act, this problem is regulated by the legislature, and in the Criminal Code, not by much. This is, let's say, an unnecessary argument in favour of the fact that the problems that go through a few laws that need to be regulated in several laws are better than anything else, technologically better settled through, let's say, a formula such as making changes to some laws of Ukraine, making them simultaneously into several laws, then they start working simultaneously, and this problem is being settled. I mean, once again, I'm stressing that the Communist faction is in favour of supporting this document in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u104	Garden, please, from the place microphone. After him, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u105	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. It's a shame, of course, that we're discussing a bill that's already in force when we've had negative phenomena like the beggar business, like child drinking, even doping, when sports or other competitions are going on. And especially when young children are involved in prostitution, they properly earn money for someone, and in this case there is such an antihuman attitude. There is experience, past experience, of other European states and not just of European states. For example, in Germany, if a child appears somewhere on the street, the police respond immediately to all these events, and children do not talk when they are in school, as it were, on the street. This experience certainly needs to be used and applied progressively. We had this Law on Education, and it worked quite effectively, when school-age students were totally all very likely to be involved in a school party or an extra-school or extracurricular job. And to that positive we have to go back and work in this direction, in this direction. So first-reading socialists support this bill, and we're going to get involved in making appropriate changes, complementing it to make it more effective. And there is a need to find out more about the responsibility of local councils, education departments, local education authorities, even more so as to make the accounting of children more effective and not only formal accounting, but also the account that tells us that the child is in the classroom or is being used elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u106	Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u107	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I'm short. I support the adoption of these bills, I believe that we need to strengthen responsibility for crimes against the family and children and improve the conditions for the development of children, improve the criminal protection of families, children from social and dangerous attacks. In addition to increasing punishment for these crimes, we need to keep in mind that those children, these young ones, who come out of the crime, also need additional rehabilitation, need shelters for those victims of domestic violence for these children. I also believe that juvenile delinquency, the involvement of minors in criminal activities, and the encouragement of minors to do drugs must be defined as serious crimes, and accordingly a measure of punishment must be chosen. I think that the officials of educational institutions, medical institutions, other institutions that work with minors and young people should know that there is still a strict responsibility for involving minors in criminal activities and that they will be subject to both the basic penalty of deprivation of liberty and the additional penalty of deprivation of the right to engage in certain activities or to take certain positions in the upbringing of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u108	Nuts. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u109	Dear colleagues, indeed, the draft Law amending the relevant articles of the Ukrainian Criminal Code on increasing responsibility for crimes against families and children is absolutely relevant and necessary today. I am fully supportive of my colleagues who have said that life today is what makes and shows that such negative phenomena, trends are happening in our society. And I'd just like to give you a few numbers. For example, while working as district manager, there have been many cases of crime in the area. And there are always about 15 percent of the crimes committed and registered in that crime structure. And today, if you take the hops, the rural areas, this problem is absolutely necessary and necessary. If in a rural area where the population is virtually gone last year, schools are closed for the absence of children, classes, and when seven crimes were committed in a year, today, this year in the first quarter — eight. That's what it means. That a topic is absolutely necessary and changes to the law are absolutely necessary. This is not only true of parents who encourage children to engage in begging, drinking, and so forth. Today in most such parents ask, "Where did your child spend the night?" – they will not say where this child was all night, considering, we know, all these bars and stuff. But also teachers, educators -- they stand, I think, apart from these issues, they beat up anxiety, but not as it should be today. So I absolutely support that this bill needs to be adopted as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u110	Yes, and one minute, Yegorenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u111	Many who have spoken agree very much with their thoughts, my thoughts. I'm just going to add one thing to this day that we need to produce, in my opinion, a control system for our children. And another way to do it is by what financial means these plans are going to be implemented. And speaking to the guarantor of our Constitution, who has his children, for whom I think our country is all children, this money that will be taken to the electoral campaign, could go and help these children and solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u112	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending articles 304 and 323 of the Criminal Code, Bill 3236. Please vote. [[12:17:39]] For 254 Decision taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u113	Ladies and gentlemen, all you have in mind is the inclusion in the agenda: the draft Act amending some of the laws proposed by Deputy Baranowski. I ask you to vote inclusion in the order of the day, let's not look at it, let's just include it. [[12:18:14]] For 249 And now I would like to ask you to include in the order of day a draft Supreme Council decision on the addition to Decree 1097, on certain measures to ensure the implementation of the provisions of article 81, part two, of the Constitution of Ukraine, of the withdrawal. [[B in m in s a l in]] I beg your attention, don't argue. Let's include, I'll explain the point and we'll take a quick look at this. I'm voting for inclusion in. One second. Mikhail Vasilovich, if you don't understand something, then I'll explain it and then you vote. Yes, isn't it? What's the point? I cannot meet the terms of the Supreme Council Rules today and cannot complete the legal procedure for the appointment of deputies. What is it? Deputies take up office on the way and gain authority by making an oath in the session hall. This is natural during a plenary meeting. The procedure for putting an end to the mandate of a member should also begin with the session hall. In accordance with the Rules and the Constitution, we have voted on a regulation that regulates all these procedural points. Let us now recall Friday’s meeting when it took place when it became known that the deputies gave confirmation that they had filed their application for an exit from the faction. And then they approached the chairman, and then Adam Ivanovich held a meeting, saying that these statements would be announced. But then there were two circumstances, first of all, there weren't all those present in the hall who were sort of writing statements. Secondly, of many statements there were doubts as to the validity of those signatures and it was established. And the third. The Rules stipulate that such an announcement shall be made at the next plenary meeting. Why does the Rules do this? Because it was necessary to verify with regard to the signatures themselves. Thus this procedure is not completed, the Rules in article 217, paragraph 6, refer to the timely suspension of the powers of the national deputy on the grounds set out in parts four, fifth of this article, which includes the withdrawal of the factions and part four of this Rule, 218 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules, which reports at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council and provides the order for the termination of the corresponding payments to such a national deputy and reports to the Central Election Commission, which, according to the law of Ukraine on the election of Ukrainian national deputies, recognizes the authority of the next candidate in the national parliament to vote in favour of the electoral party of the political party, such a report is published in the newspaper “Golos of Ukraine”. Without these elements, what I was talking about I could not fulfill the obligation laid down in the Rules for the Head of the Supreme Council. Wait a minute. It is therefore proposed in paragraph three of our ruling, which we have adopted in 30 numbers, which states that the Head of the meeting makes an appropriate announcement, to conclude this paragraph with a brief phrase: “In the event of a personal presence on it”, that is, at the meeting, “the appropriate national deputy of Ukraine” and all. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u114	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, because we are only going to include this bill today, and we will consider it tomorrow, so I ask you, tomorrow, let us put the first question into order and include it tomorrow, and tomorrow we will consider it. He wasn't talking at the faction today, we're not voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-06-m0.u115	Then don't vote, do whatever you want. I'm calling the meeting closed by 10 a.m. tomorrow.
