ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u1	Good afternoon, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, heads of other institutions, journalists, TV setters, radio listeners. In a minute, we'll start our work. I'm asking you to take the seats of the deputies in the hall. Take your seats. Take it, please. A roll call is being made. Turn on the "Race" system. [[10:02:37]] We've registered 387 national deputies. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you all to welcome the 60th anniversary of Stephen Antonovich Dawimuk and wish him good health and success. And don't worry, because at 60 years of age, politics is just starting. Now it's about the order of the day. There is a proposal to include in the agenda today the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. No objections? Then I put this proposal to the vote. [[10:03:43]] For 1052 Let's get the faction leaders together and deal with this. It's gonna be okay. Please. We have a day-to-day draft of the Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, “On the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call and Election of the Head, the First Deputy, the Deputy Head and the Secretary of the Special Supervisory Commission of the Supreme Council on Privatisation”. Reports by Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, proposed instead of the tragic death of our colleague Kushnarov Evgen Petrovich as chairman of the Committee on Legal Policy, Illashov Grigorija Alexiyovich, a national deputy from the multi-mandatory public constituency of the Party of Regions. The faction of the Party of the Regions recommends that he elect the head of the committee by exempting him from the duties of deputy head of the same committee. And secondly, he proposes to be the deputy head of this committee to choose Igor Theodorovitch, the National Deputy of Ukraine, from the faction of the Party of Regions, the deputy head of this committee, the Committee on Legal Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u3	Do you have a question for Vasil Alekseiovich? None. Have a seat, please. Efraemov, head of the committee on matters of parliamentary ethics, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u4	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! At its meeting, the Committee considered draft regulation No. 3046, introduced by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kiselov, on the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Illashova Grigorija Olegiyovich, a member of the MP of the Party of the Regions, the head of the Committee on Legal Policy, releasing him from the duties of deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy and the election of the National MP, Zvarič Igor Theodorovič, a member of the Party of the Regions, a deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, freeing him from his duties as a member of the Party of the Regions. The Supreme Council Rules of Article 7 of the Ukrainian Law “On Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and Part 7 of Article 78 of the Supreme Council Rules of Ukraine, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it support the proposed draft decree. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u5	Is there a question for the reporter? None. Have a seat, please. Now I can put to the vote, but I'd like Illyash to come up and take a look at him as an MP. Look, there's a young athlete, a lawyer, a commodore who used to be. I'm putting to the vote Illashov's candidature, please, for his election as chairman of the committee. Rather, the draft ruling regarding Illashov and Zvarič is put to the vote. Please, 3046 is the registration number. [[10:07:37]] For 347 Decision taken. We welcome them, so to speak, with professional growth and staff. I'm asking for a review of the amendment to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Decision on the Election of Heads, i.e. to the same decision. In this regard, reports Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u6	The Committee considered the application of the Ukrainian National Deputy of Kovalevska Yulia Sergijivna for the renewal of the review at the Ukrainian Supreme Council plenary meeting of the draft Decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, registration number 1159-10 of 10 September 2006 concerning the election of the Ukrainian National Deputy Kovalevska as a member of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster, by exempting it from the duties of a member of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. At its meeting on September 13, this year, the committee considered the draft decree. At the time of consideration of this issue, the estimated quota for the Blackwater Faction Party of the Supreme Council Committee on Environmental Policy and the Elimination of the Consequences of the Chernobyl Disaster was not used, as the Committee informed the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The consideration of this Supreme Council decree was postponed in response to the request of the Ukrainian national deputy Kovalevski. The decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of September 14, 2006, at number 130-5, was elected to the designated Committee of the People’s Deputies. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions’ MPs on committees of up to 20 persons is 7.2 and that the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on environmental policy, environmental management and the elimination of the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster work from the entire faction of seven national deputies, the quota is used. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine not to support the draft decision. On 30 November 2006, the draft ruling was to be considered by the Supreme Council, but at the request of the MP's faction of the Party of the Regions, the review was postponed. This was followed by the commission of the first deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Martinyuk Adam Ivanovich, to return to the consideration of this decree after the faction had reconciled the issue. The faction recommends that the National Deputy of Ukraine, Kovalevsk, be elected to the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Use, and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster. National MP Kovalevska insists on reviewing the draft decree number 1159-10. The request to the Supreme Council is to be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u7	Please, do you have a question for the reporter? None. Then I put this proposal to the vote. Unit 1159-10. Please, there's a vote. [[10:11:03]] For 231 Decision taken. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u8	Project number 3099. The committee at the meeting considered it, submitted by the People’s Chamber of Acids, in accordance with the requirements of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. The draft decree proposes to elect the Ukrainian national deputy, Kichiaty Jury Stanislavovic, a member of the Party of the Regions' MPs, a member of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government. The calculated quota for the Party of Regions’ MPs at the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule is exceeded. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council not to support the draft decision, but the national deputy Kichaty insists on considering the project. In addition, just from the committee of the national deputy Kovalevsky, another committee was elected. In this regard, we ask the Supreme Council to be determined as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u9	Is there a question? Please, Kiselov is asking questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u10	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Alexander Aleksandrovich, I ask, asking for a vote, to consider that we are asking to support the transition, more loyally, the involvement of Kichito, who today is no longer a member of any committee, to the Committee on Local Self-Government Issues instead of the one that just emerged from that committee of Kovalevsky. And I ask my colleagues to support this, this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u11	Did I get that, or did all the deputies get it? Let's take a look at the vote. I'm voting on draft Decree 3099, please, on the election of Yuri Kikatov. [[10:13:09]] For 247 Decision taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u12	Order 3110. The committee reviewed the statements made by Ukrainian National Deputies of the Richtirier Raisa Vasilovna, Remaruka Alexandra Ivanovich, members of the Party of the Regions, regarding the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine as a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, releasing her from the duties of a member of the Committee on Budget Affairs and the election of the National Deputy of Ukraine to the Committee on Budget Affairs by releasing him from the duties of a member of the Committee on Finance and Banking. Taking into account that the number of Ukrainian national deputies from the Party's MPs of the designated committees has not changed, the Committee decided to support the statements made by the Ukrainian national deputies Bogatirov and Rimaruk and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u13	Is there a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Then I'm voting on draft regulation 3110. [[10:14:28]] For 309 Decision taken. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u14	Order 3111. At the meeting, the committee considered the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sokol Andrija Alexiyovich, a member of the Party of the Regions’ MP for election as a member of the Committee on Legal Policy. The estimated quota of up to 20 members of the Party of the Regions is 7.1. And the Committee on Legal Policy is working with this faction of four Ukrainian national deputies, i.e. the quota is not used. The committee decided to support the statement made by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Sokol, and to submit an appropriate draft decision for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u15	Is there a question for Alexander Sergiyovich? None. I'm voting on draft resolution 3111 on the election of Andrew Sokol as a member of the Legal Policy Committee. There's a vote coming. [[10:15:38]] For 323 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the agenda is being considered. Excuse me, there's a statement by the leaders of two factions: the Socialists and the Party of the Regions about a break or a word for three minutes. I think it's better not to call it a break. If so, Jaroslav Petrovich Mendus has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u16	Dear colleagues! The faction of Ukraine's Socialist Party in the Supreme Council of Ukraine has to be evaluated by the Minister of Defence of Ukraine Anatolia Grizzenka at the head of the Supreme Council. On January 25, this year, a Ham minister accused the head of Parliament of lobbying someone’s interests, of transferring property to the Odessa Institute of Land Army, one of the oldest military units in Ukraine. The Minister of Defense, for his undeniable reasons, has eliminated him, and now he has a strong desire to implement the building and property of this institution. During a visit to Odessa Alexander Moroz, and meetings with the district and city authorities, he was officially asked to support the initiative of city and district deputies to transfer assets to the developed Institute of Land Forces in the Ministry of Education of Ukraine. In response to the request of the city and district authorities, the Head of Parliament asked the Prime Minister of Ukraine to consider the matter at the meeting of the Government and to take a decision in accordance with the applicable legislation. Surprisingly, the regular, routine question of government, defense minister Gritsenko suddenly decided to turn into a scandal. Without a doubt, the minister dropped any groundless charges against Alexander Moroz. How can we explain the inadequate response of Minister Grizzenk? Does he recognize the consequences of his actions and comments as an officer? At a government meeting, the prime minister of Ukraine made a perfectly fair observation to the minister. However, instead of admitting his obvious guilt for irresponsible speech, the minister suddenly invented another fairy tale, claiming that it was as if the Parliamentary head Alexander Moroz had made some offensive accusations against him. But he did not bring any evidence to support his words. The Minister of Defense likes to emphasize that he has received military education in the U.S. military unit. So if the U.S. officers and the secretary of defense were to start bringing a similar nonsense to a senior management address or spreading rumors of undermining the security of their country for two years in charge of strengthening it. It would likely result not only in his resignation but also in a medical examination. What honor an officer may be told by a man who lacks the courage to answer for his words. If Grishenko has evidence of illegal lobbying by officials of his interests, he is obliged not to speak but to transfer all material to the competent authorities. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine requires the Minister of Defense to apologize for slandering the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u17	Thank you. The order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call is being considered. A replica? That's not how nobody touched you. Please give the Turk's word for a minute on the grounds of the vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u18	Dear colleagues, it's the motive. Alexandre Alexandrovich, many of the faction deputies were not there, and I also understand that there is too much pressure to vote on the question of the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I can see so much that you and Adam Ivanovich are just tired of working together. And yet we insist, as has been the case, that at the beginning of the session, in the first week, the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council be held. Today we're going to have a secret ballot, and so that we don't have to do a secret ballot twice, we ask very much that we don't have any difficulty putting this question to a vote right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u19	Alexander Valentinovich, first of all, we're not tired, I'm telling you, so be calm about this. And since I have now announced the question, we will consider it, and after that, I will put your proposal to the vote, and I will support it. Thus, the issue of the order of the day of the third session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is being considered. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Conciliation Board, this question was discussed according to the procedure followed by how to consider it here in the session room. And there was a suggestion that you would bring your thoughts into the list of issues that are relevant to the agenda by Thursday, and you could look at them today. You are offered a day’s schedule that consists of several chapters. First, questions are being prepared for consideration in plenary sessions. These are the questions that were discussed at the last session and later, but they are fully prepared, discussed on the committees, are the conclusions, the proposals of the committees. There are a list of questions that are to be prepared and processed for the session. They also had no doubts about this issue in the Conciliation Board members, no discussion, no MPs familiar with these documents, but that these are all proposals from the relevant committees and they are agreed upon by the deputies, representatives of various political factions. There are a list of drafts in Appendix I that, according to a preliminary review by the Supreme Council Committee, are not recommended for inclusion in the agenda of the third session and supported by the Conciliation Council of the Deputies. This list is also in your hands and a list of unexamined and unrepentant bills that have not been identified in the agenda of the day-to-day third session of the Supreme Council Committee. I would have had such a suggestion that we would now vote on the basis and in general the first two chapters, which would raise no doubt about it, wait until we can look at the additions separately and go back to this issue, to report them if we agree to this Parliament. So first, I'd like to hear your opinion on my proposal. I'll do it again. The first two chapters of the agenda do not raise any doubts in the Conciliation Board. Yeah, yeah. And the committees have yet to be identified separately. You have this help, in the second appendix. This is a bill that the Supreme Council committees propose to include in the agenda. It is the Constitutional Court, the political parties, the unification of citizens, and so on. This document is on your hands, too. And then my proposal, wait a minute, and then my proposal is that if we get a base, actually, what we're going to do is we're going to have a selection of questions for monthly and monthly work planning, you're going to look at the apps on the committees separately, and you're going to have some doubts. And we're going to go back separately to that question, and then we're going to include them later, say, next week, next sessional week into the order of the day. If, uh, let's take another head of the Regulatory Committee, let's go to the rostrum. Say it. Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich. Wait, wait, wait. In this regard, how is the committee defined? Are you in charge of Matthew's? Please. You don't? Can I ask you a question? Sign up for questions. Please, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u20	Vladimir Kureny, Yulia Block Timoshenko I ask you to give the word to Alexander Turkinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u21	The Turks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! We have experience with you, which has already been worked on by more than one parliament. What is not included in the agenda is not included at all. And that's why, Alexander Alexanderovich, I think all the laws that don't conflict with the Constitution that don't contradict common sense should be included in the agenda. And let the Supreme Council be determined by them. In particular, we're talking about the 2079 law about children born in captivity. The committee has supported, a positive decision, something we don't include. Law 2487, 2856 on farm farming. We don't understand, Alexander Alexanderovich, why they're not involved. At the same time, the laws that apply to the Central Electoral Commission are incorporated into the agenda, and the employees of the Central Electoral Commission are released. It's the President's prerogative.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u23	Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u24	Aleksandar Aleksieevich, I don't understand why Bill 2640 is the draft Supreme Council's decision to set up a gas market investigation commission into a section that has not been defined by the committees. At the last session, he had already been on the agenda, and he had just been moved. There can be no such thing as a non-definition committee. The faction on the agenda raised the issue. For this reason, I ask for Bill 2640 to be transferred from the appendix to the main part of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u25	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u26	I ask you to pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u27	Thank you. Matthew, the Communist faction. Alexander Aleksandrovitch, first of all, I would like to support the proposal made by Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko. Indeed, the faction’s leadership brought it to your attention. And about the main order of the day or the draft order of the day of our session. We support the vote now on the basic position that we have set out on the draft agenda that you have put forward, without any other additions, including just one of them, which is now in the handout, the bills that the committees propose to include in the agenda of the day-to-day third session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u28	Okay. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Oleg Laszko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u30	Please, Baby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u31	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Thank you, Mikola Volodymyrovich. Dear Alexander Alexander, I have a few questions for you. When we opened the session, we agreed that this week we would consider draft laws on lowering the cost of residential services, draft legislation on amending the budget to increase the minimum wage and the minimum cost of living. Why are these bills not available this week?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u32	Name the number of these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u33	That's the first one. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u34	Wait. Name the number of these laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u35	I don't remember the numbers. I know what we agreed on and what you promised.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u36	I'm telling you again, name the numbers of these laws so they can be voted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u37	Let me get this straight and call it. And the last. In addition to the draft ruling that we are discussing, it is stated that the draft Law on the Temporary Order of Financing of the Judiciary is not recommended for inclusion. It's not true. This is the decision of the Legal Policy Committee that this bill is recommended for adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u38	Name the number. Give him your word, five more seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u39	Bill No. 0902. The committee recommended the inclusion. In addition, it means something that is not recommended.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u40	Davemuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u41	Please give the floor to your colleague, Viacheslav Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u42	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u43	Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. The Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, neither in the first nor in the second appendix, do not have the nine basic bills that have been passed by the deputies of our faction. For the sake of the economy of time, I'm just going to read their numbers, and we insist on putting these bills into the agenda of the day. These are the following bills: 2816, 2804, 2722, 2523, 2530, 2531, 1110, 2717, 2572 and 2198. These are all important draft amendments to laws or draft regulations. And we insist on getting into the agenda.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u44	Give me that list. Sergey Volodymyrovich, make suggestions. After the first vote, we shall vote. Thank you for asking or for your suggestions. There is a need to identify such issues. Alexander Valentinovich said that it wasn't included then, and it wasn't considered, and it wasn't included. But what is involved is not all that is being considered. It seems to me that we have to assume that the final decision will be taken by Parliament. I think so. I'll put it separately for the 2079 vote, as he said. I think he's right, because we've discussed him many times about inclusion. He has no objection. Now with regard to the proposals of Mikola Kravchenka. Apparently, it was a technical mistake that he fell into chapter two. We're going to vote 2640 with the first part. Now, here's the offer. He is absolutely right about three laws. We agreed both on the Conciliation Council, and here, in the hall, that they would be included. He'll give me a list of the numbers and we'll put them on the vote. And Kirilenko's offer is nine separate projects. We too, Adam Ivanovich will call them, and we will vote. Likewise, Sergey Volodymyrovich, I will put to the vote first on the basis of the project, and then we will put forward the proposals you have.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u45	Well, 2079? Yeah, yeah. Please be careful. I'm asking for your attention. I am now putting the vote on the ground, and I would like to stress once again, on the basis of the proposal for inclusion in the agenda of the day issues provided for in chapter one and chapter two of this document. It also includes 2079 and 2640, and the three bills that we had foreseen on Tuesday, starting the sessions at the proposal of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Yes, 3068 and others. Three projects go there: 0902 and what else? But it's not out of voice. We voted on it on Tuesday. Wait a minute. And the third project we considered on Tuesday. 3069. No, no, it's three, the ones that we voted on the offer of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko on Tuesday, agreed that they would be included. I repeat: on the basis of the bills I have called plus the first chapter and the second chapter of the document that you have in your hands, and the first chapter of the appendix that is agreed upon by the committee. Understand? Wait, I'll forget what I said. Let's vote on the basis. I'll put it to a vote on the basis. Please. When we consider it, let us define the position. [[10:36:36]] For 317 Based on the base. Now the proposals are separate. Please. Now, a minute. With motive? Please, Peter Cibenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u46	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Alexander Alexandrovich, from the very beginning you made the right proposal to vote on the two main chapters, and then you started adding from the voice. In particular, Bill 2079. After him yesterday, the committee decided to exclude him from the agenda. Because, first of all, it's proposed to rehabilitate people who weren't convicted. They were not tried. And the second. This category of people, the questions about them are solved. Today, I have the official assistance of the Pension Fund, which lists 20,000 people in Ukraine who receive pensions as rehabilitated and 80 as family members of the rehabilitated. So this problem is settled. Who and why do I have to pull this off, I don't understand. And we vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u47	I think let's not discuss the content of the bill. And in this case, the issue of inclusion or non-inclusion is solved. On the basis of the vote, I honestly didn't know the nature and position of the committee. But if you insist on excluding it, I'll put it to a vote. I want to tell you. I've already told Alexander Valentinovich about this. When we consider the matter essentially, then all of this argument will be taken into account, and then the session will have the right solution. But please, this project's author here is Victor Terrence, he's going to take the floor, and then we're going to define this question. Please. Terrence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u48	Yes, Victor Terrence, "The Timoshenko Yulia Block". Dear Alexander Alexander, the First Committee of Human Rights, is the First Committee. The committee's decision, all members of the committee, including the Grac Committee, the Communist Party member, the faction, he was in favour. We have submitted a motion from a committee that unanimously supported this bill for submission to the Supreme Council with a request that it be included in the agenda. So Zybenko's information, it doesn't fit the reality of the first committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u49	Consider, too, this information. Once again, I repeat what I had just said the day before. When we look at the matter essentially, we're going to define it. Well, there's one committee's opinion that's different. Let us vote then, when we consider the matter, and then all the details of the matter will be clarified. Come on, but there was an offer, I have to put it to a vote, to remove it from the agenda of the day. I'll put it to a vote. [[10:40:05]] For 236 So I have no right not to bet, because. I'm explaining to you, Victor, I have no right not to. Sergey Shevchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u50	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Alexandre Alexandrovich, on the first day of the session you argued that our work plan for this session should be discussed on the committees. And late last night, the European Integration Committee considered this issue and decided on the purpose of including two draft Supreme Council rulings. I'll read these regulations and numbers. This is Number 3112 on the Supreme Council's application to open negotiations between Ukraine and the EU on the conclusion of a new core treaty. And number 2878 on the Supreme Council Regulation on the Establishment of a Joint Parliamentary-Governmental Commission on the Integration of Ukraine into the European Union. The two decrees are made by representatives of four factions in Parliament. Please include them in the agenda of the day session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u51	I would like to support Sergey Shevchuk's proposal to include in the agenda the main part of this draft decision. I'll bet you a vote. [[10:41:46]] For 374 It's on. Now with the changes that we've voted on, let's vote this part as a whole as a Supreme Council ruling, and then. I'll bet you a vote, and then we'll consider your question. [[10:42:16]] For three hundred List of bills proposed for the inclusion of the order of the day of the third session of the fifth call. Here we go. You gave this project away, Anatoly.? They didn't. Then this is what we're talking about. Project 2804 is a draft Procurator-General's Regulation on the State of Criminal Investigation of the Obstacle to Legal and Professional Activities of Journalists. National MPs are initiating. Catherinechuk is on. Project 3019 is a draft law amending the Local Self-Government Act. [[on the terms of the respective authorities of local self-government]] National MPs initiating: Bogesheva, Klukkowski, Zapuk. Draft Law 2305, draft law approving the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Initiators of the National Deputy Catherinechuk. Although the Constitution does not provide for this, I refer to Catherineczuk. 2372 - Draft Decision on Amendments to the Appendix to the Supreme Council Order “On the List and Quantity of Objects of Knowledge of the Committees 5 - Calling the Initiators of the National Deputies: Moses, Shevchenko, Sinchenko. 2432 - draft decrees. They offer only marked ones, there are not many. Draft decision to hear Henprocuror's report on the state of criminal investigation concerning the death of Ukrainian hero Crnovol and his assistant Paulov. Next. Draft decree for the establishment of a temporary special commission on the administration of taxes on added value: Catherineczuk, Royal, Voropeyev. Draft decree for hearing the report of the Minister of Fuel and Energy, initiating the introduction of the National MP: Koval, Tanjuk, Bespalij. Draft decision to hear the report of Vice-Prime Minister Rybak, initiators: Kuibida, Bespali, Lanovy. The draft law on the prevention of conditions and diseases caused by any deficiency, initiators: Grigorovitch, Selchenko, Bachevi. Draft decree on the results of the Gristenk Defense Minister's report. A familiar subject, and we are obliged to report it to China. Draft law on the principles of foreign policy, initiators of introduction: National MP Udovenko. And a draft law amending the Political Parties Act in Ukraine on the organization of party registration and the control of their activities. I repeat, please. Once again, information from two Attorney Generals, then the decision to form a provisional commission of inquiry for taxes on added value and just hearing the reports of two ministers, that is, what I have just read. I repeat: 2804, 2722, 2523, 2530, 2531, 1110, 2717, 2572 and 2198. I'm asking you to support this proposal and I'm putting it to the vote for inclusion in the order of the day. I beg of you, we must vote and support. [[10:46:30.]] For 197 We'll be back to that question in the next plenary week. A proposal is made by the Justice Committee to consider the specificities of the order of financing and the provision of justice. I'm voting on this proposal. [[10:47:21]] For 305 What the committees offered was the same. Thus, we have considered the issues of those who are scheduled for the day in the part that raises no doubt. And the question from the second and third chapters of the main document and the second part of the appendix will be considered in the next sessional week after the committees are still defined for them and the factions are determined for the vote. I am convinced that on most issues we will make positive decisions. I am putting to the vote once again the question of including in the agenda today the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. [[10:49:01]] For 342 Decision taken. Thank you. That's why I'm asking you to consider the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. We have a proposal to the Conciliation Council for the leadership of the Supreme Council for a single candidature by Tomenko Mikoli Volodymirovich. I invite him to the rostrum, please. He can do a software report, or he can just answer your questions if you want to talk to him. Huh? Let's just ask questions. Then I ask you to sign up for a question at Mikola Volodymyrovich. Yes. In practice and in the last 10 minutes, we have. Tarasov, please, follow the Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u52	Vladimir Tarasov, Socfraccio. Dear Mr. Tomenko, would you please tell me, at the post of Vice Speaker of Parliament, are you going to give more attention to working with young people or not? This is very important because I know how much effort you are making on this subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u53	We have the powers of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council as defined by the Rules of Procedure in the part where the Vice-Speaker engages in organizational activities, deals with organizational work and interaction with the judiciary. However, the Rules provide that the final list of vice-speaker duties shall be determined by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When I'm elected Vice-Speaker, I'm going to urge the leadership of the Supreme Council to remain the curator of this particular direction that I'm leading today on the committee, because there's a lot of work that concerns youth issues and there's a lot of work that concerns physical culture and sports. For the first time in Ukraine, we have a totally normal business relationship between the Ministry of Family Affairs and youth, and sports, the National Olympic Committee, and our committee. So I think I can find a mechanism to keep all the bills that we've been drafting going on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u54	Just, Mikola Volodymyrovich, get used to the constitutional name of the post, the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. There's no vice-speaker in the Constitution. Please, Chicken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u55	Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, we know you very well and respect you, and we wish you success if you are chosen, and I hope you will. At work on the Committee on Family, Sports, and Tourism, and on youth policy, we worked together hard and worked hard and did very well in that direction. Please tell me, if you are chosen, will you not leave these directions and support the social sphere and the humanitarian sphere that our committee is dealing with? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u56	If I'm elected, as they say in the people, to the position of Vice-Speaker, and as stated in the Constitution, to the position of Vice-President of the Supreme Council, I commit myself to the subjects, problems and actions that our committee is leading today and I, as deputy director of the BUT, and this is mostly a really humanitarian and social component, to bring it to an end. And I think we're going to find a mechanism of cooperation with the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports and Tourism and in such a way that those works and projects are most actively implemented in the session hall. I think that the position of Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council does not prevent you from being the author of the law, the co-reporter or the reporting officer by law. So I think that the productive work that in our committee, the co-conspirators, by the way, with them committees, is going to continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u57	Kirilchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u58	Thank you. Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I'm sure you can handle the assigned area of work if you're entrusted with it, and I'm sure people will support it, knowing you, but I'm interested in one such detail. The responsibilities of influence or committee control are usually shared between the Head and the deputies. I'm going to say that this area of work is actually limping on both legs. Do you know which committees you will care for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u59	I have already said that, according to our Rules, this issue is regulated by the proper authority of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and I will obviously propose both to the Head of the Supreme Council, and to the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council to pursue the directions that I have also taken in the Supreme Council of the previous convening, and in the Supreme Council of the present convening, this is also the humanitarian sphere, this is also the problem of motherhood, childhood, physical culture and sport, tourism, media. But once again I say that this is obviously the subject of a conversation and a corresponding decision that will emerge after the vote if it is a positive one. At the same time, based on those discussions and agreements and the position of our faction, now the deputy head of the Supreme Council must have another task, which should ensure that the opposition is actively included in the decision-making process. And I hope that in the end we will adopt the Opposition Act, and this is one of the tasks and vice-speaker's active involvement in the work of opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u60	Well, that question was more before me than it was before Mikola Volodymyrovich. Eugene Ivanovich, everything will be fine. Don't worry. Sivuliski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u61	Thank you. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, there's no secret that you're taking this position as a representative of the opposition. I would like to hear your opinion on the prospects for a bill that you personally worked on. This is about the law of opposition. More detail, please, as you can see the prospects for the drafting and passing of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u62	I'm sure we can use the practice that we used in preparing the bill for our first reading. We had a working group set up by the Chief of the Supreme Council, where virtually all the factions were represented, had a serious three-month discussion and passed a harmonized bill. I'm aware that there are obviously a few norms in this bill, as approved in the first reading, that are not perceived by one faction or another. This means that the bill has yet to be worked on, but I am equally aware that such a law needs to be adopted. And by the way, in the context of the opposition having legal institutionally presupposed mechanisms to express their point of view. The law has several novelties that I think after we approve, we'll be proud of everyone we've done. This is the right of a co-report from the opposition. It's the right to form the order of the day once a session. Once a plenary meeting and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u63	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u64	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Mikolo Volodymyrovich, I have a very specific question for you. Please tell us what efforts you will make to stop being the lobbying office of the clans in case of being elected deputy to the Supreme Council, so that Parliament will finally start working for the electors who elected us here? Look at the drafts we're looking at! The vast majority of them are lobby bills that add funds to one's pockets. When does Parliament finally begin to consider the laws that people expect of us? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u65	I think it's not just this convening of Parliament -- it's a problem of Ukrainian politics in general. And when we were looking at a block of corruption laws here, I was doing the same thing in this rostrum and I was talking about that we should, on a legislative level, write clearly enough what's called lobbyism and corruption in the world. It is clear where the limit is, for example, when people who are in family relationships or who are involved in a particular business, whether they have or are not entitled, for example, to hold positions or to propose a particular bill. We finally have to describe what a conflict of interest is, because, I completely agree with you, in the Supreme Council, we often face a conflict of interest when, for example, a mediocre or real owner of a particular business reports a bill on benefits, preference for their business. So, of course, this is a serious problem, and it needs to be solved. And the second problem, of course, is another procedure, a more democratic one -- the formation of party lists -- to which we need to go back, in order to really have the Parliament of the Ukrainian people, not the financial and political groups.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u66	Well, since this is where the stone and my city are thrown, I mean. Oleg, you're asking the right question. Only if you doubt the nature of the bill, do not vote because you personally voted on 78 percent of the bills in the last session. Count it and then say what you're voting for, what you're not. It's good to throw away such slogans. Please, Kozub.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u67	Cosub conveys the word to Sukhhom.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u68	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u69	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, “Regions of Ukraine”. Dear Mikola Volodymyrovich, I think by electing you to be the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council once again shows to the world that the processes of democratization in the Ukrainian society have become irreversible because the opposition representative rightly takes this place in the governing bodies of the Supreme Council. I have a question to ask you as a professional. Please tell us what measures, you think, must be taken to ensure that new, higher-quality media outlets are acquired in the performance of their communication function - the bond of people and power, because we see very often both the ordering articles and the one-sided lighting, and these curvatures of some kind of comment, and the spreading of passions. Will you continue to maintain these aspects of communication, not media guidelines, but the relationship of power — the higher legislature and the media? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u70	I think that Parliament should regain the status of an institution that not only determines the principles of media activity, what we did with you, and especially yesterday. I think we adopted a very progressive European bill yesterday on our first reading. Hopefully we'll accept it in general, where finally the newspaper readers, the radio audiences will know who owns the real media, who has the responsibility, who finances it, and so on. But I think we've forgotten the control function of Parliament. And I am absolutely convinced that in Parliament we must carry out our constitutional responsibilities in part: We haven't heard a report from the National Council on Television and Radio in a year of activity yet, we'd probably have to listen to the management of the National Television Company, which is funded by the budget, what it does there, how it spends its budget, whether there's education, culture, education. That is, Parliament must exercise its control function. I will initiate consideration of such issues so that these problems will be heard in the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u71	Thank you, sit down, please. Deputies! There's two choices. You can express yourself now, if you want to, and you can express your attitude toward Mikaly Volodimirovich by ballots. I'd suggest a second option -- it's more reliable and accurate and final. So I'm just warning you that this is going to happen after 12 o'clock, after the Counting Commission tells us their opinions, their proposals about the organization of the vote, and we're going to be there. Together, we will need to vote in secret and express our attitude toward the candidate of the Commissioner for Human Rights. I'm asking this question. And this is what Leonid Ivanovich is reporting on. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u72	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. Today we are looking at a very responsible and without exaggeration a question that is resonant to society. Only for the third time in the new history of Ukraine will the Supreme Council choose the Authorized Person of human rights. In this brief period of existence, since 1998, this institution has taken place, gained authority in society, and has become known far beyond our borders. In a difficult period for the state and citizens, the so-called transitional period, the period of capital accumulation, the impoverishment of a large part of the population, the oppression of citizens' rights, the work of the Authorized Institute became the last institution where people seek the truth. Recognizing the responsibility placed on our committee in preparing for the election of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, we have taken a very balanced approach to the consideration of the proposed candidates. The issue of the activities of the Human Rights Council of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is referred to as the subject of our commission. In accordance with article 6 of the Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights and 204 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, our committee is tasked with bringing to the Supreme Council the conclusions on candidates for the position of Commissioner, their compliance with the requirements provided for in the Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights and the absence of reasons to prevent them from taking office. I inform you that in the 20-day term for the appointment of the Commissioner for Human Rights, which began on 18 November last year after the suspension of Nina Ivanovna Karpachev's activities for the term of office of Commissioner for Human Rights, no proposal was made in accordance with current legislation. Thus, on December 8, a new deadline for nominations began. On December 13, 2006, the Committee received the invitation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to elect the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights of Karpacho Nina Ivanovna. On 14 December 2006, at its meeting, the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations considered Karpachov Nina Ivanovna's candidacy, proposed to serve as the Authorised Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights, and agreed that her candidature met the requirements laid down in the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights and that there were no reasons to prevent her from taking office. The members of the committee also noted the active work of Carpathian Nina Ivanovna in the office of the Authorized Council of Ukraine for Human Rights from 1998 to 2006 and her great organizational skills in the creation and establishment of an authorized institution. On December 15, 2006, the committee received a proposal from 121 people's deputies to elect the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights of Zaharov Eugenia Yuhimovic. I would like to point out that three Ukrainian National Deputies later filed applications to withdraw their signatures to support the candidature of Zaharov Eugenia Yuhimovic. They're given to you in materials. On December 20, at its meeting, our committee considered the nomination of Zakharov Evgeni Yuhimovich, proposed for the position of Commissioner for Human Rights, and agreed that his candidacy met the requirements of the Ukrainian Law on the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights and that there were no reasons to prevent him from taking office. I would also like to point out that the committee had concerns, appeals from individual institutions, public organizations and individuals regarding the nomination of the Commissioner for Human Rights, but they had not been drafted according to the requirements of legislation. Article 6 of the Law on the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights clearly states that the proposal for a candidate for the post of Commissioner shall be submitted by the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or by at least one fourth of the national deputies of Ukraine from the constitutional composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Two such nominations were submitted: Nina Ivanovna Karpachova and Eugene Jephimovich Zakharov On December 28, last year, the deadline for nominations was up, and I would like to point out that dozens of appeals were received from working groups, public organizations and individual citizens to support the two candidates. This convincing evidence shows that society is indifferent to the process of electing the Commissioner for Human Rights and wants his will to be heard. And so today we have to do everything we can to ensure that the election of the Commissioner takes place, and the citizens of Ukraine have received a protector of their affairs. Our committee has done its important and responsible work, now word for you, honourable national deputies and the Counting Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u73	Is there a question for Leonid Ivanovich? None. Do you have a question? Please, two questions I can see. Sign up. Before that, please, Vladimir Mikolaiovich, Alexander Valentinovich, Oleg Grigorovich, ask that people turn to the reporter. I'm asking for your attention! Alexander Valentinovich, ask that people turn to the reporter. Where's that supposed to go? I beg you, Your Honor, there are 15 to 17 people on the phone at the same time. If there's any need, come out and talk on the phone, I don't need to hear what he's saying on the phone is jamming his meetings, but he's yelling so I can hear what he's talking about. Attention! Antemuk, please. Here are the questions, five to six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u74	Please pass the word to Mankovsky Grigori Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u75	Mankovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u76	Dear Leonid Ivanovich! A few years ago, your colleague Vladimir Mishur presented from this rostrum a detailed report on the financing of domestic non-governmental organizations for foreign guarantors. The main conclusion of the report, that these organizations were in fact the agents of foreign interests, was fully confirmed during the Orange Revolution. It's clear who's paying for the money who's ordering the music. In this connection, as you have estimated in recent months the onslaught campaign, a concerning grants, grants and investigations by my colleague, Mishura Valerija Dmitryevich, is well known that, long ago on the public body of Ukraine, there are not just grants, grants, grants, in fact, in this case an intervention mechanism in the internal affairs of Ukraine, influences the social political, military and political processes of all processes, in fact, agents that pay for the western part of Ukraine. [[no sound]] Therefore, I would very much like to ask those who intend to seek public office, including the post of Commissioner, to be further away from these grenade eaters. And for one thing, I'd like to ask the grenade eaters: not all of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u77	The miller. I'm asking you not to shout.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u78	Deputy Melnik Stanislav. I want to give the word to Eutukhov Vasil Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u79	Vasil Ivanovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u80	Dear Leonide Ivanovich, I have a question about what was first and I want to direct it that way. One sign of the sovereignty of any state is the right to form its own organs of state power and administration according to national legislation. At the same time, the press has published the PARE Reporters, which are actually instructions to our speaker, who is chosen to serve as Commissioner. Yesterday, the same motives appeared in the telephone conversation of PARE’s leadership with a speaker whose printing was distributed to members of the public. I think the speaker treated himself right, and the question to you. Is it not all by interfering with these claims in the internal affairs of Ukraine, Ukraine’s independent, independent Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u81	I think that those you have called, representing the institutions of Europe, are the same grantoedes only outside our country. And it is quite clear that I am in solidarity with you that all that was allowed: both to speak in the press and in the letters and in the calls of Alexander Alexandrovich is nothing more than interference in our internal affairs, pressure on us and unacceptable to any norm, including international law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u82	Landik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u83	The word Zibenko is given.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u84	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u85	Thank you. Dear Leonide Ivanovich, one of the central qualities of the Commissioner for Human Rights must be professional training, legal education. As far as I know, of the two candidates for this post, only one candidate has a legal education and is a candidate for legal science. So I'd like to ask that question. Do you not consider it necessary to introduce into the Human Rights Commissioner’s Law a standard that those problems should be cared for by a person who should do so professionally rather than at amateur level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u86	I think, in fact, you're right and, in fact, we have to count as treatment, attention and observation, and perhaps the law should make such changes. As for the specific situation, as I understand it, you will vote for who has a lawyer's education.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u87	Leonid Ivanovich, please sit down. Thank you for the thorough report and the written answers. The word has a candidate for the position of Human Rights Commissioner, Zechariah Eugen Yuliyovich. I'm inviting him to the rostrum. Eugene Yuhimovich. While he's going, I'll say he's a decent man, experience has a job and a rights-based one, including a candidate for science, a mathematician and, in general, a decent person. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u88	Thank you. Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! When I was offered to take part in a campaign on my appointment on November 17th, I couldn't help but agree, because my refusal would actually mean, well, I'd compare it to a football player saying, “I like to play football, but I won’t shoot a ball at the door.” And I agreed, first of all, because I thought this was an opportunity to draw attention to human rights issues in Ukraine to the Ombudsman's Institute and in general to a broad public debate on these issues. At first I didn't think it was possible that I would be put up in Parliament and stand before you here. I want to say that I believe that I have been promoted, that 118 Ukrainian national deputies have heard the voice of the public, and I have been supported by 360 Ukrainian public organizations and 144 foreign organizations, and, in addition, by individual defenders known in the world, that means that the civil society in Ukraine is becoming stronger, stronger and can, may call attention to its interests, may demand that its parliament hear it, and actually do what it deems necessary. Your vote will show whether it is strong enough for civil society to hear more MPs than just a quarter. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to say something like that. I've really been a lawyer for a long time. Yeah, about 35 years. At first it was unconscious, then consciously. I worked in various positions, wrote intelligent programs, had complex mathematical problems, taught children mathematics and programming, published books. But gradually, this activity -- the very protection of human rights -- has pushed out all my other interests and work, and for 15 years, I have been professionally engaged only in this activity. I have to say that although this is quite difficult, a person in Ukraine is unprotected and unprotected, and it takes a very serious effort to improve the situation. I understand that very well and I have a solid reminor and reminor in this work. But, nevertheless, I have to say that over the past 35 years, I have not been tired and ready to take on the burden and responsibility if I am elected in this position. In my program, there are these, according to every thesis, there is a clear, clear plan of what to do and how to do to improve the protection of human rights in Ukraine. And if I'm elected, I think the main thing for this position today is to create a system of human rights protection. The systems don't exist today, they have to be created, and I understand clearly how to do this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u89	Thank you for your concise and persuasive reasoning. The question is to the challenger. Please sign up for questions. Ten minutes. Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u90	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Eugene Yuhimovich! I want to thank you very much for not really playing football, but you have been very brilliant and very good at protecting human rights for many years. And today, her God, in the interests of the rights of citizens all over Ukraine, you need to put this goal in the gates of the rights defender of Ukrainian citizens. Because we've had such a strange practice that it turns out that the protection of human rights is only the first ombudsman. I think if you were to succeed with the mechanisms that you have to do what you do, then obviously the first three volumes, until you're an Ombudsman, would be in exchange for these three volumes of your activity, such as, in fact, a public national defender, and the following volumes would look like a whole encyclopedia. I say this to the fact that there are very few things today and very few personalities that Ukraine can be proud of. I want to thank you both for your work so far, and for running for this high office.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u91	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u92	It's not a question, it's support. Is that what I'm saying? The truth is, Mikola Tomenko plays football, and he's a good man, but that's the details. Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u93	Dear candidate! During the press conference in Interfax, which was dedicated to your promotion, you literally stated about Nina Carpachov: “I would advise her not to come back because she is expected, as I am, in this position quite a lot of trouble. That's my question. What a nuisance you had in mind and whether this expression could be understood in such a way that, for the sake of your high office, you made an open threat to another candidate. If so, how appropriate is such conduct to human ethics and morals? And how does this correspond to the requirements of the Human Rights Commissioner for whom tolerance, respect for opponents, and, finally, a personal high standard of order are to be found?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u94	Thank you for asking. Well, I mean, you only took part of the phrase from that interview I gave, or yesterday or yesterday, I don't remember exactly. This interview has not yet been seen in print. I meant very specific things. If Nina Ivanovna Karpachov’s work in the first few years was not under public sector monitoring, I can personally say that I did not do it consciously because I thought that this institution should be established first, it should grow muscles, it should be influential and only then can it be criticized, it can be analyzed and so on. While he was still weak, he did not need to be criticized. Today, I believe that there is a rights-based community in Ukraine, and I think that this institution needs reform and completely necessary monitoring of the activities of the Authorized Human Rights Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u95	Carpuch. None. Tedeyev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u96	Alexander Alexandrovich, may I have the floor to convey Bondik to Valeriy Anatolievich?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u97	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u98	Dear Mr. Eugene, I'm afraid I don't know you personally. I have nothing for you. Look here, I'm here. But, yes, I've been following your publications and your, as it were, legal activities. You know, for me, a lawyer like you, well, in Ukraine, you don't know. There is a remarkable thing about Sakharov, mentioned by General Grigorenko, Mr. Viacheslav Cnerovil. But I read that you once spoke on the Harkowan City Council against language, as you said, the national minority, you were speaking from the Memorial. And the second is a brief question to you, as in the Bible: “His affairs are judged concerning him. ” Tell me about your actions, your more famous processes, because, unlike you, Nina Karpachov, I know about her affairs and the Supreme.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u99	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u100	Thank you for asking. I want to say that I objected to the fact that the Russian language in the Kharkiv region was not recognized in the official language because it was contrary to current legislation. That's what I've been saying, yes, I don't deny it, I don't deny it, I'm confirming this position now. That's exactly what I think. There is no need, I think, in my hometown of Kharkiv to make this language official. She's still in control, thank God. That's the first one. The other one. As for my activity and so on, you go online, you call it "Zakharov," and you will see hundreds of publications on these subjects. Read them, and then you will be able to determine whether it is a lawyer or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u101	Thank you. Karpuk, I missed you. I'm sorry. He's here. He wants to ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u102	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Eugene Zaharovich, unlike other representatives, we know your business. And just as we know the good things in the paws of the Central Election members that were before. You have a very specific program of action, in many new ones. At the same time, let's say these new tariffs are also a gross violation of human rights which. To solve problems. One more question. For example, you may give, as well as the judicial authorities, and in administrative practice, you often do not comply with these requirements. What steps you will take to ensure that everyone knows that there is an Ombudsman in Ukraine is a senior official and his demands are met in a legislative manner.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u103	Thank you for asking. I believe that the efforts of the executive to grant subsidies today are insufficient to protect the rights to an adequate standard of living for those who today simply cannot pay for new tariffs. I would think that the Supreme Council should adopt a law on granting subsidies that would describe a clear and clear procedure for obtaining them and that would remove the obstacles that exist today. Unfortunately, they do exist today, and the process of obtaining these subsidies is demeaning and demeaning. With regard to the role of the Ombudsman, I think it is necessary to improve information on human rights in general and on the work of the Ombudsman in particular. In order to do this, it is necessary to update the Ombudsman's website more frequently, so that there is a message in English -- eight thousand messages a day, you have to issue a newsletter regularly, every month as a minimum, you have to have a program on one of the national television channels with direct contact with the viewers. It would be very desirable to organize.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u104	Thank you. Then I'll talk to you separately. The author asks a question. He asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u105	Please give the floor to the well-known lawyer, Deputy Boris Bespalom.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u106	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u107	Thank you. I'm not exactly a lawyer. And the well-known defender is Eugene Yuhimovich Zakharov, whom I would like to thank very much for this activity, and especially for the release of the Kharkiv Law Society, which serves to preserve the memory of the rights movement, and generally at a very high level. And it's no coincidence that Mr. Eugene is very widely known, in fact, in the right-wing circles of both Ukraine and Europe and the world, which is easy to believe. And what's important is that it's not for education, it's for a diploma, it's for the soul, as well as for the Sakharov Academy, and General Grigorenko, and Mustafa Djemilov, who were really and are human rights defenders. And in terms of social organizations, I have another question. You're really being supported by a law-abiding society. Please tell us what particular forms of cooperation you will have with public organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u108	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u109	I think that a human rights system should be created in this way. We need to delegate the Ombudsman's authority to the regional level. So in every region, there's got to be an ombudsman assigned to work with regional law enforcement agencies. And that's where those organizations are strong, and that's where this cooperation is going to be effective, and that's where it's going to be better, it's going to be better to protect human rights. Moreover, this cooperation should be in preparation for the report. These representatives of the Commissioner in the region have to prepare regional annual reports on human rights in the region, and the national report to be issued by the Ombudsman annually will be the generalization of these regional reports. It should also be cooperation in informing about human rights, information and the general public, and government officials, it should be cooperation on specific issues. Such as the establishment of national preventive mechanisms for an optional protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and so on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u110	Okay. Eugene Yuhimovich, can I ask you a little question? I have no doubt about the usefulness of your legal activity and I respect you for such activity. You and I were at the President's round table, remember? Either I was wrong, or I had the impression that you would like to reverse political reform. If so, explain why. And if I'm wrong, tell me I made a mistake. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u111	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, you are not mistaken, on the President's round table on July 27, I really suggested that the reform of the Constitution be repealed, because I think this reform of the Constitution. Let me make a deal. This reform of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u112	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u113	This reform of the Constitution has led to the loss of country leadership to a large extent. The problems we see today are the result of this reform. On the other hand, on the other hand, on this issue today, it is also important to me that when amendments to the Constitution were adopted, the procedure for amending the Constitution was violated. This would have been decided by the Constitutional Court, but it did not work. Today, I want to point out that this problem has become more political, because I find it difficult to say that it would be better if this reform were to be repealed, or if this reform deepened, the Constitution would change further. But I don't think that's the way to leave the Constitution today, because the contradictions that it establishes, the creation of two centers of power in one branch of power, the executive, the extension of powers, it's bad.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u114	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Have a seat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u115	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u116	Thank you. Nina Ivanovna Karpachov has the word, please. I ask for both wings, and the other not to interfere with the holding of meetings. Please, don't worry. Hold on. Vasil Andriyovich. Have a seat. Nina Ivanovna, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u117	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, distinguished representatives of the media, dear fellow countrymen! Let me first of all thank the MPs for the previous call, which in 2003 in the face of intense pressure from the then Presidential Authority showed courage and patriotic statesmanship when they chose the Commissioner for Human Rights. It was then that the authoritarian regime of Ukraine took the first powerful step towards the parliamentary-presidential republic, because 280 votes against the will of the President and his administration at the time demonstrated the power of Ukrainian parliamentaryism, which, despite the various political vectors, was consolidating around the most painful problem of the society of our protection of human rights and freedoms. Why am I standing in front of you in this rostrum right now? When my term is almost two years before I'm finished, I'll give you an honest answer. When the division of our country deepened, when the threat of losing its sovereignty became real, when half-Ukraine suffered the humiliation of human dignity and mass persecution as a Ukrainian citizen I was not supposed to be, I had no right to stay away from these processes and therefore made a decision to go to the Supreme Council with the greatest political opposition force at that time and no harm to it. After all, the promotion of respect for human dignity, the construction of bridges between East and West were for me and remain the most important. During this time, Ukraine has indeed changed significantly. This collection that you have received today is a reflection of not a simple path that the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner has been doing. In addition to the annual reports, in addition to my special report on the extremely acute issue of today's labour migration rights, you now have a unique collection, over 700 pages of documentary confirmation of the struggle in Ukraine for human rights under authoritarian regimes and even today. I'd like to talk about something else. During this time, we worked with my team in a very transparent way. I was approached by over 750,000 people. And by the way, what I'm trying to say is that 2.5 thousand MPs and petitions, more than five of them called on the Supreme Council of Ukraine, came from the country's distinguished national deputies. As I considered these references, I never defended any political power. I stood up for the rights of the individual. I will point out that today the Ukrainian Institute of Human Rights Commissioner is integrated into the European and international institutions. Given that there have been radical changes in society and that the decision-making centre has moved to Parliament, I have made a conscious decision to go through the transition procedure. Because in order to remove all allegations of my right to lead this important body under new conditions. If I get your trust today, honourable national MPs, I will concentrate my efforts during the new cadence on such priorities: I will contribute as much as possible to bringing government power closer to human beings. Because it's not clear from the old, nor from the new authorities, it never happened -- it's my strategic goal. It's different. I believe that because of the capacity of the Ukrainian Ombudsman Institute, it is necessary to strengthen the protection of the rights of the individual. This is primarily due to improvements in Ukrainian legislation. In that sense, I'm counting on your support. Next. The extension of the powers of the Ombudsman is primarily needed to strengthen the protection of our fellow countrymen in such painful problems as poverty, land relations, the return of savings, the elimination of torture, the protection of the rights of one and a half million residents of residential homes, the fair settlement of tariff prices, the housing and utility services of the population, which I have recently reported to the Prime Minister of Ukraine. Special concern is the protection of the rights of the child, the promotion of parity democracy, particularly the participation of women in decision-making. And certainly the protection of the rights of migrant workers. I'm counting on your support, and I want to thank the Head of the Supreme Council for putting forward my candidacy, and I want to thank the millions of fellow countrymen who are united in public organizations, in trade unions, in labor groups, in the national parliaments, in MPs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u118	Let me finish. Are You Done?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u119	No, it's not. I would like to thank the millions of Ukrainian compatriots who are united in public organizations, trade unions, labor groups, Ukrainian national deputies, local council deputies, and international organizations who directly supported my candidacy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u120	Thank you. Ten minutes to ask. Please sign up. Galunenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u121	Please pass the word Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u122	Please, Yuri Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u123	Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Nina Ivanovno, first of all, would like to show you my respect, because all of Ukraine knows that you are not only a principled but also a consistent human rights fighter in Ukraine. It was with your direct involvement that the Human Rights Commissioner’s Institute was in formation. You were the first person to go to officials who took their power as private property. We have repeatedly discussed with you in correctional institutions how you have worked with tens and thousands of people to help them. Please tell me, as you can see, already taking into account the legislative activity of improving the development of the Institute of Commissioners. How can the Supreme Council help you? And how can you do that?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u124	Thank you for your question and for your kind words. Ladies and gentlemen, we have indeed taken a very serious and responsible step with you, in view of Ukrainian parliamentaryism in the person of the nationals in 1998. Even though we have been accused that Ukraine is not yet ready to create one outside the judicial body that is the Authorized Authority of human rights and is not yet known to be ready, some still think we are probably a "banana republic". We created this organ with you, and I thank you for that. But today I can testify from my own practical experience in this office for eight years. Unfortunately, the Human Rights Commissioner Act does not give the Commissioner full powers today, especially under the new conditions of the parliamentary-presidential republic, to adequately defend the rights of our citizens. Indeed, the Ombudsman is a subsidiary body, that is, an auxiliary body. He is not acting in his own right; he is acting in cooperation with other authorities that are called upon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u125	Nina Ivanovna, please give a brief explanation, for this is not provided for in the Rules. Baranowski asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u126	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Nina Ivanovna, I would like to thank you for considering the many numerous statements that I have addressed to you and I have addressed as a national deputy, from the people of the Plain region and the Žitomir region, and they thank you for their consideration. We understand, and people understand that everything is not up to you, because there must still be a clear and judicial branch of power here, and already the executive and the legislative branch. At the same time, I would like to ask you this question. Tell me, please, as you can see, after all, I've continued with the previous author of the question, how do you see developments in your entire system? The thing is, the people of Kiev are very far away. Is it time to open up an appropriate branch office in each district center, perhaps even in large cities? Is it not time to have a proper separation, an appropriate unit to protect the rights of those who are now in places of deprivation, for we know that there are many innocent people there for various reasons.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u127	Please respond.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u128	Thank you for asking. I can tell you, Russian experience has convinced me. Human rights representatives in the regions do not actually have the opportunity to visit penitentiary facilities, because this is only the prerogative of the Federal Ombudsman. Our law provides for this opportunity to create representation or to have representatives in the regions. However, so far, my request to provide specific funding so that the Ombudsman can do so so far, no parliament has ever done so. Nevertheless, from the central budget, I have allocated some of the funds to have such representatives in the largest regions of Ukraine, in the most problematic, this is certainly the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, where our representatives have been working for several years, this is the Carpathian region, and this is the Donetsk region, the Lugansk region. Today, knowing that many of our labour migrants are in Poland and every year 19 million crossing only the border, I've assigned on the public principles of a well-known lawyer, a Polish lawyer, who has just started this job. I hope it's conditional.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u129	Kenzier.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u130	I ask you to pass the word to Mustafa Cemilov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u131	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u132	Dear Nina Ivanovna, as you recall, we co-sponsored a decree to perpetuate the memory of the well-known human rights defender Peter Grigornka. But yours, one of the actors of your coalition, namely, the Communists, were determined against this decision. Thus, when you are considered in the Supreme Council, not only did you not speak in defense of this decree, but you did not even vote. Please tell me, will you always be guided by your coalition's decision, or will you be guided by your own convictions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u133	Mustafa-aga, you know my position on supporting with you the established order on General Grigorenko, the perpetuation of his memory. My position differed significantly from that of some members of our coalition. And I think that was a confirmation of my independent position. I am absolutely confident that we will be able to raise this issue again and to achieve a positive vote. And for my part, I will do my best to ensure that the ruling that we have made with you is voted in our Parliament.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u134	Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u135	Dear Nina Ivanovna, I have two questions for you. First of all, is this perhaps the question that many deputies in this room are interested in today, can you invalidate the political influence of the political power behind which you have come to Parliament? That's the first one. And the second. In your choice, how do you see the further development of this institution in the light of Ukraine's European integration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u136	I can tell you, Mr. President, that at the Centre for Europe, in Vienna, my colleagues, the honourable ombudsmen, have in general remained the leaders of the three political greatest powers that go to Parliament for 30 years now, but not at any time have the Council of Europe or other international organizations ever asked this question, and they have never challenged the honourable Austrians that the ombudsmen of Austria, who are members of the party, are even dependent on these parties when they carry out specific powers and make a certain oath. This is my answer, of course, which is that I was and remain independent, because I am not a member of the party. Next. I think it's time to give the right to change the Constitution, first and foremost, the right of legislative initiative. And I have tried to come to this Parliament, unfortunately, there is no majority system, and this is a measure of discrimination, mostly of our Ukrainian citizens, because the exclusive proportional system of today is operating in Ukraine. Whatever my colleagues are thinking about, I can say that, I think there should be changes, first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u137	Litvinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u138	Deputy Litvinov, faction of the Party of the Regions. I'd like to give the floor to the Deputy Bachelor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u139	Aunt Dmitrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u140	Thank you very much. Dear Nina Ivanovna! Finally, the whole country and the medical system. and more than a million medical professionals are now calm that the 2007 budget has been introduced in a separate line for the purchase of gamma knives. And we all know very well, especially the doctors and patients who need this treatment, that it is six years ago that you started a charitable collection of Ukrainians to assist in the purchase of gamma knives and today this fund amounts to 4 million 400 grivens. I want to thank you very much on behalf of the medics, the neurosurgeons and those patients who need this help and ask you this question. It was either a medical request or a lot of patient treatment. Thank you so much for always helping all people who need human rights, that's your job, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u141	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u142	Dear friends, I am from this rostrum, Aunt Victorian, thank you for raising one of the most painful issues still pending in Ukraine. I'm just asking you, excuse me, perhaps with your hand out for each of you, today we really need, we really need to have at least one gamma knife for people with brain cancer, because today Ukraine has been trepanizing the skull so far, and then these people are suffering for the rest of their days if they survive. If any of you can or can find that kind of support, we still need it, because the gamma below is one that today our call has already allocated, thanks to the support, first and foremost, to the members of the Party of the Regions, is not enough for all of Ukraine. Each region must have gamma-lower, modern medical equipment. And I'm paying attention, and I'm asking you very much to support this community-based initiative of our nation's ordinary citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u143	Have a seat, please. Is there a need to discuss candidates? It is, isn't it? Sign up. Sign up for factions. Factions, please. Please write down who else wants to speak. Thank you. Ten minutes. More? Oh, 15 minutes, sorry. Kenzior is from the faction of our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u144	Dear colleagues! The Institute of the Representative or the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights is an extremely important institution in the state. And to me, as the national deputy of Ukraine, all five appeals are said to be in front of me, as a note, all the work of Nina Ivanovna Karpachov as such. If the first period, indeed, Nina Ivanovna was honest and conscientious in carrying out her duties, then starting in 2004, this is an undisputed fact, because we also talked about it in the Supreme Council, - Nina Ivanovna began to fully carry out the commission of the then BPO. This was very clearly followed by events that occurred in Mukacheva. Nina Ivanovna openly sided with those bandits who destroyed freedom, the will of martyrs in elections, in memorable elections. And it was no accident that Nina Ivanovna was given the idea, instead of the Authorized One, that the name “the girl of the political challenge” was established. It's what we used to say here all the time. And today, when we see that even in this rostrum, when Nina Ivanovna tells us, she thanks us all for what we call the Kuchma, which she calls, as it were, a bright despot, she thanks us that, contrary to the President's Administration, we chose her, she immediately went to the election with the high-ranking columnist Kuchma Yanukovich in the Supreme Council. Where's the logic? So empowered by human rights, which today is exclusively on the run in the same political force that we know about, how it deals with freedom of speech, with human rights, with the notion of democracy, I think the world just whistles at our decision today, which we, God forbid, will make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u145	Let's hope so. More intelligent than any of our deputies. You don't have to, let's talk about it properly, essentially. The word is given by Volodymyr Alexandrovich Yavorowski of the faction of Block Tymoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u146	Dear colleagues, our constituents! I want to remind you and myself that today we have a very responsible vote. I would like to remind you that we will no longer be in this room, and the lawyer elected today to perform the function, give your word, the “watchdog” in the protection of human rights, will remain. Because of this, it is indeed a very and very responsible vote. We have two candidates today. They're different, they're diverse, even so I'd say. In fact, my political life was constantly developing in parallel with Nina Carpathian’s political life. I want to remind you, Mrs. Nina, and the night we adopted the Constitution. Until the last minute, an article was discussed. I want to say that the Yulia Block of Timoshenko treats Nina Carpachov with great sympathy as a person who is determined, sometimes tough, always able to hold a position. I would even like to finish this part of my speech by welcoming Nina Karpachov with her election as an ombudsman, and I have no doubt about it. But at the same time, Mrs. Nina, I want to say something else in order to remain honest before both you and the voters. I want to tell you that from my point of view, of course, the peak of your activity has already taken place. It was the moment that you, indeed, took the stand against the Bush authorities. I'm not exactly here to speak to my colleague Kendiser. It's a peak. He just forgot. The glory is that it was then that she took an amazing position: she brought this police sergeant and planted it there. It was amazing, and I was really happy that Ukraine had such a human rights advocate. And protecting is what! And protecting is what! Because our wages around the world are totally illegal because our European court is overwhelmed by cases from Ukraine. But, Nina Ivanovna, I want to be absolutely honest and say, it was your mistake, you were a wonderful Ombudsman, we stood you up for the second time, and we would have chosen you for the third time. The fact that you were the fifth number is not just on the list, but you were carrying an ideology. What did you need this for? I don't understand. And a few words about Zechariah. I say again, you'll be an ombudsman and, God forbid, you reach another peak. But I'm sure he's already in the back. I'll tell Sugar, don't worry. For you, it's also a starry time, Ukraine has learned about you, and what you're assigned to this position is a recognition of the merit you already have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u147	Thank you. Herman. Hannah Herman will be paying attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u148	If you were with us, said the previous reporter, we would have chosen you both the fifth and the third and the tenth times. But. Nina Karpachov was with you and with us and always with the Ukrainian people. And as the promoter of any political power, she always had the courage to speak the truth and defend the rights of citizens. For the first time, I met Nina Carpachova in 2002, in the midst of “Ukraine Without Couchma”, this huge campaign. We met abroad at a meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe where I worked as a journalist. What was remarkable was the behavior of this woman who came from a country where such a harsh regime was in place at the time, and how she spoke courageously about human rights violations in Ukraine. How bravely she went behind this rostrum of parliamentary and talked about human rights violations in Ukraine when Boris Kolesnikov was behind bars, and another regime was already under way, and other authorities were already violating human rights. What Karpachov found in her, having a perfectly comfortable situation, to go on the lists of the Party of Regions, was a courageous act, she showed that she was in opposition and at the moment, that she was in opposition to human rights violations in Ukraine. I consider this woman to be experienced, wise, not involved, and someone who will always protect the rights of a person who is not in power and what political power does not. She proved this to be her life. I propose that, honourable colleagues, make another effort to ensure that the person defending human rights in Ukraine has the right to legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u149	The word is from socialists Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich, please. After him, Jemilev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u150	I went out to this rostrum to reiterate my support for Nina Ivanni Karpachov. I have come out to state this from myself to declare from the faction of the Socialist Party in the Supreme Council to declare support from the All-U.S. Justice Association, of which I am co-chaired and which, at its last meeting, unanimously decided on the support of Nina Ivana Karpachov. I went out to see the opponents of the Carpathian election. What is the essence of respect for Nina Ivanovna? When I saw her photo, when I saw a clipping of a newspaper with a picture of her, as a professional lawyer, as a lawyer, in many defendants, defendants, many S.I.S.A. and outside of S.I.A. This, indeed, is respect, respect for the highest and last human hope. And every defender knows the true price of that hope. We were approached by a letter from a man who knows all over the world who turned to me in a letter of address. I'm only quoting a few words. “ Millions of unhappy people in Nina Karpachova’s person have found a kind, loving, understanding person who in the most difficult times comes to the aid of the abandoned miserable people. Hundreds of people turn to her daily. Useless, loving, vulnerable to other people's troubles has become a mother, a sister and hope.” That's the word of Lassie Gongadze. And when I meet her, I'd like to say what she's said, that Georgia's case isn't taken care of by the Attorney General or by other officials, only Nina Ivanovna Karpachov. And she turned to Nina Ivanovna: Do not let go of the Georgia Gongadze case, bring her to trial. In closing my speech, I would like to urge all the national MPs to support Nina Ivanovna Karpachev, and in doing so we will vote for someone who is never, and I am convinced, will not stop fighting for the truth, in the fight for justice, in the struggle for the rights and interests of every Ukrainian citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u151	Cemiliev has his word. Please. Rephat Chubarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u152	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! We need to be objective, Nina Ivanovna is one of the Ukrainian statesmen and politicians who have made the greatest contribution to the establishment of an institution as important in our State as the Human Rights Commissioner. But we need to be honest because it is Nina Ivanovna who is on the electoral list of one of the political powers, and it is not important here that she has questioned society in her ability to preserve such an institution as the Authorized Human Rights Authority, completely independent of political agendas, both in Parliament and in society. I often travel by the subway, and today I had such a strange, interesting conversation with one of those who approached me, which we talked about for ten minutes. However, this person tried to convince me that because he believed Nina Ivanovna would be selected, it was necessary to bring to the Institute as the Human Rights Commissioner the coalition principle of admission to the work of employees, and I tried to tell him that in no way could we now have a political timetable that we, who became very fashionable in our society as in the formation of a government, in the personnel of all such trumpets and so forth, could be transferred to an institution as the Authorized Human Rights Commissioner. I really don't know, after the last of these political processes, the trends in which I was involved, including Nina Ivanovna, can we keep this institution really independent? You know, and when I've been listening to all these discussions, you know, I'd like us to move away from the stereotypes that sometimes occur here in the hall. This was the word grantoid, the influence of state institutions. Nina Ivanovna, I think, as you know, and it's very good that you did this, the Human Rights Commissioner's institution was one of the recipients of worthy grants to build that system, including from foreign states, including from various interstate foundations. I say this by saying that it is often necessary to be open and public, regardless of the circumstances, that those who listen to you enjoy it. If you're sure you're right, it's Mr. Zachary Eugene who showed it to us today. He realized that some of his conclusions were those that were not accepted by the majority in the hall, but he spoke about it, for since he was certain that he was right, he should be authorized by human rights. Even though you are, we want to hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u153	Thank you. The incorruptible conveys Lechchenko’s word. Xenia Levchenko speaks, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u154	Dear colleagues! Dear listeners! Dear Chief! I want to speak in support of Eugene Yuhimovich Zakharov, who is a representative of the public organisations, co-chair of the Kharkiv Law Protection Group, head of the Ukrainian Helsinki Association, and not only because the factions of our Ukraine and the BUT put forward this candidature, but because public organizations, and almost 400 of them, signed under this candidature. And I don't think we need to divide the two candidates we have into coalition candidates and opposition candidates. The Ombudsman is a position that should belong to civil society. And it was by listening to the voice of civil society, of the public, that Eugene Zaharov was nominated. And let's look at the software points he's proposing, as a candidate for this position, that's the institution of specialized ombudsmen. For many years, we have been talking about the need to have a child’s rights defender, an ombudsman of gender equality, an ombudsman of prisoners. He talks about the need for the development of the Institute of Regional Commissioners, and this system works in many countries and is positive. He speaks of the need to develop a national preventive torture warning mechanism. We ratified this treaty, this protocol as early as July of this year. It is the Human Rights Commissioner who must be responsible for the implementation of this instrument and the creation of independent preventive mechanisms against torture in the country. This is also cooperation with public organizations that are the basis of the right of protection in the state. As head of one of the law-enforcement organizations, I want to say that we have had good experience working with Nina Ivanovna, but in recent years we have not received letters of assistance to citizens who have suffered both from trafficking in human beings and from domestic violence and from the protection of children's rights. And I think today we need to look not so much into the past, because much has been done by a good ombudsman, but by looking to the future to protect society itself, not just part of it. And so no matter what the outcome of today's vote is, by addressing all the defenders who are listening today to this meeting of the Supreme Council, I want to say that this is today's great victory for the Ukrainian civil rights movement. Because for the first time, it was the right-of-law organizations that put out an ombudsman. Let us support it so that Ukraine can develop as a democratic or civilized state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u155	Thank you. I will continue the meeting until 12.15 p.m. And at the end of this discussion, I just want to say that today our Parliament is in a privileged state, because it is considering two worthy candidates. And so every MP, by voting, can express his attitude specifically by voting for a candidate or another candidate. It's your right. And how to do that, Jaroslav Suhi will say. Please, the head of the Counting Commission. How to vote is to organize a vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, as head of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I announce a meeting of the members of the Counting Commission in the third floor towers, room 5. I'll remind you. In view of the tragic death of our colleague Yuri Orobec, changes have been made to the Counting Commission, allowing only the names of those national deputies of Ukraine elected by the Counting Commission on May 25, 2006 and November 16, 2006: Abdulin, Biruk, Bondarenko Olena Fedorovna, Vyezivsky, Gnatenko, Žebrovsky, Kirilczuk, Kozub, Komar, Korsakov, Final, Pecklusenko, Rimaruk, Stasov, Stoyan, Sulkovsky, Cibenko, Terasov, Filindash, Chubarov, and Shago. Members of the People's Deputies are requested for five minutes to come up to our room for a meeting of the Counting Commission. Alexander Aleksandrovich, I have a request, we'll be ready to report here in 10 minutes, after the meeting and the approval of the form. I ask the secretariat to duplicate this announcement by means of our information to the members of the Committee on Meetings.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u157	Then for a moment, would you like to hold a meeting and a vote at once? How? Then explain again, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u158	The counting committee is now meeting to hold its meeting and to approve the form of two ballot papers. After that, I'm going to go down and we're going to confirm these forms of ballot papers, two ballot papers, and the forms of protection of these ballots, and then we're going to announce a recommendation to the Digital Commission by the voting procedure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u159	Another announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u160	There's one more thing. Dear Head of the Counting Commission, article 41 requires a procedural decision, since we have two candidates for the post of Commissioner, we can take decisions separately on each ballot and vote on the list, one ballot. But there is a need for a procedural vote, that is, at least 150 votes. Therefore, they must be voted upon to prepare a ballot in this order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u161	Dear colleagues, I am simply addressing you as workmates. 450 ballots, we need two of them signed, printed. So I would ask your permission to have the candidates for the Human Rights Commissioner on the same ballot. In another bulletin, he is a candidate for the post of Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the proposal of article 41 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules for the printing of two ballot papers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u162	I then put this proposal to the vote. I mean, one ballot about two candidates for the post of Commissioner and a separate ballot, in alphabetical order, yes, and a separate ballot about the Deputy Head of Parliament. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:14:12]] For 398 And I want to warn you right away. Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, you are working as required under the Rules. And the session, Parliament will approve your protocols in 30 minutes, meeting after recess. A break of 30 minutes is announced, until 12:45. Everybody look at the clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u163	The word is given by the Head of the Committee of the Custodians, Jaroslav Suchy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u164	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear colleagues! Allow me to demonstrate the forms of ballots recommended by the Digital Commission for the secret ballot for the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and for the appointment of the Supreme Council for Human Rights. The ballot for the secret ballot on the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights is as follows: A4 format.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u165	Name one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u166	It's blue, that kind of color. Who's color-blind, I'm not. I'm a seaman. I'll explain the situation. We can't have two white ballots, we have to make them different. I'm done. Forms of protection for this newsletter: signature. [[It's a pattern. There's no signature here yet.]] The signature of the head of the Counting Commission, Secretary of the Counting Commission. The image will be displayed in the right corner when you arrive at the registration desks. So far, I'm asking you to confirm this form. And then you give me your word, Alexander Alexandrovich, so I can explain the form of the vote. Please, in accordance with Rule 38 of the Rules, paragraph number one of the Supreme Council votes in favour of the pattern approved by the Supreme Council. I'm asking you to confirm two of these samples. Because the second model for secret balloting is the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. Submitted by Tomenka Mikoli Volodimirovica. It has this form - A4 in horizontal form, two signatures - the head and the secretary, it's the protection of this newsletter and the image that will be displayed on the registration desk. Please put to the vote the forms of the ballot. Sample.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u167	He's not happy, he doesn't want to vote for it. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u168	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. The Honourable Head of the Counting Commission! So you said about electing an ombudsman, that it should be a person who is not involved, who should serve the interests of the whole society. You're now offering us a newsletter, a color of a certain political power. And so you're even stressing what your goal is. I recommend that you do the ballots on another paper, in a different color, so that you don't use unnecessary associations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u169	But Tomenko's in the color of the Socialist Party. You see, that's fine. I'm voting on a motion to approve the form of the ballot. Please. [[12:50:05]] For 351 Thank you. Please have a seat. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u170	Dear colleagues, the voting order is as follows. At the presentation of the testimony of the Ukrainian national deputy at the places where we register, where we always vote, there will be four tables behind which the members of the Counting Commission will issue these ballots. You can see here that you've already approved the form, the box where you're marking it. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich, mark, means "for". Where you don't support the candidate, put the bird. If two notes are considered invalid, you will remember. I put such a bird, some crosses, someone doesn't matter, the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine don't provide, says the word'mark'. A mark may be of any shape. For whom we choose, we mark. The other one. Please be careful. There will be two lists on the table: one list -- that you received a Tomenko ticket, the second list -- that you received a ticket for the appointment of the Human Rights Commissioner. Please do not forget to sign, for after that, when we count the votes and ballots, we may have a discrepancy. One more. Remember that there will be an image of repayment. If one of the members of the Counting Commission has forgotten to pass it, ask that image. intermissions at the polling stations are the first, and to conclude under the Rules, we must vote for at least one hour. So we ask you to give us an opportunity to vote for an hour and a half, from 2:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m. So from the second one. This does not need to be confirmed by the Supreme Council. From 2: 30 p.m. to 3: 30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u171	Then from the 14th to the 3:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u172	From the 14th to the 3:30 p.m., there will be a vote in the places set aside by the Supreme Council. At 1: 40 p.m., the Counting Commission meets for a new meeting to accept the printed ballots, list them, and distribute them on tables where the vote takes place. Once again, it is necessary to present a certificate personally, not through someone. I'm trying to get to know you right now. There's one person who's very sick. They'll bring him here. We made a decision in full: The table where he is registered will give him a ticket at the presentation of the certificate. He's having trouble transporting, getting up. Well, that's one candidate, we've made a separate decision. Thank you. Again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u173	There's no more questions, is there? Thank you, Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Well, let him work on the vote. In the meantime, I would like your consent to receive such a decision. We are now considering the appointment of members of the High Council of Justice, and this is also a secret ballot. But I don't want to injure candidates who may not get the required number of votes. The agreement of all factions, we need to discuss this at the Conciliation Council, I would ask you to move this issue to the next sessional week. I'm voting on this proposal. Please be supportive. [[12:54:14]] For 326 That's what secret voting is all about. An open vote discusses the appointment of members of the Higher Qualifications Commission of Judges. I also ask that you move to the next sessional week so that you can consult the heads of factions and determine the candidates. I'll bet you a vote. [[12:54:50]] For 343 Thank you. Alexy Yuriovich Kucherenko is in the hall or not? None. The draft regulation on amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 2 November 2006 “On the establishment of a Provisional Investigation Commission for the Verification of Corruption in the Ministry of Internal Affairs” is then under consideration. In this regard, Malinowski Aleksei Petrovich. He's asking for a place. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u174	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! The draft decree is made in connection with the activity of the Minister of Interior, Yuri Lucenka. And given that the situation has changed today, and Lucenko is not the minister today, as coauthor of this law, I propose to withdraw this decree as one that has lost its relevance today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u175	What does the Stretovich Committee have to say about this, a profile committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u176	Give another word to Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u177	Dear colleagues, as a member of the committee, I can report that the committee has considered this issue twice at its meeting. There is a decision of the Standing Committee that supports this decision. And I think that, and the committee has decided to also support my motion to withdraw from the consideration of how. the relevance of this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u178	It's about Decree 2476, that's what I understand, isn't it? I'm putting her to the vote. Please, if there are no speakers. Are they willing to express themselves? So this is about getting rid of the issue. I'm voting on this proposal, please support. [[12:57:42]] For 259. A decision is made. It is proposed that the draft Law amending article 255 of the Code of Administrative Offences be considered in the second reading. [[on officials who have the right to make protocols]] Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich, head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, reports the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u179	Dear colleagues, I will briefly remind you. A law enforcement committee was prepared for the second reading of a bill amending article 255 of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 28 November 2006. This bill is submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and is aimed at removing gaps in current legislation. In particular, the bill proposes to supplement article 255 of the Code on Administrative Offences. and other aquatic living resources and the paragraph of the other officials of the special licensing authority to grant the right to draw up protocols on the irregularity of the issuance of documents of a permissive nature. In general, this bill is complex, sufficiently formal and aimed at removing gaps in existing legislation. No difficulties were encountered in preparing and preparing for second reading issues, but it should be noted that since the second reading text was prepared for consideration, the law adopted by the Supreme Council on January 11, 2007, No. 2072, where other changes have already been made to the proposed article. Because of this, I have been asked to listen carefully to the editorial that is being proposed from the voice in view of the fact that there is now a slightly different version of the article that is being amended. It is in paragraph two of the proposed bill that will be put forth as follows. The specially authorized licensing authority, the state regulatory policy and the permit system in the field of economic activity and its territorial bodies are already added in article 166 with badge 11 and 166 with badge 12 now replace the digits 166-10, 166-12. This is related to the fact that, after the draft of the bill, which is now being reported, the second reading became a law that changes the formulation of the standard to which changes are made. It's a technical tool. I'm asking you to support this law with this editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u180	Thank you. Here it is that even if you did not announce it, the Legal Office was obliged to carry out the legal drafting of the document and make appropriate clarifications. So you've done the right thing. There are two amendments to this project and there have been no other amendments, so there is good reason to vote on this bill as a whole. I put it to a vote, including the clarification that the reporter made. Please identify yourself. [[13:01:46]] For 332 Decision taken. The second reading is the draft Act amending article 11 of the Ukrainian Law on Physical Protection of Nuclear Installations, Nuclear Materials, Radioactive Waste, Other Sources of Ionizing Radiation. Reported to the head of the Committee's Subcommittee on Fuel Energy and Nuclear Safety by Bronnnikov Vladimir Kostinović. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u181	Dear colleagues! At the previous session, on our first reading, we adopted a law which provided for the possibility of allowing non-nationals of Ukraine to enter nuclear energy facilities. This is due to the fact that there is a great deal of foreign money in the facilities of nuclear energy and, in particular, in the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant, and foreign firms are being engaged to carry out this work. I would like to remind you that there was one question that came up at the reception: how to deal with stateless people? Such amendments to the first reading were sent by Deputy Kalchenko and Deputy Seminoga. After consultation with the Ministry of Justice, since tolerance not only for nuclear energy facilities is not only permitted under the conditions of nationality but also under the conditions of the special requirements and personal characteristics of a person, i.e. no terrorist, no drug addict, no criminal record and no control in the past. The responsibility of the State authority for the management of nuclear energy has been accepted, and it has been edited that if a person is permitted in national legislation, he can work on nuclear energy facilities. Such an amendment was therefore taken into account, amendments were made to both Mr. Calchenko and Mr. Seminoga. The Committee proposes the adoption of a bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u182	Thank you. I would like to remind you once again that the proposals made by members of the committee, which were of vital importance, were voted on. There were no others. So I have reason to talk about the possibility of voting this project. I'm setting up a project, a registration number. I, for one moment, ask you not to interfere with the meeting. Registration number 2368 of the law is generally put to the vote. Please. [[13:04:53]] For 288 Thank you. We have the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatization of Cultural Heritage. He looks at the treatment after further processing. I therefore propose the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Les Tanjuk. Yavorowski will report for himself. In giving meaning to this law, the head of the committee shall report. Please, Javorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u183	Dear colleagues, dear voters, I just want to bring to your attention the substance of this bill. The Law was passed to halt the privatization of those objects that have a direct bearing on the monuments of national culture and architecture. This was done in the previous cadence, it was a very normal decision, because today the zones that are really expensive for our culture, for our national memory, and so on. After that, the Committee on Cultural Affairs, also in its previous call, introduced a bill clarifying the law on certain restrictions on privatization. And we have to give due respect to the President's legal service, they've caught a penny of conflict between the Housing Privatization Act and between that bill. And it turns out that we actually cut off the possibility of privatizing the housing of those who live, let's say in the area of some historical monument, but there's some housing segment where people have apartments and so on and they can't privatize them. This led to a conflict with the Constitution and the Housing Privatization Act. We've put this bill out in our vocation, and I've told you here from this rostrum about it. We actually accepted a large part of the comments that the President made, but then it was discovered that there was such a need, and Alexander Alexander Alexander Moroz said that, to return this bill according to our procedural things, to return it to the committee, to consider it, to shake it all up, to put it in its place. That's the kind of bill we're proposing to you right now. It is based on the fact that before it is possible to privatize, for example, housing in the area of the monument or republican or district or even local significance, the bill introduces a rule that a prior agreement on the terms and conditions of the owner would have to be made. So we run it within a certain frame and it has to do that frame. Why? Because the Housing Privatization Act says that only the owner can make a deal. And you know, he's not the owner yet, he's just going to be the owner. Because of this, I think, this two-stage period, it means privatizing housing, the bums there. And so this applies, of course, to places like Lviv, Ivano-Frankivsky, where there are ancients, different, meaning, monuments such as: Chewing gum, the White Church and so forth. Because of this, the committee is proposing that we have this bill literally passed on the clock. And since he's already been discussed once in the Supreme Council and, in fact, you've given him your consent just so that we can formalize some documents. Because of this, Alexander Alexanderovich, I don't see the need to take up time right now, the essence of this bill I've reported.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u184	Thank you. I think the committee head was convincing. Can we put this project to a vote? I'm betting on the vote and I'm asking you to support this project. Registration number 0817. [[13:09:03]] For 361 It's an adopted law. Well, in view of our consideration of the matter, on the first part of the day, the schedule was broken, so there is also a suggestion that the question of the election and release of judges should be considered after 16 hours. It's not a change of procedure, it's just a sequence and I have the right to do it if you don't deny it, and I see you don't deny it, so we won't vote. The appointment of individual village and city heads for the next election. Head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Rule, Bogeshev Natal Vladislavn. Is there a committee head? Victor Mikolayovich, you have it. The point is that here and to report nothing, it's about assigning out-of-order choices to the village heads. You have Project 3113, it's completely justified. The committee considered giving a positive answer about the selection of the head of the village. Baklano-Muravian village head. Chernigiv district. I'm betting on the vote on this project. To me? To whom? On this subject? Please, come on. Give the Lightman a word, let him ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u185	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Alexander, the question of the next subject. Under the Rules, each question should be reported by a designated reporting committee. Some questions, such as the Lukianka Bill, which was not available yesterday, are very important. You are filming only on the grounds that there is no Lucian. Today you are considering, regardless of the fact that there is no report from the committee. Now you're dealing with the question of judges, even though people have been sitting for hours, waiting. They didn't hear what I was thinking. And I wanted to suggest that we consider a bill as soon as possible on amending 77 articles of the Law on Health, which deals with the interests of millions of people. You see, God knows what questions, but not those who are interested in society! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u186	Thank you, Oleg Lazko. Thank him for taking care of society, because I didn't know that society spoke with your mouth. So we broke it down, put it in order, and I'm announcing it accordingly. But you have the opportunity, but you're gathering signatures now that you're calling me off as Head, then you're going to sit in this place and lead as you see fit. And I'm doing what's supposed to be. Is Bogesheva here? At Oleg’s request, please be on the rostrum as well.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u187	Dear colleagues! You know, the last time I did a report on how many out-of-order elections were scheduled and how many rural, rural, urban heads had been suspended for a period of time. Today, our committee invites you to consider 18 regulations, starting with 3113 and completing 3130, on the appointment of out - of - turn rural and rural head elections on April 22, Sunday, in connection with the early termination of their powers, mostly in 16 cases at your own request and in two cases in connection with death. All the necessary legislative requirements are met. And actually what you can say. The geography itself is Kharkiv, Hmelnitsky – 3 village heads; Kirovograd – 2; the rest – Vinnica, Žitomir, Ivano-Frankivsk, Mikolayev, Poltava, Ternopil, Sumska region, Hersonska, Cherkaske and Chernivecka – one village head and Poltava village head – are also asked to appoint elections in connection with death. Once again, I would like to ask you to support the decision of the State Building Committee, the local self-government to appoint these elections on April 22, 2007. That's it, actually.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u188	Thank you for this report. I don't think there's any questions. You don't? None. So you sit down, please, I'll put you to the vote consecutively. Decree 3113 has already been announced, voting is under way, please. [[13:14:34]] For 380 The decision to appoint the successive election of the Onufriyev district of Kirovograd district, 3114, is based on the vote. [[13:14:57]] For 387 It's an order. So is the High-Paul village head of the Valkow district of Kharkiv, 3115 decree, please. [[13:15:22]] For 403 A decision has been made. Verbovite village head of Murovanokurilovatsky district of Vinnitsk district. [[3116 Decree]] [[13:15:48]] For 404 A decision has been made. Veremius village head, Chernobai district of Cherkas region I'm going to vote 3117. [[13:16:11]] For 416 Decision taken. Hanniev village head. Petrovsky district of Kirovograd. Decree 3118 is put to the vote. [[13:16:37]] For 417 Decision taken. Hubarov village head. The God - Duct district of Kharkiv 3119. [[13:17:00]] For 409 A decision has been made. Kamyan village head of the Hmělnick district. 3120. [[13:17:22]] For 417 Decision taken. Catherine’s village head of the Kharkiv district of Lozov 3121. Please. [[13:17:43]] For 421 Decision taken. Kyyanic village head, Sumi district of Sumi district The 3122 ruling shall be voted on. [[13:18:04]] For 421 Decision adopted, 421. Miroljubov village head of the frat region of the Mikolai region Notice what beautiful names we have in the settlements. Decision 3123 shall be voted on. [[13:18:30.]] For 426 Decision taken. Pharchomovsky village head of the Hmelnick district of Hmelnitsk district The 3124th ruling shall be voted on. [[13:18:53]] For 414 Decision taken. Sublub’s head of the Emylchin district of the Zitomir region. 3125. [[13:19:16]] For the 420. Decision taken. The transfigurative head of the Chaplin district of Herson. The 3126 ruling shall be voted on. [[13:19:39]] For 417 Decision Adopted Snovdiv village head of the Butchi district of Ternopil district Decree 3127 shall be voted on. [[13:20:02]] For 415 Decision taken. The Hungarian village head, the Ivano-Frankow City Council of the Ivano-Frankow region. 3129. [[13:20:24]] For 417 Decision taken. An old-fashioned village head of the Danube region of the Hmelnitsk Region, 3128 [[13:20:46]] For 418 Decision taken. The Orgitsky village head of the Orgitsky district of Poltava Region, 3130, is voted on. [[13:21:11]] For the 420. Decision taken. Decision accepted, thank you. The next question we have is about changing the boundaries of the city. Victor Tikhov, please go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u189	Dear Alexander Alexander, Ukrainian national deputies! I think all of you have heard of the island of Snakes and the circle of problems associated with the island.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u190	I ask you, Victor Mikolaiovich, first of all, we need to consider transferring the Ladzhine ruling. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u191	Yes, there is a proposal for question 2781 to be removed today and instead to raise the question of assigning a name to the settlement of the Kili district of Odessa, the island of Snakes, and to vote in favour of this decree. Take off 2781.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u192	Deputies! I ask you, Victor Mikolaiovich, let me explain: the committee will take a further look at 2781, there are specific proposals, so we will vote in two, two votes will be. We're going to take this decision off the table. Instead, let's move it to the next plenary week, instead, to draft Decree 3135 on assigning a population item that is located on Snake Name Island, which would allow it to be transferred, to include in the list of Ukrainian administrative and territorial units. I think that's what everyone understands. So, first of all, I'm putting to the vote the motion to postpone ruling 2781 to the next plenary week. Please, there's a vote. Please support me. [[13:23:33]] For 415 And I'm voting for the inclusion in the agenda of draft regulation 3135 on assigning the name to the settlement of the Kili district of Odessa. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:24:01]] For 419 Decision taken. Victor Mikolaiovich, two words in fact.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u193	Now essentially. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, national deputies. I think all of you have heard of the island of Snakes on numerous occasions, a circle of problems related to the island. For your consideration today, it is suggested that only one of these problems be solved in connection with the establishment of a community center on the island. Thus, on July 5, 2006, the Odessa District Council, in full responsibility for existing legislation, decided to establish the village of Bille in the area of Snake Village. According to the territorial jurisdiction of the village, the village is under the jurisdiction of the Vilkow City Council and is designed to ensure vitality in the territory of the island, to strengthen border protection, to develop the maritime economic zone of Ukraine, to develop scientific, historical, agricultural, tourist potential of the island, and to develop economic activity. Investment involvement, construction of the communal sphere. The island already has sufficient infrastructure to ensure the vitality of the island’s inhabitants and personnel. Today, there is a reliable digital connection, mobile communications, and the Internet, with post offices, a field office, and a grocery store. In a residential area, drinking water is extracted and cleaned, 4 houses are built with a total housing area of 800 square meters, a dock complex is put into operation, a permanent connection with the island is established during the navigational period, a structured area, lighting, and other work. According to the island’s economic development plan, a point of primary processing is envisaged. During the period of active fishing on the island’s shelf, there are constantly up to 20 fishing vessels interested in producing fish directly in the open sea without further moving to the mainland port of destination. So these and other facts testify to the reasonableness of the decision of the Odessa District Council to establish the Serpent’s inhabited site on the island. In accordance with article 85, paragraph 29, of the Constitution of Ukraine, Ukraine’s National People’s Deputies have been assigned to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so the Odessa District Council has asked the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the assignment of the newly created settlement of Bile. The question of assigning the name of the seat was approved in the general congregations of the inhabitants, the population, and the support of the Bilkowsk district, the Kielish district, and the Odessa district council. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government considered the matter at its meeting yesterday, endorsed the decision to support the Odessa District Council’s concern for the assignment of the Vilkow Town Council of the Odessa District to the Snake Island area of the village of Bila. The committee asks the Ukrainian National Deputies to support the decision and vote in favour of the relevant decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention. A decree of two literal sentences. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees that the settlement of the district of Odessa, located within the city council of Wilkow, should be assigned to the village of Bila.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u194	No questions asked by Viktor Mikolaiovich. Shevchenka has a question? Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u195	I'm just asking you to explain why this populace is going to be part of the Wilkow City Council?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u196	Because he goes in there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u197	It's territorial.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u198	Territorially located.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u199	Would you like to go straight to Odessa City or something? That's a long way off. No more questions? Have a seat, please. No one wants to talk. Everyone understands the point of the question. And I'm voting on draft Decree 3135 on assigning the name of the settlement of the Kili district of Odessa. There's a vote coming. [[13:28:48]] For 417 Decision taken. Let us wish this inhabited point of good and lasting, eternal history within the territory of Ukraine. Thank you. Wait a little alone, and then with your help. A draft law on the approval of the Public Programme against Tuberculosis in 2007-2011 is under consideration. Report to Deputy Health Minister Poor Valery Grigorovitch, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u200	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! Let me tell you that today there is a very dangerous situation in both the world and Ukraine with tuberculosis. According to the World Health Organization, between 8 million and 9 million people die each year. The total number of patients is 60 million. Tuberculosis predominates in the structure of mortality from infectious and parasitic diseases and is more than 80 percent. The TB epidemic in Ukraine has been estimated by the World Health Organization since 1995. In the current stage, Ukraine has been classified as a high level of TB and has a higher disease rate today than in most countries in Central and Eastern Europe. According to WHO, Ukraine ranks second in Europe after Russia on the brunt of tuberculosis. Four new cases of tuberculosis and one fatality are reported every hour. Over the last 15 years, the rate of TB has increased 2.4 times, and the death rate has increased 2.7 times in 2005, respectively, to 84 and 25 per 100,000. In 2006, for the first time in decades, TB fell by 1.1 percent and accounted for 83.2 per 100,000. Yet, such optimism does not relieve anxiety about the disease. We have to report an increase in the last years of tuberculosis among children between 0 and 14 years of age by 7.9 percent, 9.6 per 100,000 children versus 8.9 in 2005. Today, the issue of combating tuberculosis is one of the priorities of public policy in health and social development. This is confirmed once again by Presidential Decrees of 30 November 2005 on improving state administration in the field of HIV infection and tuberculosis in Ukraine. As of February 14, 2006, No. 132, “On the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine” of January 18, 2006, “On measures to improve the effectiveness of the fight against dangerous infectious diseases”. The drawing attention to this problem by the President of Ukraine, the Parliament and the Government of Ukraine shows that tuberculosis, as a global problem, affects the whole of society, every citizen in particular. By taking priority measures to overcome the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, the state sees improvements in the social well-being of the population and substantial increases in the financing of anti-tuberculosis measures. The approval of the draft Ukrainian Law on the approval of a national anti-terrorist programme in 2007-2011 will allow for the consolidation of the positive trends identified in the epidemic process: Ensure an annual reduction of one percent of the rate of disease and tuberculosis mortality among the population. Prevent the development of chemotherapy resistant tuberculosis. Increase the effectiveness of treatment. Improve the training and retraining of medical personnel. Improvements in the diagnosis of tuberculosis. Social security of medical personnel in this area is particularly important. The new program takes into account international standards for the control of tuberculosis, which are key: Improvements in the training of health workers in the field of fitness and before and after the degree level and the provision of high-skilled staff in anti-tuberculosis facilities. Reaching a sufficient level of daily population information system for prevention and treatment of tuberculosis. Social ads for healthy lifestyles. Establishing the administrative subordination of anti-tuberculosis facilities to the single government. Coordination of the work of ministries, other executives and local self - government, public organizations in the field of anti-terrorism. Providing timely laboratory diagnostics of patients and tuberculosis, and conducting It's a pimple wetting. Applying Status. Dried treatment regimens for patients under medical supervision, anti-tuberculosis facilities, and anti-micobacterial drugs. When describing the program, we need to focus on the introduction of a doctrine adapted to the traditional system of resistance and the characteristics of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine. I quote the concept of a state-wide TB programme in 2007-2011, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 24.06.2006, number 354R. The process of developing an effective system for combating tuberculosis should be based on the dissipation principle of providing anti-tuberculosis assistance to the population. As for doctrine, it has to be in place, in the TB control facilities in just an adapted and existing traditional system of anti-tumpering and the characteristics of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine and in. Taking into account the relevance of the tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine, and the almost deplorable material and technical state of the anti-tuberculosis institutions, the Ukrainian Act on the Approval of the State-wide TB control programme in 2007-2011 will provide an opportunity to improve the organization of the detection and treatment of tuberculosis patients, which effectively affects the basic link of the epidemic process to the source of infection. Today, the issue of combating tuberculosis is one of the priorities of public health policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u201	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. I want everyone's attention. The topic, I understand, is that the discussion is unfolding in the hall, because the topic is important. But keep this discussion quieter so they can listen to the reporter. Six questions. Klukkowski. Six minutes, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u202	Please give the floor to the national MP, Lilia Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u203	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u204	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Valery Grigorovich, allow me first of all to welcome you to this rostrum as Deputy Minister of Health and, unfortunately, with such an extremely relevant program to deal with the problem that has taken place in our country. After taking a close look at the measures that have been proposed, I wanted you to make public, especially to the medical community, to the general public that is hearing us today, the fact that we were asked about in the preparation and consideration of the Health Committee of this program. Because everyone knew there was going to be a DOC. But to some extent, questions were raised in our medical staff, our patients in terms of preventive examinations, about the preventive course as one that is one of the primary in the prevention of this disease. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u205	Thank you, Lilia Stepanovna. I want to say that those traditional treatments that have been adopted in the TB system are the basis. The DOC system is a strategy that combines five treatment factors today. And the main ones are smart, rapid laboratory diagnostics, availability of medical supplies, and especially today's dispensary supervision. But of course, the first priority was to prevent TB.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u206	Scooby.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u207	Dear Valery Grigorovich, please tell me in this program, you know that the most important, one of the most important, is not just the treatment of investigations, but the elimination of causes. As far as I know, no anti-tuberculosis dispenser in Ukraine is equipped with autonomous cleaning facilities. And all the waste produced in the scope of the dispensary is dumped into the general sewerage and, of course, it is distributed. I did not see any action in the programme to address this cause. Please, that's a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u208	Thank you. Answer me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u209	Thank you. Indeed, it is. Because in Ukraine today, the network of treatment facilities that deal with tuberculosis is in poor condition, and in the last 15 years, there has been a reduction in the treatment network, the treatment and prevention institutions, and it is in this program that, given that this is the basic law, will be the divisions and decisions of the Cabinet of Ministers, the orders of the Ministry, where all the factors will be taken into account, and the improvement of the material and technical base, including the disposal of those products, the wastes that are now in these treatment facilities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u210	Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u211	Vladimir Karpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Valery Grigorovich! The first TB program that will end in 2005, despite both financial and material security, has still failed, and you know it. There were shorter beds, shorter children’s sanatoriums, especially located in the beautiful places of Crimea and Odessa. Do you not think that the same success awaits this program from one that will not have enough control, first of all, parliamentary control, first of all, understanding that this is a state-wide program, because the goul that stands in this room already shows that the people's deputies have no interest in solving this important task, and the efficient use of the funds, because it costs a lot, but once I get acquainted with this program, I see that there is a lot of need for clarification there?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u212	I completely agree with you. What I'm saying is that just when this program is approved, it's going to be able to create a vertical, both at the bottom and at the bottom. And this will enable control, both today and today, of the implementation of this program at the level of self - government bodies, as well as of other executive bodies. And as far as security is concerned today, this year, more than ever, the State budget allocates 200 million 181 thousand to the program, of which 100 million 181 thousand for fast-diagnosis equipment and 100 million for TB treatment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u213	And don't worry, the MPs are buzzing, so they're discussing this problem, so that's the response. Widow Hennady Josephovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u214	Dear Valery Grigorovich! I would also like to join my colleague, Grigorovitch, and warmly congratulate you on your appointment to this high office. You're a great surgeon, an expert, an urologist, and on behalf of the men who are not under your control, I'd like to recommend to everyone that if there's anything wrong with you men, go to Valery Grigorovovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u215	You'd better not get in.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u216	I didn't want you to spend a lot of your talent on organizational methods. But. It's a job. But the question is. The main source of tuberculosis in Ukraine is prison. Ukraine ranks 8th in the world by the number of people sentenced by 100,000. Oleg Lazko asked me to give him the word, and he also wanted to say it. What does this program predict? How Can I Cope With TB in Prisons?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u217	Thank you. An extremely topical question. With experience in Kiev, we've made a joint structure with the city's internal affairs administration, and today in Desert Water at 1 tuberculosis hospital, that's exactly where people are temporarily staying. Free will is being tested and treated if necessary. Although this is an extremely topical issue, and we will consider and consider it in this programme, so that it is also within Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u218	Oh, everyone's already asked who wanted to. Please sit down, Valery Grigorovitch. I join those words too, and just so that no one will have to come to you as a doctor. Before the Deputy Minister, please. Bachelor's report, Aunt Dmitry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u219	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The draft Law on the Tuberculosis Programme, submitted today, is of paramount importance to Ukraine. It is known that the first tuberculosis epidemic in Ukraine was declared since January 1995. Since then, every year we have had a trend in morbidity and, unfortunately, the increase in mortality by tuberculosis in Ukraine. Tuberculosis is considered to be a social disease and is a mirror of the country's social and economic well-being and also represents the level of education of the people. The fight against tuberculosis is therefore very important. And according to an expert from the World Health Organization Ministry of Health, 90 per cent of the fight against tuberculosis is believed to depend on the actions of the Government and only 10 per cent depends on health workers. It is therefore very important to understand that the implementation of such State programmes is very important for the country. I would like to point out very much that the programme, which was the previous one, was 2002-2006, has seen some positive developments in the fight against tuberculosis, and some indicators have been established. First of all, this has reduced the incidence of tuberculosis in children. Free medical supplies have been established, modern diagnostic techniques have been expanded, and the treatment of tuberculosis patients has also improved significantly. The new programme is sufficiently detailed and includes a number of urgent and priority activities that cover not only medical but also social aspects, as well as logistical and financial security. The activities of the programme are entrusted to the central authorities, the Academy of Medical Sciences, the Council of Crimea Ministers, the regional, Kiev and Sevastopol City Public Administrations. The comments made by the Scientific and Expert Directorate do not have an impact on the content of the programme and will be taken into account in the practical implementation of the programme. The draft was supported by the Committee on Budget Affairs, and the comment on the source of funding for 2007 had already been taken into account since the State budget for the current year had already invested that money. In its consideration of the draft at a meeting of the Committee, all members of the People's Committee unanimously supported the need for its early adoption and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the Act approving the State-wide TB programme for 2007-2011 as a basis. And if there is no objection from colleagues and members of the people, it is generally accepted as a law. I would also like to say a few words of statistics. Unfortunately, four new cases of tuberculosis are recorded in our country every hour, and one patient dies of tuberculosis every hour. Therefore, the importance of this bill, I think, is clear and necessary for everyone in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u220	Any questions for Aunt Dmitry? Yes. Please sign up. Six minutes. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u221	Dear reporter! It is clear that the problem of combating tuberculosis and adopting the programme, despite the fact that the programme that ended in 2005, is, in principle, a negative assessment, but that was the first attempt to concentrate. Say that in the programme that we're going to approve today, and if we have to adopt such a programme, I'm absolutely sure, is there something that will fundamentally distinguish it from the programme that ended in 2005? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u222	Thank you very much. I drew attention to the fact that the previous programme has also had positive developments, and that we have seen a marked decrease in the incidence of tuberculosis among children. That's why we're saying that she worked normally, that there's such a thing. With regard to the new programme, the funding we have for 2007 — 200 million for the purchase of drugs and 200 million for the acquisition of equipment — is certainly important. Practically, equipment will be able to survey all patients of our Ukrainians in all parts of our country. Today, too, it is not a secret that it is not possible to do a fluorographic survey; it is not possible to do an X-ray. To do that, where machines work, you have to buy X-rays. And X-rays are not before 1978, 1980. Therefore, this maximum budget spending will be directed towards the acquisition of equipment to prevent tuberculosis. So the X-ray will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u223	Thank you. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u224	Vladimir Kurpuk, “Our Ukraine”. Dear Tetiano Dmitrovno, tens of millions of dollars were allocated last year to buy drugs and equipment. But you know that in 2006, millions of these funds are not used. There is an ambiguity in ensuring certain areas of implementation of these plans. Next. How do you feel about the proposal to purchase, not centralized anti-tuberculosis drugs, but to move it to regional level?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u225	Thank you very much. We have dealt with this issue with the Academy with the Ministry of Health on several occasions. So far, it has been decided that procurement and medicines and equipment related to such public programmes should be centralized. Subsequent centralization, it is mandatory, it must be. But to do this, you need to go through a phase that needs to show today that only medicines are being purchased and equipment is being purchased only from high-quality equipment. That China, we will be together, Vladimir Grigoryevich, and with you to prevent the Chinese production of any equipment or medicine in the tender from being imported into Ukraine. To be only Germany, France, worthy of equipment. Therefore, we will work to ensure that central procurement is also controlled by the Committee. And I think we're gonna do this job with you. This work is now well understood by the Ministry of Health itself, and very many people's deputies will participate in it, so I think it will be just as it should be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u226	Moses.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u227	Alexandre Alexandrovich, pass the word to Catherine Lewchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u228	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u229	I have a question for you. I'm afraid I don't see you behind standing deputies. Tuberculosis is a terrible problem in places of deprivation, and not only in investigators, but also in detention cells, in prisons. And there's also a serious problem with the transfer of people who are detained and only have 10 days to be in temporary detention cells and it's not solved today. And that's why I have a question for you. How is it planned to solve this problem, as well as to improve the treatment of people with tuberculosis who are in places of deprivation, who then come out of these places and spread the infection in society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u230	Thank you very much. In the fourth Congress of the Supreme Council, I myself have submitted such a bill, it exists today and it is in life today that every prisoner will be examined before being in detention and after leaving it must also be examined precisely for fluorographic surveys in order not to spread tuberculosis. We're already doing this. Thank you. This is my bill. It's very strict, it already is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u231	Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u232	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to give it to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u233	Oleg Lazko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. We support the bill and we will vote in favour of the adoption of the programme, because it is important that people are able to be treated for the “Julia Timoshenko Block”. But it is equally important that people have rights. So, Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, I hope that Tetjana Dmitrovna will support me, I ask you to consider immediately after this question Bill No. 2559 on amending Article 77 of the Health Law, since it is a matter of restoring the legal rights of tens of thousands of rural doctors and former health workers who have been deprived of these rights today. And so I suggest you look at it immediately, and tens of thousands of people are waiting for our help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u234	Thank you. Is there something on the agenda?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u235	Aunt Dmitrovna, I understand all the questions will be addressed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u237	Not in a row, but as scheduled. We're not going to make it, so don't worry. And if we spent two hours or four hours on Tuesday in vain, there would be another result, you see, you'd remember when. Is there a desire to discuss this subject, because it was clear in the question-answers that this project should be accepted? They want to vote on the MPs. Then I put in my first reading a draft law that automatically puts both in the first vote and in the program. I'll bet you a vote. [[13:56:11]] For 432 There was an offer by the chairman of the committee of Aunt Dmitry to finally adopt this law as a law, but if there is no objection. Is there a denial? Then the second reading will be passed on. Please consider these questions. Dear colleagues. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u238	Dear colleagues, national deputies of Ukraine! I remind you, it's exactly 2:00 this afternoon that two ballot boxes will be sealed. I remind you once again, the real ones will be those ballots where there's one mark on the ballot, for example, either for Tomenka, or I don't support Tomenka. Two markers are not real. And white, unmarked ballot papers are not real either. It's the same in the other one. Either for Carpachov, or for Zechariah, or for both. Where there are two notes, do not beat me down, or where two notes are not considered real. Unmarked by the MP’s decision, it is not considered to be real. And the last. Please take note, in accordance with article 39 of our Rules, that the Ukrainian national deputy is allowed once to enter a designated place to vote so that we do not have problems and complaints. Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I invite everyone to come to the voting place at 2 p.m., to take part in the voting on the issues we have identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m0.u239	Is that clear? I see. This morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. Next night's session starts at 4:00. It is now a request to take part in the vote on those issues in the secret ballot of those issues that we have discussed. The vote will be, as the chairman of the Counting Commission said, from 14 to 3:30.
