ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, please come into the session room. I think we've got each other right that we've been a little bit delayed since the opening of the evening session, because there's been a direct broadcast of the meeting of the Chief of the Supreme Council and the Prime Minister of Ukraine with representatives of the diplomatic corps, about 80 ambassadors. And I think we did the right thing not interrupting the broadcast of this direct encounter, and you also had the opportunity to watch this broadcast. So once again, I apologize for the delay and ask to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[16:13:03]] There are 256 national deputies registered in the session hall. I hereby declare the evening session of the Supreme Council open. Dear colleagues, let us consult. In my opinion, the latest events, the events of the last hours, the last minutes that are taking place in society probably give us reason and at the evening session to speak on behalf of the factions, the individual MPs on the occasion of the situation. There will be no objection to hearing our evening session from a so-called breakup. You don't? Then please register with the factions who would like to speak. Yes, and from the National MPs, although I realized so much that I have a record. Sign up for the MPs, please, individually. Please, please, Catherine Seed. Yes, is it? Please, 30 minutes. Catherine Samuel, the Communist faction. Alla Alexandrovska, please. John Bokam to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u2	Dear colleagues, I have come to this rostrum and I hope that Ukraine is listening to us and watching a broadcast from the Supreme Council Hall, in order to ask our citizens with a very simple request: honourable citizens of Ukraine, take this document, which is called the Constitution of Ukraine, and take it up and read it, because I now wish to refer to the specific articles of this document, the Constitution of Ukraine, in my statement. All that has been happening in Ukraine lately, everything initiated by the President and his environment has been a grave violation of individual articles, individual positions of the document, and at the end of recent events yesterday and today, these violations have become systemic. I want to read you a phrase. What was President Yushchenko talking about when he took office in this rostrum, taking the President's oath? Among other things, he said: “I commit myself to upholding the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, caring for the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people, upholding the rights and freedoms of citizens, upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, carrying out my duties in the interests of all fellow Ukrainians, and upholding the authority of Ukraine in the world.” All his actions in recent days have crossed those words out. Is he in compliance with the Constitution when today he was informed that he had issued an order by subjugating his internal forces? Where is it in the Constitution, where is it in the Police Act, where he read it? No, it's not. Does he perform his duties for the benefit of all his fellow countrymen? How many letters, phone calls, letters are we receiving with you, distinguished colleagues, at people's meetings: "When will peace finally be? We want to work'? Today, from this rostrum, I've been saying that we have negative moments in the economy: we have actual exports and imports, because who wants to do business today, who wants to import or export something to Ukraine without knowing how these operations are going to end, its activities? Is it in the interest of the people? People are tired, people are scared. People are afraid to go on vacation, leave their home, they're afraid they won't be able to come back! They're afraid to send their children to rest because they don't know what's going to happen! Do these actions give authority to Ukraine? Of course not. We have witnessed today a meeting of the leadership of our Parliament, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, with representatives of the diplomatic corps. Are they not concerned about what is happening in Ukraine? And isn't it absurd that the constitutional guarantee brings this discomfort? I say softly, I speak softly. It's been a long time since we started the impeachment procedure. We understand that we have no two-thirds, we have no three-quarters to finally vote on the constitutional decision, but we have 226 votes to make our comments and claims to the President. And we have to do it. In 106 articles, I saw that more than half of his functions, which he prescribed today, violated or did not properly perform or did not perform at all. I therefore call on everyone: we must take a clear position, and the future of Ukraine depends on us. We are with you, Parliament of Ukraine. And we are also with you as a guarantee that Ukraine will be a democratic State and guarantee that it will have the law. On that basis alone, we are under an obligation to devote our meeting to the issue of the President's impeachment, to discuss this issue and to come up with a solution. This is what Ukrainian citizens are waiting for us to do, and they demand that we keep everything that is happening in Ukraine within the framework of the Constitution within the framework of the law. This position of communists has repeatedly been heard here in various statements, including today such statements have been made. I think that, in the end, with our sense of responsibility, we are simply obliged to give a legal assessment of the actions of the President and his surroundings. We're told we don't have a majority. And what I'm saying is, these empty ranks that are not filled today by those who are still abruptly lying to the voters, he says, "No, we're still MPs." But before that, they waved their papers, and they said, "These are our statements. We are no longer in Parliament and therefore Parliament is illegal, with fewer than 301 people, 301 members.” Today they say that MPs, where are they? Thus, the question of the debate, the President's impeachment, will be a moment of truth, the political truth, when all representatives of all political forces will have to express their arguments for or against this position, the position to begin the process of impeachment to the President. I believe that we must do so with you, we must stop the destructive actions that are coming from Banking today, the actions that are destroying the Constitution, the right in Ukraine and violating the rights of all the people living here in our State. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u3	Thank you, Alla Alexandrovna. Please, Ivan Sidorovich Boki, the Socialist faction. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u4	Dear colleagues, honourable voters, when I listened to our President yesterday, when he came upon the Constitutional Court with great anger, I think we're dealing with a man with some kind of manic, you know, tendencies. Why did I think so? Well, there was a very simple reason, this same man, who is called President of Ukraine, is the same Victor Yushchenko, in Brussels, a month ago he swore, feared, he's a very religious man, you know, swore and feared that he would submit to any decision of the Constitutional Court. And the same man in the same physical shell, but apparently with another psychological component, suddenly comes to the Constitutional Court. It's all corny. As a coward by nature, Victor Yushchenko was simply apprehensive of the verdict of the Constitutional Court, which certainly should not be doubted here, for every normal lawyer understands this perfectly, and every normal thinker understands that his decrees to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council will only be declared unconstitutional because they do not have a constitutional drop. Moreover, they have no common sense, no drop. It's just an elementary struggle for power, it's just a really manic bite for power, and it's just another one that I'm putting together for adventurers, and you know who I'm talking about, I'm talking about Julia Timoshenko, who came up with this idea -- anything to make a coup. And now we're actually approaching the peak phase of this coup. Today, as you know, the President has come to the conclusion that, contrary to the Constitution, contrary to the National Security and Defence Council Act, he will be included in the composition of the RNBO governors. What do they have to do with the Security and Defence Council? Although he had previously included the director of the National Institute of Strategic Research and the commander of the internal forces, and whom he had not included. Soon, I think he will include all his family, brother, brother - in - law, and whoever you want. But the least we have to do is, as they say, stop and at least do some humorous things. We're dealing with a scary person. With a man whom the people of their time have chosen as President, but no one could think that this person could be so greedy of power, so irresponsible that even in such a difficult time for Ukraine, at a time that draws us closer to a new hunger, this person thinks not of people, not of fate, not of people, but of bread, but of people, but of one way to establish his own selfish petty and subtly me. It's scary! It's scary! Well, there's a rumor that he's already agreed on an RNB, that there's going to be an emergency, but think for yourself what that means? If he's in a state of emergency, we need two days from now, or we can approve his decree, or we can cancel it, and since it's coming then, you can understand for yourself, as defined by the law of sanctions, then what? We're dealing with a person who's capable of any adventure that they're going to tell him, or what he's going to be told by an unwholesome imagination, he might go for it. And so when Catherine Semenovna Samolik here offered to start an impeachment procedure, I think that's a perfectly healthy idea. It's a perfectly healthy idea, whether we have enough people today to carry out this procedure, but this procedure needs to start, we need to save the state from the adventurer Yushchenk and the group around him. I don't think there's much more to talk about.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u5	Finish up, Ivan Sidorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u6	Already, the Helette is going to line up the inner armies there. And the fact that the President secretly ordered the Alpha. You realize that these are all things that bring us closer to a national disaster, so you have to think that Ukraine needs to be saved from this person and saved from those people who are setting him up today that are leading Ukraine to ruin. We need to get together and, I think, we're gonna have a national rescue to make the Supreme Council's main task today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u7	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov, please. Plus five minutes from the faction plus three minutes, Eutuhova gives him the right to perform -- eight minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u8	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Today, the President signed an order to bring the system of internal forces management into line with the Constitution of Ukraine. This decree provides for the withdrawal of internal forces from the subordination of the Minister of Interior of Ukraine and for the determination that internal forces are subordinated to the President of Ukraine. Notice that there is no information on the publication of the decree. The reference of the President of Ukraine to the articles of the Constitution in the withdrawal of internal forces from the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and the determination that internal forces are subordinated to the President of Ukraine is unfounded, since under article 106, paragraph 17, of the Basic Law, the President of Ukraine merely appoints and resigns the superior commanders of the Armed Forces of Ukraine from other military formations. The definition of the term “military formation” is set out in the Ukrainian Law on Defence of Ukraine, by which military formation is created in accordance with Ukrainian legislation, a set of military associations, associations and parts and bodies of government, which are composed of military personnel and are designed to defend Ukraine, protect its sovereignty, state independence and national interests, territorial integrity and integrity in the event of armed aggression, armed conflict or the threat of attack by the direct introduction of military action. In this way military formations are united military units, institutions, enterprises and organizations of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and in no way involve internal troops here. This conclusion is also confirmed by an analysis of the special Ukrainian Law on Internal Forces and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, which regulates the activities, subordination and competence of internal forces. According to the article 1 of this Act, the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine are part of the system of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and are assigned to the protection and defence of important public entities, which are established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to the protection of institutions for the execution of sentences and medical and labour institutions, and to participate in the protection of public order and the fight against crime. So even the competence in the military is different. Military formations are protecting Ukraine in the event of armed aggression, external aggression, and internal forces are protecting public order, protecting medical and labour institutions, etc. In addition, article 6 of this Law establishes that the internal forces are subordinated to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine, and part 2 of this article indicates that direct management of the internal forces is carried out by the commander of these armies. In our case, Kichtenko. Thus, President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine, by adopting this decree, went again harshly beyond the limits set out in the Constitution of Ukraine. The reference of the President of Ukraine to paragraph 1 of section 15 of the Constitution makes no sense at all, since the logic of this provision or the Constitutional Court is to give an official interpretation of what part of the law is in force, after the Constitution or the Supreme Council of Ukraine as the only legislative body can adopt a new law. The President signed another decree today to amend the President's decree on changes in the composition of the MPO. By decree, the President brought together the heads of the district administrations and the heads of Kiev and Sevastopol. I note that according to article 107, part 5, of the Constitution of Ukraine, part 2 of article 6 of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act, part 2 of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council: Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Defence of Ukraine, Head of Security of Ukraine, Minister of Interior of Ukraine, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Period. According to part of article 6 of the Ukrainian National Security and Defence Council Act, members of the National Security and Defence Council may be managers of other central authorities, the key word of the central executive authorities and all. So the heads of the district government can't be part of the MPB. Furthermore, in accordance with article 6, part 3, I repeat, in accordance with article 6, part 3, of the Ukrainian Law on National Security and Defence, members of the National Security and Defence Council may be the leaders of other central authorities, I reiterate the key word, the central executive authorities and everything. So the heads of the district government can't be part of the MPB. Furthermore, in accordance with article 12 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Government Administrations, the heads of local government administrations, their deputies, heads of administrations, departments, other structural units, local government administrations cannot be Ukrainian national deputies or combine their service activities with others, including on public grounds. I would like to stress once again, the key word “on the social agenda” in addition to teaching, scientific and creative activities outside the workplace is to be part of the governing body or the supervisory board of an enterprise, or another organization that aims to make a profit. In turn, in paragraph 6 of Part 9 of this Act, the authority of the heads of the local public administrations is suspended by the President in the event of a violation of the requirements of incompatibility. Thus, if the President did not have a policy of violent standards, today, as soon as he introduced the National Security Council of the Heads of State Administrations, he was forced to release them immediately from the post of heads of district administrations, district administrations immediately as he issued an order for the discharge of the Attorney General. But there's a policy of violent standards, and there he releases, and here he's grossly violating the Constitution and he's not releasing it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u9	Thank you. Mikola Sadowa tells Baranowsky. Please. Prepare Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u10	Thank you. It's a faction of socialists. Alexander Baranowski. Honorable colleagues, distinguished audiences, distinguished voters! There's a small village in the Deaf Polissa in Žitomirst, with the beautiful name Haika, where I was born. About fifty percent of Catholics — ethnic Poles — live in this village, and so many Orthodox people. For the great history of this village, there has never been a case of someone stealing something from anyone. The most reliable and formidable, the most impregnable castle in the village where people lock houses and to this day, is a meter stick or a crown supported by the front door. And it never occurred to anyone to break this castle. People go, they go to the house, they go to the market, they go to the fields to grow bread, and the safety rule works. In our Ukrainian home, there were thieves who began simply to steal from themselves, and in the public eye, authority was given to all branches of government. Why is it that for our President, the Secretary of the President today, everyone is not what they want to see? Not like this Parliament, the corrupt Constitutional Court, the non-working CBC, the courts of general jurisprudence today also say they don't work, not that kind of government. The Supreme Court is a show, they call it. It's not the prosecutor's office anymore, it's not the army anymore, it's not. And everyone, and everything, wants to be assigned and recorded, from the courts of the Constitutional Court to the direction of the militia. Why, every time I ask questions, do these appropriate decrees take place on the eve of religious festivals? At the same time, when they go to church and show their devotion to religion, they are apparently baptized with one hand and they are doing dark things with the other. Why is this done in a thieving way when there is usually no Prime Minister and Chief of the Supreme Council in the Ukrainian House at that time? I would also like to ask our Prime Minister, Viktor Yanukovic, and the Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexander Moroz, why do you leave the Ukrainian house together when the thief is in the house? And one goes to Bratislava, and the other goes to Crimea? Can't we just split it up and go one way at a time? The situation gets worse, we don't get worse, and we can't keep hiding under someone else's demands. Whether anyone wanted to appoint or withdraw a prosecutor, a judge, or an army leader. I'd like to say, dear friends, that you and I have closed the Ukrainian house with the usual Ukrainian stick, but when there are thieves in the house, we need the Supreme Council to make such a castle so that no one in Ukraine can steal from anyone. Power is a blade. And if they're wrong to use them, you can hurt someone. At times, however, it is possible to cut your throat from indiscretion. Now it's been known that there's a command in the area on Tuesday to hold a district council meeting on Wednesday and to give approval to the last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u11	Thank you. Matthew conveys the word Samuel to Catherine, please follow Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u12	Honourable long - suffering citizens of Ukraine, the only calmer, the only undeniable carriers of democracy are law-abiding lovers of their land and their homeland. You are daily witnesses of how the Basic Law of Ukraine - the Constitution - is being violated. And so today, by his decree to the Council of National Security and Defence of the Heads of State Administrations, the President of Ukraine, and once again proved that he was spitting on the Constitution of Ukraine, he created this, you know, upper chamber of lords to support him so that they would say that everything was done in our country right. The shattered Constitutional Court has disgraced the District Courts, the trampled Attorney General's Office and the case is not in Medvedsk, the case is not in Piscoon, the case is that the guarantor of the Constitution is pounding daily and destroying the Constitution of Ukraine, that it destroys those sprouts of democracy that all of us and the entire people of Ukraine were so proud of. The authoritarian Fascist regime and today this is confirmed because a decree has been issued concerning the subordination of internal armies. Tell me what's missing from the President of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Security Service. Isn't the Ministry of Defense too small? Against whom does he gather all his strength? Please answer: Who will fight? Not with the national deputies of Ukraine, he will fight the people of Ukraine. Whose interests is the President lobbying? It is clear that Yushchenko is the guarantor of the interests of the United States in the territory of our country. He lobbies the country’s political, economic, and military interests. And that's why I want to address everyone who listens to us to the people of Ukraine. The President is trespassing on our land with you, on our homeland. You're from your grandfather, your great-grandfather, you're living on this earth, you're growing bread, you're giving birth to children, you're raising grandchildren. And will you and I allow our land to rest, or will we allow our methods of strength? I think, the honourable leaders of our Ukraine, let's go back to our bill on the beginning of the impeachment procedure for the President. We will not be forgiven by our people, our people, if we continue to allow the President of Ukraine to disgrace our country, to trample on the Constitution and fate of our people. I think we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u13	Thank you, Catherine Seed. The Valery of Matthew. Who? They could come out on their own, let's have Kalashnikov. Kuzmenko, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected fellow citizens! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions, National Unity Coalition. I address every member of the Supreme Council. Today, apparently, the hour has come when we must lay down our lives, our honor, and our conscience on the altar of Fatherland service. Regrettably, the last days and the direct involvement in the events that we have talked about have forced me to state that there is indeed a creeping coup d'état in the country. And unfortunately, today I no longer want to talk about those units of special purpose that we have disarmed with colleagues. I do not want to talk today about those units of State Security that are completely ignoring the concept of the Ukrainian Constitution and the notion of the status of the Ukrainian people's representative. I want to say that there is a real betrayal of the national interests of our Power today. Regrettably, people today who try to represent themselves as the sole perpetrators of the fates of the Ukrainian people are committing a coup d'état. They are not only violating the Constitution, they are actually committing acts today that will pervert the fate of the future millions of Ukrainians! Therefore, it is imperative for each of us today to stop ourselves in the same thought — in the thought that we are the only bearers of the honor and glory that our fathers and our grandfathers have given us! I am ashamed to say this morning that I was forced to address the officers of the State Security Service and explain to them that they are violating the Constitution of Ukraine and are being prosecuted in opposition to the people's deputies of Ukraine who are performing their functions! I am ashamed to say that today the Minister of Defence is intimidating our country by the fact that the military will follow criminal orders. I don't believe that. From the rostrum of the Supreme Council, I address every officer, every soldier, every flagpost: you are the honor, pride and glory of the Power! We will protect you, you must serve the Fatherland, it is up to you what Ukraine will be like tomorrow. Do not dishonor yourself, betray yourself in your hearts, or dishonor the future of our country by your conduct! I strongly request that every representative of the force structures be clearly guided by the Constitution of Ukraine. We have a legally elected Supreme Council, we have a government headed by Victor Fedorovich Yanukovic. We are legitimate, we are working for Ukraine and Ukraine, we are ready to serve, but not to serve, and we will protect our Family! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u15	Thank you. Please, Sergey Kuzmanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine, the distinguished Presidency! I recall the Bible, I remember Eclesiastus: “Nothing is new under this sun, nothing new under the moon.” And, really, yes. Let's look at the modern history of the world, and we'll see that it's all been there. It was in a number of African military coups, it was in the South American coups, it was in Chile, eventually. What prevents the President and his environment today, the forces behind him, from gaining absolute authority? They were hampered by the Supreme Council -- they're doing everything they can to stop the Supreme Council from being here. They were hampered by an effective Cabinet of Ministers -- they're doing everything they can to stop the Cabinet of Ministers. They were hampered by the Attorney General's Office, who is on the watch for the law -- they are now doing everything they can to get the Attorney General's office into the position of "whatever you choose". They were hampered by the judicial branch of power -- they're doing everything they can to take total power over this branch of power. So we now have a foundation for creating an absolute monarchy that is crammed under the Presidential Republic. What can be counterproductive? First of all, our clear position. This is the position of the Supreme Council, which has repeatedly expressed its support for the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on key issues. The second is not to give in to any questionable action that the President and his environment try to instill in us from time to time, and the so-called opposition. And the next thing you know, our job is to be clearly guided by law enforcement. It's very clear leadership, because last day especially showed that if there is such leadership, the coalition, the Cabinet of Ministers can provide a constitutional system in Ukraine. If this leadership is lost, then there will be trouble. Last but not least, I would like to turn to the military. I'd like to contact their parents, their sisters, their wives. Please contact your military relatives. Tell them they have a duty to the family, to the state, but not to the President. I'm asking you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u17	You see, as you started talking to women, that's how the microphone went off, and you notice that. We're out of time, we're out of time. Vasil Stepanovich, you'll take the floor to discuss the project and you can say it there. Dear colleagues, MPs. I understand the passions of the conversation that today is based on the very wrong actions of the President's Secretariat, the President's Institute and the President himself. We have dealt with this subject more than once, referring to the struggle for power. But it can be done either in a legal way or in a wrong way. In a legal way, it's a normal situation for any state, for any period. And we don't give up that way. But what we're doing today is an illegal, anti-constitutional way. I'd like us, Vladimir Mikhailovich, and you and I, in this case, to understand, we have a responsibility to make it really within the framework of the Constitution, on a legal basis, because that's the only way that there's a future for the state. Let's take a look at the general story of today's Colosseum. On April 2nd, the President of Ukraine issued the President's decree on the presidential election. This Order is unconstitutional in our belief, the President is looking for an explanation of that step by appealing to the Constitution, doubtful, but nevertheless, that this is a constitutional step, let's believe that he thinks so. Who can judge us in this situation, in this discussion, clearly only the Constitutional Court. The Supreme Council refers to the Constitutional Court with a motion, the Constitutional Court approaches the matter and once the President forgets that he has sworn in Brussels and Strasbourg that he will comply with any decision of the Constitutional Court trying to drop the trial, he issues a new Order by cancelling the previous one. Once again, the Constitutional Court begins its work as soon as it approaches the finish line in its work and understands that it may make a decision that is not suitable for those initiators of illegal Presidential decrees, as the pressure on the court begins, where in indecent form, the release of judges and so on. However, the court continues to work and it appears to be entirely on the ground that the court will still make a decision, if it does not conform to the President's intentions. Then they take strong steps, blackmail goes to court, provocative materials are picked up, published, joined by the Security Service, and so forth. In the end, the Public Prosecutor’s Office is required to follow instructions on criminal offences before the Constitutional Court. The courts of general jurisdiction are involved, including that this pressure on the court does not have to be explained to anyone, everyone understands that, but when it does not work, then the pressure on the prosecutor's office starts to change to appoint a prosecutor who will press the Constitutional Court, in fact, to prevent the issue from being resolved in the legal order. And all of this comes under the terms of the protection of the Constitution, of human rights, of democracy, of people, and so on. We all understand that this is, in fact, a pharisaic. And now that yesterday's events have confirmed that such a method will not pass, the anti-constitutional coalition is deepening, the President is issuing a decree on which we should express our thoughts, our opinion, by giving our position, giving guidance to the relevant structures. By subjugating the internal forces, which he has no right to do, because it is not a military situation in Ukraine, it is not an extraordinary mandate or an extraordinary period that, by the way, should be accompanied by the constant work of Parliament, and many things that are involved. We have just met with the Prime Minister with diplomats from all the countries accredited in our country. I had to call what's going on today, in one word, "path," and there's just no other definition here. Given that, contrary to the Security Service Act today and the Security Service unit, and you know what units it is, it is necessary to join the internal forces, and the internal forces are subordinated to the person who, in the third place, finally became the head of the State Security Service, who yesterday demonstrated the violation of the State Protection Service Act, committed a crime, let's speak bluntly, as reflected in the Criminal Code accordingly, and now this service is subject to it. I think that today and tomorrow will unfold accordingly, and everything will depend on us, as far as we are on the right footing, in keeping with the Constitution, in responding to these attempts of coup d'état, of usurpation of power, of the destruction of the constitutional system in Ukraine is our duty. I would like to ask you to be aware of the need to act in this way. There's some background information that I'm not talking to the press about, but I'm talking to you because the microphone is still on and it's going to have to be determined on this point, that there's going to be an attempt today by the appropriate units of the Supreme Council's takeover. I'd like to warn whoever's listening to us: please don't hit the windows and the doors, because it's state property, and we don't have fences, we don't have grates, we don't have anything else. We're a civil institution, a legal institution, and we're demonstrating our openness, including even those glass doors that are on the Supreme Council. We'll let you know if we have to, I'll come out to you. What do you want? If that's how you want to protect the Supreme Council, protect it, but at a certain distance, because we signed a treaty with the relevant militia structures, which it provides with the State Security Service within the framework of the State Security Service Act. Today, attempts to establish a specific order in the Attorney General’s Office will likely also be made. And I'd like our deputies everywhere to be seen, not to demonstrate physical strength or anything, there's no need for it, and actually the MP was chosen not because he had big muscles, but because he had a normal head. That's why I think we need to make use of this, and we need to follow up on all the processes, because the time is coming, I hope it's fast, and we're going to approach it when all the unconstitutional actions are going to have to be responsible for the Ukrainian Criminal Code formula. Anyone who today thinks he can act with impunity. The arguments on this account are enough for a lot of things. I think you understand that very well, and that's what each of you have. But the point is that we need to find ways to remove the power to continue the solution to this conflict. That is the possibility if there is a desire. We've proposed a schematic, it's reflected in the working group protocol. There are positions that have not yet been found in the working group itself, but they can find agreement here in the session room. Because the legal way to resolve this conflict is for the first time, the right of Parliament to dissolve itself or the inability to work through, in particular, the formation of powers of groups and deputies, or whatever legal settlement is needed. We are willing to consider this matter in accordance with the Rules and according to our authority, there are no other ways. Today, the Prime Minister has made a proposal to the President, let's meet with the Chief of the Supreme Council at three, because the Supreme Council will have to decide on these issues in one way or another. And from there it has been said, at least, to this day’s unwillingness to hold such a meeting. Why -- I'm just commenting. Because, for every step of the way, the unconstitutional President doesn't want to have a discussion, because it's obvious that I and the Constitution know well, and the legislation, because of my functional duties and the work that's been done here in the session hall for too many years. On the other hand, he obviously wants to demonstrate in the same way that there is no Parliament and how he will meet with it. Well, I'm not going to comment on this second, well, really, in legal terminology there's the word "nothing" argument, it's different in life using that word, but from a legal point of view, it really doesn't matter. I had a two-time conversation with the Secretary of the Security Council today, referring to what we've been working with him for a long time -- more than 30 years in common, and what I think he is, in fact, a sober man there, on that team. So he expressed his sincere desire for such a meeting to take place, and we found ways to resolve the conflict. Anyway, you're going to be informed about all the discussions about all the arrangements. But I want to say in advance, these discussions will not go beyond the Constitution, only within the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Everything else, it's unconstitutional, illegal, which means it's criminal. That's how I see it. Here's a summary of this and, rather, a preamble to the question that needs to be considered today. This is about the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 25 May 2007 on the introduction of a system of internal forces management in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine and the Ukrainian President's order of 25 May 2007 on the issue of State protection and measures to ensure the normal functioning of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. Registration number of this bill, 3577. I ask you to vote the question of including it in the order of the day. To 254. Decision taken. The author of the bill asks me how much closer I have to read it. It's on your hands, and everyone's been reading it, right? I'll read it because the journalists don't have this document yet, and I'm asking. I'm asking for your attention. I'm asking you, you know, when you can't hear each other when everyone wants you to be able to hear each other and make observations to each other. Take it easy. Thus, the determination of this content: “In view of the fact that the Presidential Order of Ukraine of 25 May of 25 May of the seventh year, No. 474, the further title of this Order, and the Order of the President of Ukraine of 25 May of the same year, are also given the title, and the measures taken to ensure the normal functioning of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, - also today, it is issued - these documents have been issued in violation of the requirements of articles 17 and 106 of the Constitution of Ukraine, Article 6 of the Law on the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, Articles 2, 24, 25 of the Ukrainian Security Service Act, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: First. Consider the Ukrainian Presidential Decree of 25 May 2007 No. 474 on the introduction of the internal military administration system in accordance with the Ukrainian Constitution, the Ukrainian President's Order of 25 May 2007 on the provision of State protection and of 25 May 2007 on measures to ensure the normal functioning of the Ukrainian Attorney-General's Office in such a way that they do not have legal consequences and are not subject to enforcement. [[Number 113]] [[Number 114]] The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine "On the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine" and other laws of Ukraine are implemented without delay. Third. Recommend to the commander of the internal forces. The Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine of Kitchen, the Administration of State Security of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine, refrain from carrying out and giving manifestly criminal orders or orders. [[You may feel that I am quoting 60 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine.]] Four. In connection with the conclusion of the Ukrainian Act on the Temporary Exercise of the Responsibility of Officials, which is appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine or the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the appointment of the President of Ukraine for the interim exercise of the duties of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service, to propose to the President of Ukraine, in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine, that he submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a nomination for the post of head of the Ukrainian Security Service. Fifth. To draw the attention of the President of Ukraine to the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine for the exclusive regulation of the organization of the organization of activities established in accordance with the laws of Ukraine of military formations and of law enforcement agencies, and to the indispensability of legal responsibility for giving expressly criminal orders or orders. “ I don’t know This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. I would like to offer you an addition immediately to the second point, in which, after the words “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to provide”, two dots should be placed, and then what I have read to complete with two more sub-items. That is to say, to ensure that the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine conducts its explanatory work among military personnel, members of the primary and the general staff of internal affairs bodies on the inadmissibility of violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine, to warn them of criminal responsibility for the openly carrying out criminal orders and other acts provided for in the Criminal Code of Ukraine. And the next item. “Ensure an enhanced security regime for the relevant units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the houses of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the administrative buildings of the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, the National Bank, the central executive authorities, other state bodies in the city of Kiev and the Kyiv City Public Administration, agreeing, if necessary, to carry out protection measures with the relevant authorities and officials.” Here's the addition to the second point and what I've read in general, I'd like to vote on the basis, and then I'd like to consider clarifying the wording if I need to. I'm asking you to support this proposal. For –256. Now, please, who wants to take part in the reasoning of their suggestions, recommendations, reasoning, and so forth, please write down. Sign up. And in private, please. They've traditionally been recorded by factions, now individually. Sign up, get the word. Simonenko. Behind him is Bugger. Who's going to be of the socialists7 you're going to be of the faction? Please, Lapin has the floor. Wait a minute, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u18	Come on, let him go.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u19	Let's start with "Regions," he's speaking, then. Speak, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u20	We had the first Lapin written down there, he gave me his word. Yes, please, if Simonenko is coming, let him go, I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u21	Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, I'd like to make some more suggestions on the project that we were given, because, in fact, Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich has completed paragraph two. I would generally consider it necessary to write a specific, separate point concerning the Minister of Internal Affairs, where to do so, my proposal, first, “The Minister of Internal Affairs of Tsushka: to ensure the maintenance of public order in Kiev with the involvement of the relevant authorities and departments of the Ministry; to promptly align them with the Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, according to the distribution of functional powers of action carried out by the Ministry of Planning and Implementation, which is to inform the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.” Because we're giving the Cabinet of Ministers a mandate, obviously to release the Minister of Interior, just to talk about the Cabinet of Ministers and the commander of the internal forces, that would probably be illogical. Second, “corresponding to the powers provided for in article 47 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, articles 16 and 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, to ensure that officials and officials of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs comply with the requirements of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the acts of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the orders of the Minister of Internal Affairs; to take immediate action in accordance with the legislation in the event of violations during the performance of their official duties”. [[Next — Internal Forces]] Thirdly, I propose: “to entrust the Minister of Internal Affairs to exclude cases of relocation of organs and departments in violation of the requirements of the Ukrainian Interior Ministry Act”. I would also consider it necessary to complete, as a paragraph, the first to paragraph three, or perhaps paragraph two to paragraph two, such warnings by studying the law on the interior forces of the Ministry of Interior of Ukraine. Note that the use of internal forces and internal forces to carry out any task is carried out only by order or agreement with the Minister of Internal Affairs. I'd like to think that this was also clearly stated, this rule that is in this law. Warn the commander of the internal forces about the personal responsibility for failing to comply with the internal forces of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the orders of the minister of internal affairs, and the requirements of this decree. And one more thing. It would obviously be necessary to note how much public order in Kiev today requires the Ministry of Internal Affairs to involve departments from the territories, so the Ministry of Finance will provide funding to the Ministry of Internal Affairs by directing funds to address the priorities of its activities according to the decisions of the Minister of Internal Affairs. I've got everything. I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u23	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Thank you. Okay, I get it. I wrote it down. Please, Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u24	Respectable colleagues, distinguished voters. The Communist faction will unanimously support the proposal to adopt this draft regulation determining the attitude of our Parliament to the key issues of the formation of power structures and the organization of power in Ukraine today. I would like to draw attention only to the fact that the need for this decision is also due to the fact that we today have to fight against the sudden and cynical approach that the President's Secretariat is carrying out these attempts to usurp power, discredit the authorities of the country as independent branches of government and, in grave violation of constitutional and legal requirements. As we reflect on the arguments that we have identified today in relation to this draft regulation, we have also considered that the internal forces are in line with article 2 on the question of, return, under the Police Act, to the structure of the Ministry of the Interior and are subordinated to the Minister of the Interior. I would like to draw attention to respect for our constituents and to the fact that this manic desire to submit to itself today is determined primarily by the fact that they have been insolvent in terms of the law, the rule of law, the desirability of enacting a law by the President, because these decrees do not have a mechanism for implementation, they do not serve the people of Ukraine, they determine the satisfaction of only a small group of people. And the manic desire to subject itself to the law enforcement system and administrations is, in my view, defined primarily by fear of responsibility, so to speak, those violations committed by the Secretariat and by the President personally to the people of Ukraine. They, these violations, are not random; they are systemic, criminal acts that will have to be held accountable. I would like to draw attention to another feature that has not been reflected in this draft regulation. As you know, the President issued today a decree appointing members of the RNB heads, i.e. governors, heads of district administrations, as well as, of course, the cities of Kiev and Sevastopol. This shows only one point: the practical stage of the usurpation of power is that the President has established an illegal, illegal upper chamber in Ukraine and is thus trying to usurp power in its entirety. I believe that such criminal actions by the President must be put to an end, and the Communist faction calls upon its colleagues from the Party of Regions and Socialists to intensify our work in collecting signatures of mistrust to President Yushchenko of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u25	Please, Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich instead of Bugajec.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u26	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Head, honourable deputies! Today, both the people of the steppe, and the inhabitants of the mountainous part of Ukraine, and the inhabitants of Lisbon and Polissa, are well aware that they have bankrupted the puppetry of the head of the state, his puppetry with the parties that gradually blocked the work of the Supreme Council, created a road situation in the state, going to those who, in order to block Parliament's work, covered their jobs in our hall with sheets painted under the national fold of Ukraine, who took the siege of electricity, President Yushchenko himself found himself under the broom that the opposition had prepared for the expulsion of parliament. It appears that the so - called Helsinki syndrome, when terrorists and victims become like one whole, is actually working together. For me, the situation is to be saved by a conscious, sober voice. He had already spoken at a meeting of the advisory board at the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, with the participation of the leaders of the councils of various levels, city leaders and local self-government, where dozens of people in the Unison strongly said one thing that the Head of State, by taking sides with the opposition that deliberately and purposefully destroys the system of power in Ukraine, undermined national, territorial, interfaith mouths, he in fact from the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution had turned into his wicked violator. From a good shepherd on a platter, he turned into an angry bear who spares nothing for a deceptive honey. This is particularly evident in the case of the destruction of the judges of the Constitutional Court, the direction of the Attorney General’s Office. On the outside, it looks like it's polite to say who I think is needed, and I'm changing it according to the quota, and unfortunately, people believe it. All of these illegal decrees, which have been issued today, are followed by the fact that the guarantor of the Constitution is fighting a destructive battle with the Constitution of Ukraine, with the constitutional institutions of the State. In fact, the guarantor went beyond the legal field of the Constitution, and I believe he violated the oath, and we have no moral right to continue to observe this lawlessness. I believe that it is now necessary to begin the process of impeachment of the President and to begin the suspension of his duties as President of Ukraine. In doing so, we will protect the Ukrainian people from unforeseen consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u27	I would ask those who speak more to touch the text of the document that we should accept. Yeah, yeah, I think so. And maybe more careful about honey, because this year is such a year that you might not be out of this swarm of honey, you know. So we need to act with caution now. But in this case it's clear that this is about extremely serious things. I would ask that we focus on how logical it is to build a document that would give the right orientations for the executive structures, in which case the mandate here is the Cabinet of Ministers. Garden, please, your opinion. Out of the way, please. It's Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u28	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Before I make any suggestions, I'll make some arguments. Yesterday, of course, with the acquaintance of Yushchenka Helletaj, the son-in-law, by the way, whom I honored Vasil Durdintz, took over the premises of the Attorney-General's Office during the day. There he was, and there he served as the head of the Security Service. What was he doing there, head of the Security Service? There he was and carried out the commission of Yushchenk directly and the head of the PNBO Ivy. The question is: Why was the Constitutional Court seized by strong methods? Why was it taken by force during the day and in fact, the premises and the change of power in the Attorney General’s Office? I can testify that last night, in violation of the Constitution and laws, the same Helette was doing in the Attorney General's office. These actions show that the President is committing the main violations: he is forcefully blocking the work of the Constitutional Court because he is afraid of what he has done. He has a desire to conquer the Attorney General's Office by force, he has an attack on the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and today he has issued his decree accordingly. And there's a huge attack on Minister Tsushka. We can't put him in for lunch. As far as Alpha is concerned, my colleagues have already spoken here. So from what I've said, I'm making these proposals. To make such a point in our decision. “Recommend to the Attorney General in order to verify compliance by the internal forces with the Ukrainian Interior Ministry Act.” It's an urgent problem. And I'm asking you to count with her. And the second. In this regulation in the fourth, in the fifth, I apologize, paragraph five reads: “To draw the attention of the President of Ukraine to the requirement of the Constitution of Ukraine”. It is appropriate to correct and write this: “To draw the attention of the President of Ukraine to the violation of it.” “At the violation of it”, these two words are added, “to break the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine” and continue to follow the text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u29	Please, Kravchenko Mikola.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u30	Cowchenko, the Communist faction. I agree with the draft order proposed by the People's MP Martinuk. We must respond somehow to the legal nihilism that comes from the President today. But I want you, your respectable colleagues, your respectable telephonies, your constituents, to ask if we are making too many decisions. And by one decision, we're not going to solve anything. Yes, it is a document to bring them to justice after we judge them so that they can be brought to justice on the basis of this document. But respectable colleagues! And yet we're taking orders, and yet tonight Alpha was preparing to take over the Attorney General's Office, and tonight, coming back last night, and tonight, there's information that they're going to take over the Attorney General's Office. Today, Stanik was tried to be arrested, he was invited to the Pschenički SBU, and the President plans to speak to the media tonight about the introduction of a state of emergency and so on. As far as we can make decisions, I propose a more radical way out of this situation. Why did it bother me tonight, I was leaving the Attorney General's Office somewhere around three o'clock at night, waiting for the Alpha storm, and we were working with the people who were protecting us there. So people said, well, the miners are finally coming, so they can sort it out. What's this all about? Let's turn to the people, let's declare a political strike, let's finally turn to big business, and let's say that they are primarily affected by the change of state that the President and his team are preparing today. What's going to happen is that they don't just sit around like they think it's Frost, Kravchenko or Sidorov, Ivanova. It's very serious stuff. Therefore, if we don't need Kiev today, I bow to the people of Ravo-Russia who had solved their problem there a week ago, the environmental problem they had, went out and solved the problem of power. Yes, that we, in the end, have financial resources, have the power, have the legislative power, that today we cannot turn to the people, declare an indefinite political strike and then sit at the negotiating table with the President. And so that we will, please accept Moroz, please accept Yanukovic or Simonenko, or so on, we will not solve the problem, they are talking to us from a position of power. If we show our strength.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u31	The last speech of Catherine Seminovna and I ask that you make proposals to the decision, do not acquiesce to each other.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u32	Alexander Alexandrovich! On the contrary, I would like to support and to say that the ruling is truly timely and timely, respected colleagues of mine, Nikolai Vasiljevic, we simply have to make statements and regulations, because we see that by decrees the President of Ukraine violates the constitutional field. We have to warn all who, however they should comply with these decrees, do not comply with criminal orders. I support, in particular, the proposal concerning the mandate of the Minister of the Interior of Ukraine to work with the staff. Indeed, not only is it the personal composition of the Ministry of the Interior directly, but it is also all vertical, because, among other things, we have very serious problems in this regard. What's more, Alexander Alexandrovich, do not be critical. As a woman and as a mother, I want to address the officers: “Dear officers! Many of you have gone through the top of Afghanistan and Chernobyl, you've looked death in the face a thousand times, you've met a gang shot a thousand times, you've met with eyes on death. And I think that today, the parliamentary majority, the government majority, we believe, in any case, that the words: honour, courage, love for the Family, that responsibility to the people, and loyalty to the oath of the people of Ukraine are not simple words, it is not a simple sound for you. Today's time has come for each of us, and each one of us has to go through his soul and realize whether you have the rod that determines your loyalty and love to the Family, your loyalty to the oath, or he's missing, or you're just short meat, or you're just a jellyfish. Dear officers, I think I am of all the women of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and most of them, and I ask you to do everything you can to protect constitutional order in our State. I think it will be absolutely right for us to take this decision now so that tomorrow, Alexander Alexandrovich, it can be published, a paragraph can be written down, and in general we have it in the Rules, published in our Voice of Ukraine, in our media, I reiterate that this is Parliament's forced reaction to the anti-constitutional actions that the President of Ukraine is carrying out today and his environment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u33	We've concluded the discussion. I'm asking you if you have any suggestions. Let's make a concrete, concrete proposal. Please. Please, let's go to the text, which suggestions please speak. The sand. Go to the rostrum, please, it'll be quicker.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u34	Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Reverend Alexander Alexandrovich, great colleagues! In the third paragraph of the ruling following the words “to recommend to the commander of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine the management of the Ukrainian State Security Authority and the Ukrainian Security Service” to add “generals, officers, flags, sergeants and ranks” to the text. Why do I have to add that because I've had a conversation with various of our colleagues who are taking part in the protection of the Supreme Council, they say we're not going to carry out orders that are clearly criminal, that is, shoot and so on. As for the rest, they do not know what order will come, so let them, each one of them in all vertical sense feel full responsibility, because no one is obliged to carry out these orders, but another nuance, not knowing the laws, does not absolve them of legal responsibility, is article 68 of the Constitution. Let everyone know and choose today, he's for the democratic Constitution or he's for usurping power and let everyone make a choice for themselves. So I insist on number three, I'll give you how to add it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u35	Yes. I don't know. Do you have a supplement? Alexandrovska, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u36	I'm out of town. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. I support Popesco's proposal because there is indeed a constitutional rule that says that officials are only required to act within the framework of laws and the Constitution. So here's the third article, Alexander Alexandrovich, I think we've formulated not exactly correct recommendations, and so on, to refrain from carrying out and giving clearly criminal orders or orders. I believe that this list of officials, the need to comply with the requirements of article 60 of the Constitution of Ukraine, has a direct bearing on them, very clearly and specifically. If they're illiterate and unlettered, I've already said, let them read the Constitution, study, but article 60 has a direct bearing on them, and I have to make a reference here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u37	Wait a minute. Vladimir Mikhailovich, without you, I will not put to the vote. Wait. Oleg Ivanovich. Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u38	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of the Regions. I would like to emphasize, Alexander Alexanderovich, that you have made a very good point and complement to point two. But I would like to ask you to complete this paragraph with such an element, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to ensure that the Ukrainian National Deputies can carry out explanatory work among the members of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Department of State Security, the Ukrainian Security Service and the exercise of parliamentary control in the parts and divisions under its control. What does this have to do with anything? Dear Alexander Alexander, we have clashed with the Ministry of Security in accordance with the communication with the Minister of Defense, he is afraid that the people's deputies are exercising parliamentary control and are communicating directly with the special forces. I think that's the time for the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u39	I'm asking you, Oleg Ivanovich, this is the specialty. We should not confuse sinning with the righteous one. We make a decree that directs the appropriate officials to specific actions, but we do not close the possibility or collapse the control functions of Parliament, including the performance of our duties by the specific deputies. Let them go, let them do the appropriate explanatory work, that is. So today, to write in an item that concerns the Ministry of Internal Affairs, what MPs are supposed to do is absolutely unnecessary. I'm asking you to pay attention to that. This is the last sentence of Vladimir Mikhailovich and we will begin to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u40	Thank you very much, Alexander Alexanderovich. Vladimir Zaplatinski, head of the Committee on Economic Policy. Paragraph three, I respectfully refer to the proposal: “Recommend attention”, but I propose to write this paragraph as “to warn the commander of the interior forces of the Ministry.” And so on, and so forth, in the text, “on criminal responsibility for the execution and giving of manifestly criminal orders or orders”. I think it's right and more responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u41	We'll vote now. I'm talking about the points that have been made and about which decisions have to be made. I'd like you to be careful, the authors of the proposals. Well, first of all. Lapin, or what's his last name? No, did you do the first one? The first sentence was to include many items from the document that you have given out, which was prepared in the Cabinet of Ministers, but for another purpose. It was an offer for the Cabinet itself and according to his authority. Therefore, the first point, which obliges the minister to report to the Cabinet of Ministers, the deputy ministers and so forth, is absolutely unnecessary because it is not a function of Parliament. I'd like you to pay attention to that, please. Then, secondly, his second suggestion regarding the internal armies and the implementation of the relevant law, the enforcement of the decision by the servicemen of their functions is provided in paragraph three. We're going to react, we're going to edit it now, and we're going to take it down, or we're going to take it down. With regard to the redeployment of organs and departments in violation of Ukrainian law, we are already talking about the need to comply with the laws, as this paragraph foresees. Therefore, it is not necessary to write separately in this decree. We, once again, are not the Cabinet of Ministers and not the Ministry of Internal Affairs. We are the Parliament of the Powers. And here's a point that says -- to take into account that the use of internal forces and internal forces to carry out any task is done only by order or agreement with the Minister of Internal Affairs -- I think this should be written as the second paragraph to the third point that applies to internal forces. This is a truly important point that properly shapes the position of officials. Finally, in paragraph 5, the President's attention should be focused on violating the Constitution's requirement to continue to follow the text. The word “infringement” has indeed been made in the issuance of appropriate decrees. Now the third, the fourth, and the third, I'm sorry, those two additions to the second point that I read are supported, that's how I understood it. In the third paragraph, write it in such an editorial form: “Warning the Commander of the Interior of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the management of the Office of State Protection of Ukraine and the Security Service of Ukraine, generals, officers, all military personnel on responsibility for the execution and issue of clearly criminal orders or orders.” I'm asking you, we'll edit it like you said. With these comments and suggestions in mind, I would ask that we accept this document. Please support this proposal. For 259. Decision taken. Now a few answers to a question before Adam Ivanovich prepares himself too. For the suggestions that were made here and asked the MPs to approach me. First of all, the Cabinet of Ministers is looking at this issue as well. He's holding an emergency meeting. There had already been a report by the Minister of Justice, which mentioned that the President had issued more than 60 illegal, unconstitutional decrees in support of the report. Let's move on. There were questions about the thought of the diplomatic corps that we had only met before. That's what I mean. The situation in Ukraine needs to be resolved in a legal manner, respecting the court’s decisions and using the way of political consultations and negotiations. Next. I had a conversation tonight with the acting Head of the Security Service, Valentin Navejchenek, and the head of the Alpha unit of this service, Sergey Chali, about the second and third nights, where they confirmed that their services would operate exclusively within the framework of the law and the Constitution, and would not resort to any violation of these basic documents for Ukraine. I'm reporting this on purpose because it really was in the presence of MPs, so that no one would be tempted to talk about the fact that these officials didn't know that this recommendation was given to them. And finally, about one of Mikola Vasilovich's performances. Parliament cannot call for strike; it can be done by teams themselves; it can be done by trade organisations. We respect that right. It's written in the Constitution, by the way. But this is really not a matter for Parliament. And I want to say one more thing to our opponents. The economy is too expensive -- that's how it's made sense. If part of the branch of power today, and more faithfully, the institution of power has a maximum of two months of dealing with what it has no right at all to do, the organization of elections, and not yet in a constitutional way, they don't need economics, they don't need social issues, they need power. The power fights for power is already an axiom that has been confirmed many times over the years of independence. This is to conclude the consideration of the matter. Now, Adam Ivanovich please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u42	Dear colleagues, according to the media, there will be another anticonstitutional action tomorrow in the country. There will be two meetings tomorrow between BUTU and our Ukraine, where they will consider the question of the composition of the National Deputies. I would like to inform both the people's deputies and our listeners that this will be done illegally. First, indeed, article 81 of the Constitution provides for Ukraine. “In the event of the absence of a Ukrainian national deputy elected from a political party to a parliamentary faction of this political party or the exit of the Ukrainian national deputy from such a faction, its authorization shall be suspended in time on the basis of law by decision of the higher governing body of the relevant political party.” [[political party constituency]] [[political party constituency]] Once again, I remind everyone and those who will hold a convention tomorrow, the law required by article 81 of the Constitution, does not exist. So they have no right to deprive MPs who will write them statements about getting out of factions. That's one thing. The other one. Unfortunately, our walkers have been so separated from the Supreme Council that they have forgotten how they should act by those deputies who want to get out of factions. For them, I am reminded of article 60 of the Rules, which speaks of the introduction, of the exit from the registered MP’s faction, the National MP reports in writing to the chairman of the plenary session. [[Part Three]] The written report of the People's Deputies on the entry into one or the other MP's faction agrees with the head of this faction, and the report of exclusion from the MP's faction makes the chairman of the plenary at the request of the head of the MP's faction." That is, before considering the meeting, we need to come to the meetings of the Supreme Council, announce that they are making an application, and that the presiding officer at the meeting should announce that John, Sidorov, Peter is coming out of the faction, then wait for the law required by the Constitution, hold the assembly, and at the assembly to deputize the parliamentary powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, one more. The questions, more faithfully, are three questions that put the deputy in the note. Why do we fail to give an appropriate signal to society, to the world community, that the President of Ukraine is the main violator of the Constitution? The second question. Why isn't a temporary special commission created after the President's so-called poisoning. Is he afraid, or is there any material in the Attorney General's Office, or is there none, that we should give an appropriate signal to society? And isn't it time to talk about whose will is being exercised today by power in Ukraine, I mean by the President's Institute? So what I'm saying is, all these things have a basis. Please prepare suggestions that are appropriate, and in the proper procedure, we will be sure to accept them here. Please. I'm telling you. After the conclusion of this meeting, I request the full representatives of the factions. Now, wait. I didn't name your last name, by the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u44	No, it's not. I didn't call. I'm going to ask for a stenographer. I'm asking you again. Leaders, responsible factions will meet on the third floor to advise us on Parliament’s activities in the coming days. And two more lines, please, Peter Mikolaiovich and Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u45	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to inform you about the problem Adam Ivanovich said. As members of the working group on the harmonization and preparation of amendments to the Electoral Law for the so-called early elections, we have faced this problem, understanding that it must be resolved. Thus, I consulted with the judges of the Constitutional Court on the previous convening of the judges of the Constitutional Court with regard to the decision they had taken, if I am not mistaken, in 2002 concerning 300 people's deputies, that is the rule of the Constitution. I inform you, my dear colleagues, that this rule has been adopted under a mixed electoral system, which is major and proportional. And the judges of the Constitutional Court have adopted this rule, i.e. the existence of 300 deputies only to return, only because the majority system could jeopardize the organization of Parliament's work. Under a proportional system, we inevitably elect 450 deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u46	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u47	And if there's a proposal or a situation that Adam Ivanovich said about, due to the complexity of a political party's powers, the re-establishment of lists, I'll let you know that these percentages are shared among those who remain in Parliament, and that's how 450 people's deputies are restored. It is you who must know what will really happen after they have held these conventions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u48	Well, maybe that's the kind of offer you need, you know. Please, Mikola Vasilovich Kravchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u49	Alexander Alexandrovich, maybe you misunderstood me. What's this all about? It is a constitutional norm, a political strike, a variety of economic, political and so on. That is why I am using the rostrum of the Supreme Council to address the political parties that are standing here today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u50	I got it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u51	I meant that the parties would turn to the people, to trade unions, in order to resolve the issue, namely, the political issue, not the economic question, but the political issue. I asked you to understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-25-m1.u52	Now it's clear. Thank you. I ask the authorized factions to rise on the third floor, and all the deputies to keep in contact with the factions' secretaries and factions' heads. Please. I declare the evening session closed.
