ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u1	I ask your attention, prepare for registration, and then I'll take a message and we'll go on in the daytime. A roll call is being made. [[16:10:19]] 255 national deputies registered. The evening session shall be declared open. I apologize for the delay because I had a conversation with the Secretary-General of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Vanderlinden. By lunchtime, more faithfully, the president of the Vanderlinden Parliamentary Assembly had a conversation with General Secretary Terry Davis before lunch. They are concerned about the situation in Ukraine, the escalation of tension, the interference with Parliament by the executive branch. It is hoped that we will bring all the events into constitutional order and initiate consideration of Ukraine, of the situation of this 17 number at the Paris meeting. Ready to consider convening a special session or a PARJE meeting to consider the situation in Ukraine. I believe that this does not remove from us the obligation to fight for the observance of the Constitution by all authorities, but it is a good signal to society for the fact that the Constitution, the basic law, provides for proper respect for itself and its unconditional adherence to all the structures of power. Here's some information. It is now proposed to consider the Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Land Code. [[on the reduction of the removal of particularly valuable reserves and national natural parks]] Another 22.03 decision has been taken to deal with this issue in a simplified way, and I remind you that it is specific. There would be a report by Deputy Bespali Boris Jakovic, who is obviously in a protest, and the co-reporter is Bessenko Valeriy Fedorovich, head of the Committee on Agriculture Policy, Land Relations. And I'd like to offer him a word. On the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u2	Honourable Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, respected TV viewers, the committee at its meeting reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law on Change to Ukraine’s Land Code on Limitation, Disposal of Particularly Valuable Lands, Reserves and National Natural Parks, introduced by the National Deputies of Ukraine, Golub, Bespalim. Registration No. 2312 of 11.10, which is proposed to amend part two, article 150 of the Ukrainian Land Code and prohibit land removals from the areas of natural reserves, conservation zones, biosphere reserves and national natural parks that are held in public or communal property for any purpose. Considering that, in accordance with article 150 of the Ukrainian Code of Land, the land indicated refers to particularly valuable lands, the removal of which is only possible under the consent of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, so in each particular case the Supreme Council of Ukraine will decide whether to delete them, resulting from a specific situation, the adoption of the relevant legislation, the regulation, that is. However, there may be a need to remove the redemption of such lands, for example, for social needs. So an absolute ban on their removal by making such changes would lead to an impossible situation. Moreover, its name does not match the substance of the proposed changes. We have the removal limit written down, while the proposed standard prohibits removal. In view of the above, the committee proposes that the bill be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u3	Of course, questions. Huh?Oh, my God! No questions asked here, it's a shortcut procedure. Please have a seat. Who would like to say "yes" or "against" write down. But I would have meant that the authors -- the Bespallian and the Dove -- would have made a statement because they were introducing the project. However, the record is being recorded. They want to speak: Alexeyev and Jaduch. Alexeyev wants to hand over Samuel, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u4	Dear colleagues! With all due respect to you, I can't agree with the committee's conclusion, it's extremely impossible for you to do that. This is to be warned of, and the law is just necessary. And it's not a restriction, it's a ban. You go through, please, and look around our national parks, through our large reserves, look, please, what is happening there, as the hairy hands have actually gotten to our reserved lands. And that's why I think this bill should be adopted. At the same time, I would like to point out that the drafters of the bill should have foreseen that there should be, in addition to the protected lands, a band that would restrict the land used to carry out the agricultural work and land-preservation, and there, as before, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine foresees reparation. Because there's really no fertilizer, there's a lot of objections. And that's why I don't think we can in any way, and I'm talking to the largest faction of our leadership -- the faction of the Ukrainian regions -- we can't, it's our national acquisition, because we're moving money to the Baturin capital, the Hethman capital, and wherever it is that it's happening. And here are the natural conservation lands, they need to be protected, they need to be left to our children and grandchildren. And so I would very much like all factions not to vote for rejection. To vote for the Law in the first reading, and let's work on it so it doesn't hurt the business, but so that we can do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u5	I just wanted to notice. We have equal factions, we don't have a controlling faction, we have factions equal and we respect everyone. It's just a reflection that's ancient, so you have to think about it. Please, Jadushka, get out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u6	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, Vasil Yaduha, Party of Regions, Hmelnicki. I don't think I'm going to reveal to anyone the secret that today in Ukraine the earth is really a national acquisition and there's a fundamental wealth that concerns so many people today. [[in cages]] I'd like to give you an example, when I'm driving through the regions of our hops, I see that even the land that's been standing for five to seven years has grown with weeds, weeds, and today there are potential investors who are coming in, they're investing, they're blowing up, there's a prospect in this plan. But special attention is, of course, to particularly valuable lands. I fully agree with the previous speaker, although I am a representative of the agrarian committee, where I did not support the proposal that this bill should be rejected. Yet especially valuable to the earth, they are specific to the earth, they have their purpose. How can you, for example, be at the Hmělnice, where water supplies are provided? Water is passed to the city of Hmelnicky and provides water to 300,000 people, altering their use, or limiting their use. And this, of course, will be another attempt by these countries in some way to "privatise". So what I'd like to say is that this bill provides for the deletion of article 150 of the Earth Code, which sets up a list of land that can be removed for the construction of roads, electricity lines and so on, including the added conservation zones, the biosphere reserves of national natural parks. I fully support what these countries should do, these territories cannot be used for any economic activity that is contrary to their purpose. Therefore, I propose to support and adopt the bill as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u7	Discussions have taken place and proposals from different factions have been made on the basis of this bill. I'm voting on this proposal. [[16:20:27]] For 247 Decision taken. In conclusion, it's a good bill because it first regulates the relationship between different laws or responds to different bills, especially with regard to the natural reserve. But in any case, only the Supreme Council decides to take such lands away. Thus, we add another insurrection to disintegrate the earth. Draft Decision on Enhancing Property Protection for Creative Associations in Ukraine. This question was initiated by the national deputy of Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich. I'm out of procedure. Please, Catherine Samuel has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u8	Oh, what's up. Aah! Ouch! I'm sorry. Thank you, Alexander Alexander. We're all very nervous about our creative associations, we're very anxious about the talents of Ukraine. And I think this is exactly what our coalition is doing to nurture them. And we're here to do everything we can to make sure that the property of creative communities is safely protected. But that's the question. Here we had tears about what we had destroyed, we destroyed culture in six months, we destroyed spirituality, and so on. Let the great one, as Yavorowski thinks, come out to the rostrum, let him report this law. And without him, I have an offer not to consider the matter. What is more, I have no idea how the head and deputy of the committee of heads can't show up for the consideration of their bill to the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u9	It's a good thing your last word didn't go on the air or the transcript. So that's how I understood your proposal -- to take this question off the table until there are reporters, right? That is, we do not take it off at all, but until the interviewers appear and fulfill their responsibility. Is there another offer? Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u10	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Well, the fact that BUT has been idle for a month now, "Our Ukraine" is a party of wars that goes around the state account, where beer goes, it doesn't make sense. It's on their conscience, yes, they're idle, they've been, they've been, they've been, they'll be. But on the other hand, I want to touch on the essence of the matter. And there's a representative of the Ministry of Culture, a deputy minister, let him say, if there really is a good grain here, both for Yavorivsky's vanity and for his insatiableness, and when only in the language of melette that he's willing to help people, and actually he's not doing anything. It's all about making things worse. Therefore, I will ask the representative of the Ministry of Culture from the Cabinet of Ministers to say, if there is any good grain here, we are ready to support it. Because of Yavorivsky's idleness, we must not suffer directly from creating spikes, yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u11	Well, it's an argument like a union, creative associations aren't to blame, either, that they're not able to stand up for those who have to stand up for them. But there is a procedure for considering the bill. He is not the subject of the legislative initiative, the deputy minister. We could ask him. But a specialist from this committee has to report. Give Bulby a word, he'll make it all right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u12	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. I don't think we need to look at such drafts and take them out of consideration at all. I came to the cash register today, and there's a whole bunch of thugs. Where they were, I didn't see them for a month, but they got the money right. Let's just say people think that these people's deputies are walking. And the laws they're preparing may be necessary, but we're not going to consider them. There are other bills to be considered. Let's look at them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u13	So you didn't know if they were giving up or getting money? There is a suggestion to move the matter to a later stage. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[16:25:47]] For 246 The question is being considered. There is now an offer to return to previously unsupported issues. They have been working on, in particular, the draft Law on the Fundamental Principles for the Elimination of Lands of Private Property Rights, already in the second reading. Bevenko Valeriy Fedorovich will report to him. And I invite him to the rostrum. You don't accept it on March 22. And then it was decided to turn to him again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u14	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. In today’s market-based land relations, ownership of land cannot be absolute and must also perform social functions, as is done in other countries in order to ensure the realization of the social interests of citizens, the State, and the territorial communities. It is to solve these problems that we are now considering in the second reading and adoption of which meets the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and is provided for by the final provisions of the Ukrainian Code of Land. The bill was adopted in the first reading on January 11, this year. The bill is complemented by taking into account the comments of the Ukrainian national deputies, 45 included, four counted, 12, rejected 23 proposals. Most of the comments referred to the title of the bill, the basic terms, the basis for the ransom of executive powers and local self-government, the order and financing of the redemption of land, and so on, but the draft of the bill was adopted in the first reading. During the period since the plenary session on March 29th of the second reading of the bill, consultations were held with experts and national deputies on the bill, which is proposed: the first, the title of the bill, which reads: "To Buy Land Private Property for Social Needs and Reasons for Social Need". The other one. Article 13 of the article 13: “The solution of disputes over the redemption of land for the social needs of the judiciary. In the event of a buy-out of the land with residential buildings, buildings, buildings or plantations, if the owner or owners of the building or building or plantation do not agree with the decision to ransom it for social purposes or if the parties do not reach an agreement on the purchase price or other terms of the purchase of the land within the time limit established by the law, the executing authority or the local government shall apply to the court for the redemption of the land. In the event of a land-free redemption for a specific social need, the decision of the executing authority or the local government regarding the ransom price may be challenged by the owner in a court of law. If, within 60 days of the end of the time limit set by this law to resolve the issue of the redemption of land, the executive or local self - government authorities have not appealed to the court for the purpose of protecting social interests and their legal rights, the decision on the redemption of land is null and void. In line with these suggestions, I propose to adopt the bill in second reading and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u15	I emphasize that this is the procedure of the second reading. On March 22, we considered this procedure. And after the Parliament had re-emerged on the issue, two amendments were made, two clarifications that the reporter had just said. So I have every opportunity to come to you with such an offer. The amendments, and more than 80, 84 if I am not mistaken, do you have any comments regarding the summary made by the committee regarding the consideration or disregard of these amendments? None. Then the new name of the law must be put to the vote. And I'd like to make up my mind about that, because it's really, really specific, more specific right now, it's responding to the essence of the bill itself. I'm voting on a motion to rename the law according to a proposal made by the committee. [[16:31:03]] For 212 That's the thing. I would like to draw attention to this detail: Unsettling these issues is impossible, they must be determined either so or so. Because the legal vacuum in this regard leads to the abuse of colossal ones. If we're talking about removal, then we should. Let's set it up. I'm asking you, just one minute, don't convince me! So let's stop at the name “removal”. The “removal” remains, not the ransom, the removal. But the forms of removal may vary, including through the ransom system. Please. That's the thing. I'm telling you again that the price of land is not determined by law. Team, team, team, team, team, team, team, The price of the land is not determined by this law. Of course, compulsory removal if there is a social need. We need to take the road, we need an electric line, we need to build, let's say, an administrative facility or anything with compensation for the costs that are anticipated. Actually, it's about. One minute, about a name that doesn't pass as a proposal. Then there is a proposal to vote with an old name the whole draft law, taking into account all the changes that the commission accepts and which are recommended to you for consideration. I'm betting on an old-named vote on this whole project. Please. [[16:33:15]] For 225 The decision is not taken. Then I'd like to go back to work. You go into the faction, talk to the faction members, and convince them that one way or another is to do it. I'm voting on a motion to move this issue to the next sessional week. [[16:33:56]] For 227 Decision taken. Thank you. There's an offer to go back to. Sorry, to include in the agenda and to make a decision on two projects: 3251 – amending article 23 of the Ukrainian State Service Act and 3216 – on the regulation on the development of a state-wide toxic waste management programme. [[on the age limit]] I'm putting this motion to a vote. Turn them on and see today. Please. [[16:34:52]] For 246 Decision taken. From the first question, the draft Law on Amendments to Article 23 of the Law on State Service is defined by the Deputy Chief of Public Service, Tkak Vladimir Dmitrović. He's given the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Today, there are a number of systemic problems in the public service. But the largest of these is human resource efficiency, particularly in the higher authorities – district government administrations, which has resulted in the loss of government officials of skilled and highly qualified employees, the deprofessionalization of the public service. That is the situation that prompted the General Service to initiate changes to article 23 of the Law on State Service, the basic position of which is to assign the above - mentioned subjects of authority to positions of civil servants assigned to the first, second, category of persons over the age set out in part one of this article. That is, the appointment of which is carried out by the Supreme Council, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers. It states that the general term of service of appointed persons cannot be higher than 60 years for women and 65 years for men, as it is supposed, for those who work in the public service and whose term is extended in a specified manner. The project focuses on the involvement and use of experienced and highly qualified personnel in the authorities, restoring stability and the future in their work, and improving the efficiency of management activities. The adoption of this law will not require additional costs from the state budget. He was accepted without notice by the relevant ministries. Taking into account what we have put forward, please, honourable national MPs, to adopt the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Article 23 of the National Service Act as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u17	Thank you. The question is to the reporter? Please, Chukmasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u18	Dear rapporteur, I asked you this question when we met, and I also want to resound it for the hall. Today, there are a number of laws, such as the Telecommunications Act, where the functions of the national commission include “officer – 65 years of age”. I mean, there's already a rule in certain regulations. Moreover, this commission employs women who are now over the age of 60. Is this going to be settled by this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u19	Thank you. In principle, the five-year extension rule is already provided for in the State Service Act, which is being implemented, an extension of acceptance with the Chief of Staff. Here, it allows for the same five years of appointment and dismissal of civil servants. So that's the same term, but it's 5 years extra for women and 5 years for men. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u20	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u21	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Vladimir Dmitrovitch, there is no doubt that the adoption of this law will primarily contribute to a significant improvement in the efficiency of governance and public service as a whole, because these are exactly the qualified personnel that will continue to work for the benefit of the State. But please tell us that there are so many things around this problem, not even talk, but gossip, as we now have people who could have stayed outside the state service today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u22	Thank you for asking. This is the question of certain categories of civil servants, the first and the second categories. So these are the positions, if you say so, most at risk. It's really wisdom, it's experience, it's authority. There are certain circumstances that stop them. If the brothers, you know, are extremely rich, wise, intelligent, talented leaders and in principle, who could really be used in the public service, for the benefit of our country.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u23	Please don't give out the question, you tell me the number, he asks for the number, how many people are there. Is the Service Working or Not?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u24	Dear Alexander Alexander! It's called that number of people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u25	Approximately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u26	About 100, 200, 300?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u27	No, it's the first, the second category, it's not that much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u28	But there are many who have made some changes over time for five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u29	About how many are these, what are the categories of people?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u30	I think it is. If you can say that, but I think it's more of these people, but clearly I'm not ready to tell you, Alexander Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u31	Yeah, he doesn't know. That's the answer, I don't know. Please, no more questions? None. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u32	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u33	What will Victor Mikolaiovich Tikhov, chairman of the State Building Committee, say? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u34	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! At the request of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz, the Committee discussed at its meeting on 14 March 2007 a draft of the Ukrainian Act amending article 23 of the Ukrainian Law on State Service, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which provides for the appointment, if necessary, of the first and second categories of positions of civil servants appointed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers, after reaching the age of the border, to remain in the service of the State, leaving the general term of their stay on the public service no more than 65 years for men and 60 years for women. The chief scientific expert at the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Apparatus thinks that the first reading of this bill can be adopted on the basis of the comments made in the draft. During the discussion of this issue, at a committee meeting, most national deputies generally agreed with the stated reasons for supporting the legislative initiative, while making some observations and suggestions for the bill, which concerns the general social need to preserve highly qualified and experienced professionals in positions, and other categories of positions of civil servants, not only the first and second categories, but also the positions of local self-government. Preservation in an unwarranted bill, from a legal point of view, of differences in age requirements, of service between female and male employees, thus transforming the right of women to pension benefits into a mandatory basis for dismissal, as well as of underestimation of the marginal age of service to the established general age legislation, of retirement. The need to specify the legislation that has been applied is a condition of necessity in which an appropriate appointment is to take place. Taking into account what has been said, the committee decided that 11 of the 18 national deputies present voted in favour to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Act amending article 23 of the Law on State Service. Registration No. 3251, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, accepted as a basis. The committee is asking for the support of this decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u35	No questions asked, is there a question to Viktor Mikolaiovich? None. Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to make a statement on this subject, please write it down. Well, it's not a very difficult question, but there's hardly any need for a special discussion here, but if anyone wants to make a statement, please. Bondarczuk Ivan Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u36	Dear Alexander Alexander, honourable colleagues, I think we need to support this bill, because we need to legitimize the rule that regulates age restrictions on public service, because by way of, there, individual permits, this is practically resolved. That's why we have to legitimize this rule -- that's the first. And with regard to the need for its implementation, both in the report and in the co-reports, the groundwork was made as convincing as I am. It should be borne in mind that this standard meets European standards, as it were. So if we are constantly focused on the implementation of European standards and standards, this should also be introduced. Recently, we have raised the price for the rectors of higher education institutions. That's why I think we need to vote in favour of this bill right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u37	So we have the right to vote on this project. I'll put it to a vote. [[16:45:59]] For 245 Decision taken. Let's just, like, talk. It's a good thing that we're adapting our legislation here to European legislation, but it should be borne in mind that in Europe retirement age is much larger than ours. So that's where these age frames fit. However, the law is passed. And I think we've made the right decision, because we need to put in place what is being decided by the subjective order today, on account of personal decisions there. And it needs to be provided for by law. A draft regulation on the development of the National Toxic Waste Management Program, registration number 3216, is being considered and reported by Zac Alexander Viktorovich, Ukrainian National Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u38	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished people's deputies. As a result of the development of large amounts of toxic wastes, the problem of environmental security in the State has become particularly acute. The gap between the progressive accumulation of toxic wastes and their disposal and disposal threatens to deepen the environmental crisis and exacerbate the socio-economic situation. More than 100 million tons of toxic waste are produced annually in the country's enterprises. The first, second and third classes, according to European standards, account for more than 3.5 million tons. In Ukraine, the number of enterprises where toxic waste is recorded exceeds 2.5 thousand. The total amount of toxic waste accumulated is almost 4.5 billion tons. The amount of education is dominated by toxic wastes, which contain heavy metals, such as waste from mining and colour industry, chemical industry, galvanic machinery production. A separate group of toxic wastes is not suitable for the use and use of chemical plant protection products. These wastes are distributed throughout Ukraine and are often in unfavoured premises or on open sites. Much of the toxic waste storage facilities are highly hazardous to the environment due to the migration of toxic components by infiltration into groundwater and surface waters, by wind, animals and human activities. The main environmental and socio-economic results of the development and adoption of the State-wide toxic waste management programme should be: Reducing the harmful effects of toxic wastes on the environment and human health, cleaning the territories from toxic wastes. Gradual minimization of waste production, production of additional commodities through the disposal of toxic wastes, reduction of areas, land plots identified for landfills and landfills of toxic wastes, creation of additional jobs in the treatment of toxic wastes. Dear colleagues, at the end of 2005, the Cabinet of Ministers reported to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the status of implementation of legislation on waste management. As a result of its consideration, the Supreme Council of Ukraine recommended that the Cabinet of Ministers develop and submit before 1 March 2006 a draft law on the State General Programme for the Treatment of Toxic Wastes by 2010. This recommendation by the Supreme Council of Ukraine has not been implemented by the previous Government. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management supports the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine on the development of a State-wide toxic waste management programme and recommends the adoption of a draft regulation as a whole. It should be added that, in order to carry out significant calculations and harmonizations of the project, the State-wide programme treatment of toxic wastes with the relevant authorities would take time. I therefore request that the draft regulation amend the date of submission of the programme to the Supreme Council of Ukraine from 1 May to 1 November 2007. I also draw your attention to the fact that the concept of “toxic waste” is specific, which underlines the toxic properties of these wastes. In view of this, I propose to replace the concept of “toxic waste” with “hazardous wastes” in Ukrainian with hazardous waste, which is synthesized and collected. This is evidenced by the definition of hazardous wastes in the Waste Act of Ukraine, which states that hazardous wastes are wastes that have such physical, chemical, biological or other hazardous properties that create or may pose a significant risk to the environment and human health. They are divided into 4 classes: (1) they are particularly dangerous; (2) at high risk; (3) they are moderate; (4) they are low risk. In view of the foregoing, the draft regulation should replace “toxic waste” with hazardous waste. The same view is maintained by the Minn-Nature. Dear colleagues, I ask you to support the Committee's decision and to take decisions in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u39	Thank you. Will there be questions? Is it? Catherine's car, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u40	I don't mind that he's a nice guy, but I want to ask you a question. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will certainly support this decree and the programme to be developed. I want to say that we're 16 years late, because after the Soviet Union collapsed, you know, people were pulling everything that was possible, that warehouses with these toxic substances were left open in the sky and everything else, we know everything. I have a question for you. Please tell me what you think. We are in principle ruling and, as a matter of fact, we are adhering to the concept. Tell me, is an audit provided for where, in which areas? I know I have several of those areas in Hersonian. Which areas? And even we know that there is such a problem in industrial enterprises where the leaders-participants deliberately hide the problem. Is the audit of all these really very dangerous
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u41	I thank you for the question, and I want to say that, of course, this will begin. Before treating a person, he needs to be diagnosed. Therefore, these places need to be specified before they can be understood where and what they need to be disposed of. That's why this is going to start, exactly what you just said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u42	Thank you. Who else wants it? Bondarchuk Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u43	Of course, the development of such a program, or the development of a state-wide toxic waste management programme, is a very important issue. Please tell me if the concept of this program provides for order, an audit first, and then foresight on the recovery of land under former chemical treatments and, in general, these chemical holdings of agricultural enterprises to be accounted for in some way. Because this poses a great danger to our ecology today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u44	Well, that's why this program is being developed. Because if we don't want to live on a landfill and we want to grow on the ground, that is, on our main asset that we have in the State, it's land to grow agricultural products, of course we're trying to do that. But it will only be after soil analysis and the opportunity to grow a culture has been proven. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u45	Thank you. Are there no more? None. Please sit down. From the committee, you represented the committee. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up. Two — “for”, two — “against”. No, I'm sorry, it's not a shortened procedure. Factions, please. Please, Sadowy. A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u46	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. As far as the document is concerned, it is of great importance. Indeed, there is a need for order with those toxic wastes, and socialists support the view that the term “toxic waste” should be replaced with “dangerous waste”. I fully share the view of socialist John Mikolaiovich that it is necessary to examine the state of the land under former warehouses where fertilizers and chemicals were stored for processing, both land and plants. Therefore, the bill is of great importance and needs to be adopted in the first reading. And we also need to take into account that situation. We had an enormous amount of mines where strategic missiles were deployed. And there was also a tremendous amount of toxic and not just toxic waste. And the earth has a corresponding load, the negative load is meant. Where the military-industrial complex has been quite heavily developed, I can call in the Kirovograd region whole areas where there are also adequate toxic wastes and hazardous wastes. Those uranium mines that are located in the territory of the Kirovograd region, there are also these dumps, which are, they pose some danger to people's lives. So I'm not going to agitate anymore, and everyone in the room understands that this document needs to be accepted. And I call on all MPs to support this bill, and the Socialists will vote in favour of this bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u47	Thank you. Julia Kovalevska has the word for herself and for the guy who's missing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I also ask you to support this motion and I ask you to postpone the deadline for the development and introduction to the Supreme Council of this project by the first November of this year. This is due to the need for significant amounts of calculation and reconciliation. Why was such a program needed? In September 2000, the Supreme Council approved a national toxic waste management programme until 2005. The programme included work on the implementation of organizational, technical, scientific and information measures aimed at creating a management system for hazardous waste management, the development of the infrastructure of enterprises from the disposal, disposal and disposal of such wastes, the reduction of their environmental and human health impacts and the improvement of environmental safety in Ukraine. Since the Ukrainian Act on the National Programme for the Treatment of Toxic Wastes was adopted by the Supreme Council following the formation of the 2001 State Budget, the actual funding of the programme's operations began in 2002. So the deadlines for implementing the software were delayed for a period of one and a half years. The total cost of the program was estimated at over 78 million. That's right. The actual total amount of funding for the program was less than 50 percent of the planned. In view of the urgency of the implementation of this program, it is necessary to accept the project for the continuation of the national program and to anticipate all of this. The committee also fully supported the draft Supreme Council decision on the development of this state-wide programme, and I once again propose that the honourable national deputies accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u49	Thank you. Question completed. I'm putting the ruling to a vote with such clarifications. Decision of the Supreme Council “On Developing a National Programme for the Management of Dangerous Wastes. ” [[instead of “toxic”]] And change the name of the proposal, not until the first of May, the Cabinet of Ministers, but until the first of November. With the changes he suggested. Well, no, no, listen carefully. And in the name change: instead of "toxic" -- "dangerous" -- and the date, the term -- by November 1st. With such proposals, please vote on the order number 3216. [[17:00:16]] For the 250. It's been decided. Thank you. Here we go again to the section “In summary procedure”. We need to make a decision. Please vote. [[17:00:44]] For 244 Decision taken. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 2693. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. Please prepare the Player.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! This bill is purely technical, but it is important enough from a legal and technical point of view and with the aim of bringing the terminology of Ukrainian legislation to a single denominator. This project: to amend some Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Residence in Ukraine, introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by the Cabinet of Ministers, and adopted on 11 December 2003 the Law on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine gave the relevant mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers to bring legislation into line with this law. This work is done as suggested by your point of view. It has to be noted that today national legislation uses different terms to determine the place of residence that do not contribute to their explicit application. Legislation thus far uses, for example, terms such as “principle” and individual laws, such as the status and social protection of citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, the legal status of foreigners and stateless persons, contain standards that do not only comply with this law but also with constitutional rules. The project that was put forward for consideration today is designed to amend the 50 legislative acts of Ukraine. These are eight codes, including the Civil and Family Code, the laws of Ukraine and the decrees of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine from various areas of law, which define issues of the realization of human and civil rights and freedoms, thereby addressing the problems mentioned. The adoption of the relevant law will allow Ukraine's legislative acts to be brought into line with the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Free Choice of Residence in Ukraine and ensure the necessary harmonization of the terminology of Ukrainian legislation. I'm asking you to support this project and bring the terminology of Ukrainian legislation to the only denominator.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u51	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. Leonid Ivanovich Grač is head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u52	Dear National Deputies! Since January 15, 2004, there has been a law on freedom of movement and free choice of residence in Ukraine. The bill has abolished the existing permit system of regulation and introduced a new, in our view, more democratic – a reporting form of population accounting – registration of residence and residence of citizens. So there is a new legal mechanism in place in Ukraine that guarantees the constitutional right of citizens to freedom of movement and free choice of residence. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has passed a bill aimed at bringing the regulations and terminology of Ukrainian legislation into line with the law. It is proposed to amend the 48 laws of Ukraine, including the eight codes. The adoption of this law will ensure the necessary codification of legislation and will help harmonize national legislation with the provisions of the Constitution of Ukraine and international standards and standards in the field of human rights for freedom of movement and free choice of residence. Our committee at its meeting reviewed and supported the bill. That's why I'm asking you to back me up. The comments and suggestions of the Scientific and Expert Office, which the Committee believes are largely worthy of attention, should be taken into account in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who "for" who "against" is, please register. Ivan Bondarczuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. I think that both the minister of justice and the committee's head have given a reasoned report, reported on the need for the adoption of this law. Moreover, it is in line with the European laws of the same plan. So, I think we're going to save time if we don't open wide debates on this bill and vote for it and move on to other issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u55	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts in connection with the adoption of the Ukrainian Act on Freedom of Movement and Freedom of Choice of Residence in Ukraine, registration number 2693. Please vote. [[17:06:27]] For 241 Adopted in the first reading. A draft Law amending article 6 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid is under consideration. Registration number 3051. Report by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Helen Vasilovna Hotch. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u56	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national MPs, the government is introducing a bill to bring the law on humanitarian aid into line with the law on amendments to article 6 of the Ukrainian Law and to the law on certain matters of import into customs territory and registration of means of transport. The fact is that through the Commission on Humanitarian Assistance, we allow disabled persons to import transport into the customs territory of Ukraine, which has been in operation for more than 8 years, and the law adopted by the Supreme Council “On certain import issues into the customs territory of Ukraine and registration of means of transport” provides for a limitation of the term of such vehicles within 8 years. And in order to harmonize the two laws, we make appropriate proposals. I want to inform you that today the government is solving the issue of the granting of such cars as humanitarian aid to people with disabilities, and we have about 8,000 of our fellow countrymen using this type of car. We've been looking at this bill in our profile committees and in the Committee on Finance and Banking. This bill has found support for the National Deputies of the relevant committees, it supports the bill and the Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council. We propose and ask you, honourable national MPs, to adopt this bill in the first reading with a view to taking into account all the suggestions that will come from you in the second reading. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u57	Yes, have a seat, please, Helen Vasilovna. Head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u58	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The Committee considered carefully the draft amendments to article 6 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid, and supported the bill, understanding that this problem should indeed be addressed legislatively. In view of the fact that the document has been thoroughly worked on one side. On the other hand, it is of a purely technological nature. So in one case, let's say the number ten is replaced by eight, otherwise the previous name of the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection is changed to the name of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. In view of this, the committee believes that if this document is not denied by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, it can be accepted not only as a basis but as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u59	Thank you, sit down, please. Two-for, two-again, please sign up. Only Suhiy, please, Jaroslav Mihajlovich, is here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u60	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Dear colleagues! I took these two minutes to remind you that we know this problem. You remember that we met when we were discussing a bill to eliminate the added value of a car for the disabled. This is the tax that the government of Timoshenko introduced and extended in 2005 on cars that were supposed to be used by people with disabilities. And by 30 percent, less people with disabilities had already received these cars in 2005-2006. You and I have adopted a bill, the President has signed it, and since January 1, 2007, there has been a rule that such cars will be exempt from this low tax because they cannot be taxed on crumbs, so on skeletons, including cars used by disabled people. In this bill, why I took these two minutes, I want to support the proposal of the head of the profile committee. The thing is, it's really technical, it's changing numbers, so I don't see the need to take it as a base, and then work on it, because there's no need to work on it, because there's basically no comments and warnings from any of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration, or the ministries that introduced this bill, including the deputy minister who's here, can confirm it. That's why I want to support this proposal, this bill to be adopted both on the basis and on the whole, because it's needed because it allows for 8 thousand more cars this year and in the following year to increase the number of cars that our people need to move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u61	What will ZAZ do? Bondarchuk, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u62	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Bondarczuk, the faction of Soccer. Unfortunately, we cannot provide today for the disabled who are in line to get cars as they were in stagnant times. Today, for example, in the Winnitz region alone, more than five and a half thousand people are disabled and are unknown when cars arrive at such speeds. Of course, we're going to make decisions and we're going to work consistently, and we're going to work really hard to increase the call for cars for our compatriots who are using the right to get cars. But we should probably really use this form as an opportunity to get cars along the humanitarian aid line. So I think in my first reading, I would suggest that we adopt this law because we have to work on it so that we don't have to be able to lubricate people with disabilities, because today it's real. I mean, they're looking for a disabled person, and then they're driving a disabled person without a fee, and so I think let's not rush into it, but we'll take it on the first reading, and in a week or two, we'll take it definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u63	Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Here, Ivan Mikolaiovich, you're right and you're not, because this is not the law that we're considering with you. In this law it's about technical details, about changing the name of the ministry, it means that earlier this ministry was called the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection, and now the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And the import date. Yeah, it takes a little bit. Your idea is right, but it's about the basic law, not that. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of Law 3051 amending article 6 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid. Please vote. [[17:14:50]] For 245 It was suggested that it should be accepted as a whole as a proposal made by the chairman of the committee and the speaker. Is there no objection?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u64	Then, with your permission, I am putting to the vote a motion for adoption as a whole as a law of the Law amending article 6 of the Law on Humanitarian Aid, registration number 3051. Please vote. [[17:15:32]] For 249 Copy that. Thank you. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the pension insurance of persons released from military service and some others, registration number 3052, is under consideration. Reported by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Hotch Helen Vasilovna. Get ready for Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The government carried out the mandate of the Supreme Council, which was laid out in the Ukrainian State Budget Act for this year. And today, all pensioners in Ukraine, including the U.S. Pension Fund, are assigned and paid. The 2007 State Budget Act provides 10 billion dollars in the pension fund. The assignment and payment of pensions is carried out in accordance with military law and the payment of pensions is made through the normal military order, through the “Save Bank” of Ukraine. This bill is made by the government with the aim of making appropriate changes to legislation that regulates the issue of pension insurance, so that this rule is not a budget law, but a standard of continuous action. Dear national deputies, we ask that we support the Law and accept it both on the basis and in general. It's already working today, and we're doing all the functions that the Supreme Council has assigned us to do. Thank you for your attention, please support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u66	Thank you, sit down, Olena Vasilovna. Cibenko Peter Stepanovich, please head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u67	The Communist faction, Cibenko, Head of the Committee on the Rights of Retired, Veterans, and Disabled. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to point out that this year it has been decided to hand over the functions of the appointment of pensions and military personnel to the former. I have both the National MP and how the Head of the Committee viewed this problem. I thought it was possible, let's say, to do an experiment on one of the power structures in order to better prepare, methodically, organizationally, personnelally, financially and so on. But, nevertheless, the decision is made and we have to do it, and more than that, we have to harmonize, we have legislation. When it comes to the substance of the document, in fact, it corresponds to the Law on the Basis of Retirement for Military Servants to the Basic Law on the General Compulsory State Pension Insurance. Then, this document is technological, necessary, and it will contribute to improving pensions and removing those problems that, unfortunately, are still taking place today. That is, we are trying to bring these two documents into line, and so that it does not happen as it sometimes does in the proverb: “We wanted as much as possible, but it happened as always.” So the committee has considered this draft amendment to the laws and is proposing to support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u68	Thank you, sit down, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Please two in favour, two in pros. Yes, everyone understands. I am voting on the proposal to adopt as a basis in the first reading of the Draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the retirement of persons released from military service and some others, registration number 3052. Please vote. [[17:19:41]] For 253 Copy that. There was an offer to accept it as a whole as a law because it is technical, and more than a quarter of the time we've been working on this norm, and the Pension Fund beats itself in the chest and says that we have to accept it because we haven't done everything right. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the retirement of persons released from military service and some others, registration number 3052. Please vote. [[17:20:34]] For 251 The law is passed. Thank you. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine, the Portnova Project, is under consideration. [[on improving the order of doing what is right]] 2727. No Portnova. Cornichuk. Nor is it. Since we have already sent this bill for further work, I propose that it be removed from consideration of this session. Please vote off the motion. [[17:21:31]] For 248 Copy that. Decision taken. Draft Act on the addition to the master procedural code of Ukraine. [[on the signing date of the court decision]] Bill number 2823. The author of the initiative is National Deputy Budgerak Alexander Alexandrovich. Is it? Then please Pritika Dmitry Mikitovich, deputy head of the Justice Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Committee on Justice considered a bill submitted by Ukraine’s national deputy Budgerak to amend the Ukrainian Code of Procedure for the signing of a court decision aimed at strengthening guarantees of the protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the parties and other subjects of the economic process. The need for such a supplement is that the Code of Procedure does not set a time limit for a decision to be signed in the event of an introductory and effective court hearing, which complicates the procedure for its appeal and the calculation of the term for an appeal. That's the first one. And the second. The parties have been waiting for months for a decision after the successful part has been announced. She can't wait. The Committee is of the view that the proposed change will remedy the shortcomings of legal regulation in the acquisition of legal power by the decision of the court of the household and its appeal. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine, in their conclusions to the proposed draft law, stress the need to regulate the signing deadlines after the announcement of the introductory and effective part, but requests to take into account the comments and suggestions made. The main scientific and expert office supports the adoption of the bill on the basis of the following comments and proposals made. Bugerak’s national deputy was offered three days. The expert office suggests that the term be extended to five days. And the committee agreed. The Committee reached a conclusion on the need to increase the time limit for the judgement to five days, similar to article 209 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedure Code. The committee proposes that the proposed addition be made to part two of article 85 of the master procedural code of Ukraine as follows: “In such a case, the decision shall be drawn up within five days of the publication of its introductory and effective part. The committee is also of the view that the name of the draft law should also be replaced by the name of the draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u70	Let me finish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u71	The committee also considers it appropriate to change the name of the draft law by introducing it in such an editorial on amendments to article 85 of the master procedural code of Ukraine. Taking into account what has been said, the committee, on the basis of part two of article 109 of the Supreme Council’s Rules of Procedure, considers it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council a draft law submitted by Ukraine’s national deputy, Bougerak, supplementing the Master’s Procedural Code on the signing date of the court’s decision, to adopt, on the basis and as a whole, the law of Ukraine, taking into account the comments and suggestions made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u72	Thank you, Dmitri Mikitovich. All I have are questions. Does the author agree with such suggestions?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u73	Yes, he was present on our committee when the matter was considered, and he agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u74	I didn't deny it. Okay. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up. None. The Justice Department doesn't deny it. Please, Inna Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u75	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. We support adoption on the basis of this bill. Indeed, the Code of Procedure currently does not set a time limit for a decision to be signed in the event of a declaration of only its introductory and effective part in a court hearing. And this bill proposes to set such a term within three days. That is why we support this bill as a basis. But we also had editorial suggestions for the committee’s consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u76	Let's probably do this. Since the author is not to stand up, we will accept him in the author’s first reading and ask the committee to work on the second one with the suggestions they made. And then, they say, legal purity. I am voting on the adoption as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law on Supplements to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure for the Signature of a Judgment. Bill number 2823. Please vote. [[17:26:54]] For 249 Adopted in the first reading. I think the committee will be working quickly. A draft law on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure is under consideration, registration number 2828, reports Pritika Dmitry Mikitovic, please. [[on the process of law enforcement]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u77	Honourable National Deputies, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice considered at its meeting on March 5, 2007, a draft law amending article 25 of the master’s procedural code of Ukraine, registration number 2828. [[on the process of law enforcement]] The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. The bill proposes that in a new edition article 25, a procedural article on the succession of the Ukrainian Master’s Procedural Code, which aims to clarify the grounds for such succession. Yes, according to the current version of article 25 of the master procedural code, the court has the right to replace the party with its successor only in one case – the reorganization of the enterprise or organization. Unlike this article, article 37 of the Ukrainian Civil Procedural Code provides several grounds for replacing the party with a successor: the death of a natural person, the cessation of a legal person, the merger, the merger, the division, the transformation, the replacement of a creditor or debtor in liabilities, and in other cases the replacement of a person in a disputed relationship. Amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Procedure will allow procedural rules to be brought into line with the current legislation of Ukraine, synchronize the civil and administrative process in which the issue of procedural succession is fully settled if the parties are replaced in disputed or established by the court. The proposed edition of article 25 of the Master's Procedural Code significantly expands the possibility of legal process at any stage of the trial. Well, this is all the more important, because today the Supreme Council is handing over corporate disputes to the courts of commerce, where not only legal persons but also natural persons are involved. The provisions of the draft law are broadened by the way in which legal proceedings allow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u78	Let me finish. Please continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u79	To exercise their rights under the Civil Code as well as civil law regarding freedom of contract and freedom of business. The main scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine supports the bill. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u80	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, please sign up. I see. What is the opinion of the Ministry of Justice? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The project is supported for adoption as a basis, but there will be one observation for future consideration in the second reading. And the point is that this is about the succession of a legal person as a result of the cessation of a legal person. But the Civil Code establishes two forms of termination: the reorganization of the legal person and the liquidation. There is only one form of succession: reorganization. Unlike liquidation, which the Civil Code specifically says does not involve the institution of succession. So here we have to make it clear that, not as a result of the cessation of a legal person, but as a result of the reorganization of a legal person, there are consequences for legal succession. The rest of the project is supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u82	Thank you. Question completed. I put it to a vote: on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Law on Supplements to the Law of Ukraine. on amendments to the Ukrainian Code of Commerce and Procedure, registration number 2828. [[on the process of law enforcement]] Please vote. [[17:31:48]] For 245 Copy that, thank you. A draft law on the introduction of additions to the Ukrainian Act on Ukrainian State Prizes is under consideration. [[about honorary names in the aviation sector]] The Galunenko Project, the People's Deputy. Please. Registration number 2569. Prepare Tikhov from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! For your consideration, a draft Act on Supplements to the Ukrainian Law on State Awards is submitted in respect of honorary titles in the aviation industry. The need for this bill is due to the lack of legal standards in existing Ukrainian legislation for the recognition of the merits of pilots and test pilots. During the U.S.S.R., the title “deserved test pilot” was established, virtually one of the first of the other honorary titles, and as a result there were even six. However, when 37 honours of different industries were established by the Ukrainian State Awards Act in 2000, the airlines were not included in the list. The flier's honour is to evaluate his highest professional qualities and special merits to the State and people for decades of his hard, dangerous work. In 2002, the Supreme Council of the Third Congress passed the Act on Honorary Names to Airmen, but because of a misunderstanding at the time between the President and the Supreme Council, it seemed to have fallen into disfavor and a veto. In 2005, also at the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the draft law was considered, passed, and was considered positively at a meeting of the three committees, with a decision to bring it before the Supreme Council. However, it had not been able to bring it into order due to the termination of the mandate of the fourth-seat deputies. In support of numerous military and civilian treatments.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u85	Aviator. The draft law was drafted to promote the profession of aviation workers and to enable them to assess the highest professional achievements of pilots, as well as their special merits to their nationality. Dear colleagues, please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u86	Thank you. There's only one thing to test. I have doubts. Please have a seat. There's no question, because it's a shortcut procedure. Please, Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u87	Dear Adam Ivanovich, in order to reduce time, I will not repeat myself. I will say that all three committees, including our unanimous vote in favour of this law. But I think it can be accepted both as a basis and as a whole. But I want to say that there are two more bills on the committee. And this is a bill supplementing this law entitled “Deserved employee of Ukraine’s local self-government”, registration number 3381. Law 3385 – "Deserved Geologist of Ukraine". If you can not produce these three laws, they are the same, you can add these two titles to the appendix and vote on the basis and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u88	I see. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up. None. Then we'll figure it out. Let me suggest, in view of the fact that we may need to support the proposal, we should support the proposal of the committee head, but I propose that we do so. We have another bill, 2831. Let's listen to him, then we'll make a decision. From the Player site, please. So let's make one decision, because it has something to do with the same law. Please, Player, microphone. On the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u89	I would support my colleague Tikhov's proposal to have a single law, including a well-deserved resort worker. I am aware of the sentiments that exist, including in the “Regions” faction, that it is not very serious to vote against the amendment of the Law on the Establishment of a Deserving Employee of the resorts and that the argument is not very serious, including the resort employee of 200,000 people in general. This is the largest mass of people working at the Ukrainian resort. Moreover, more than 5 million a year serve and restore health, to say that they are service workers. The scope of services is a very broad concept. Therefore, if you could, add to the same law what my previous colleague and the Deserving Pilot, the Deserving Employee of the resorts and what the colleague of the Pacific spoke about, I would support and vote together.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u90	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Tikhov under this law, please, 2831.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u91	Adam Ivanovich, colleagues, unfortunately, the committee didn't support this bill, but I want to say that we can do this the second time. Who are the resort workers? They're doctors, they're employees, so these names already exist, Adam Ivanovich. And it kind of brings them all together, and many of them already have that title, how to divide them, I don't know. Serve who? Doctors, teachers and a series of other professions already listed in this list.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m1.u92	Okay, thank you, have a seat, please. Let us act in such a way that we will bring all these proposals into one proposal, make changes to the Ukrainian Law on Ukraine's State Prizes and introduce such rewards. A well-deserved pilot and pilot tester, and a well-deserved local self-governance worker, a well-deserved geologist from Ukraine, and a well-deserved Ukrainian resort worker. And we'll take it in the first reading, and we'll ask the committee to prepare for the second reading a single law. I'm putting this motion to a vote in the first reading. Vote. [[17:40:43]] For 242 Decision taken. I'd like the committee to prepare for second reading all these four titles that we've earned with you. We need to include in the agenda of the day's session the law number 3259, the draft law amending some Ukrainian legislation on the administration of the system of organs and the administration of penalties, please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[17:41:25]] For 240 Decision taken. It is also necessary to include in the agenda a bill amending certain Ukrainian laws on imports and circulation of horse alcohol, winemaking and the congregation for the development of grapes, gardening and hops. Registration number 3310. Please vote. [[17:41:59]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we have fully implemented the agenda we planned for today. Therefore, I declare the evening meeting of the Supreme Council closed. Tomorrow we start our work at 10 o'clock. Good luck!
