ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u1	Dear colleagues, I ask you to register for the opening of the evening plenary meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[17:35:37]] There are 404 Ukrainian national deputies registered in the hall. The evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is publicized. I would like to inform you that a meeting of the Committee on Budget Affairs of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is about to be concluded. In fact, we are at the final stage on the proposals made by the Ukrainian people's deputies at the time of adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on the 2008 State Budget. There are a few elements left that need to be clarified. I have just received a letter from Prime Minister Timoshenko Uliy Volodymyrovna stating what positions are taken into account by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, which positions need to be further developed. With your permission, I'd like to ask you the following. In order for us to agree on the position of the Committee on Budget Affairs, I would now like to go to a committee meeting, complete the procedure for considering the amendments made by the Ukrainian people's deputies. And they've already come down with an agreed position with the head of the Board of Rippers and together with the Minister of Finance to go in each separate position, as we agreed, which is not counted, what is the basis for accounting or not accounting. Do you give me good friends for that? Thank you. I left then with your permission. I can't hear you. What? You want out of the procedure? No problem. You want out of the procedure, please, three minutes out of the procedure, I'm asking you to sign in. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u2	Yuri Karmazin, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, it is obvious that the budget should be accepted. But I call on the Head, the Honourable Arsenija Petrovich, to make sure that the meetings that are being held are held here, in the Hall, this is the best meeting." And let all the reconciliations be made here so that people can see clearly what is the best and most serious financial document to start a new timeline. So I'd like to ask you whether you want to hear from the agrarian committee about the changes to the Earth Code, because they're extremely important, and they have no direct impact on the budget. And they're also going to have, and we're going to be meeting in plenary mode, not in watchrooms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u3	Thank you, Yuri Anatolyovich. Samuel Catherine Semenovna gives the word Simonek Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u4	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I think that the first is to continue the exchange of views while the work is being done, in order for us to form our position here, and to present it to the voters. What is the position of the Communist faction? The Communist faction would necessarily support all the social benefits that our people needed and would vote in favour of the budget only if the second section, which included changes in the laws, was separated from that text and considered until 31 March. [[of the draft budget]] [[More than a hundred laws]] Why? Because these amendments to the laws provide that the Cabinet of Ministers will in fact become the Supreme Council of Ukraine and without the Supreme Council will amend the laws. It's a dictatorship. Tomorrow, instead of one Kabmin, another will come, and we will have a choice in the country, because the laws will be amended. The Communist faction therefore suggests: separate the second section, and the Communist faction is ready to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u5	Thank you. Grenevetsky Sergey Rafailovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u6	Thank you, Arsenia Petrovich. The “Lithuania Block” proposes to enter the regulatory field, and if a break is announced by 17.10. At 5:10 a.m. it is necessary to start working, thereby disciplining both deputies and those who take responsibility for declaring decisions taken on the committee and the advisory board. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u7	Boguslav Viacheslav Aleksandrovich, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u8	I give up my word, everything's clear, I think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u9	Thank you very much. Taran Viktor Vasilovich, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u10	Well, I'd rather say for people who listen to us. I want to say that this is what it looks like, dear citizens of Ukraine, that, indeed, today's budget is going to be adopted, because the MPs understand that the non-acceptance of the budget was not a bribe to the minimum pension of 55 dollars, the non-acceptance of the budget would not be a pension at all, because at the beginning of the year the pension fund cannot pay the pension. Without the budget, there will be no loan from the treasury account and there will be no increase in three salaries for military personnel. And it seems that the MPs understand and consolidate around it, and here we are united in the Supreme Council today, as I think, not political colors, but indeed concern for people, concern for Ukraine, and that is a good point. I think Ukraine will have a budget today, I want to believe this, our faction report for this effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u11	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the procedure has ended. I'd like to inform you of the following. The first concerns deviations from the Rules at the part of the meeting. Unfortunately, colleagues, I would be delighted to do as the book goes: a minute and a second. But from the fact that your faction leaders can't agree, and from the end of what we have to decide, then one MP comes along and says: for two minutes, we gave the leader of the opposition more opportunities to speak than it's supposed to. So in two minutes we're either fighting for the budget and for 47 million.? So, well, here's the important thing, believe me. Because today's talk should be about letting us hear each other, not about half a minute or two, we're holding off on one or the other. Second, with regard to the trend expressed by our distinguished colleague regarding the question of the Cabinet of Ministers and the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers. I would like to assure you, Sir Peter Mikolaiovich, that this will never happen, in the extreme case of my headship, that the Cabinet will replace the higher legislature of the state. And it will never be, and the Supreme Council will never allow it. For this reason, allow me to attend the Committee on Budget Affairs. [[B in m in s a l in]] Peter Mikolaiovich, and it says in the Rules only if the name is given. And I said "Petro Mikolaiovich." That's why. That's why I'm going to the Budget Committee if I can. Give me another 20 to 30 minutes, I'll deal with them, colleagues. I'm not between two, I'm between five fires, so 20 to 25 minutes. Okay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u12	Dear colleagues, I ask you to take your seats. Whether it's Mikola Ivanovich or not, I can't see him yet, he's probably coming down. Are you in already, Mikola Ivanovich? Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov, I am severely criticized for violating the ban on the transfer of members of the Cabinet of Ministers with a session hall. Alexander Valentinovich, please take your place of honor, preferably not the Prime Minister, but the First Deputy Prime Minister. Dear colleagues, I'd like to inform you. The Committee on Budgets ended its meeting. I think it would be right if we gave a brief word to Mikoli Ivanovich Derkach. After that, we will move on to a very long and detailed presentation by Ukraine's Finance Minister, Pinzenic Viktor Mikhailovich. Mikola Ivanovich, please give us your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u13	Dear colleagues, the long meeting of the Committee on Budgets considered the question of acceptance or consideration on second reading. Basic positions. The first is that the Government, in the face of Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenic, sent a letter on the first reading. The proposal is as follows.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u14	Mikola Ivanovich, I'm sorry to interrupt. Colleagues, this is what the Head of the Committee on Budget Questions reports from a document that, in a mild sense, causes a mixed reaction. I ask everyone to take a seat and listen to the committee head's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u15	It was decided that the representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, in this case, Victor Mihajlovich Pinzenyk, would report, where he focused on all the issues of the transcript that we voted for. First of all, what we have already voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u16	Julia Volodymyrna, allow Pinzenic to listen to the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u17	Budget Committee. Second, what I introduced when I reported that we did. A moratorium on land was introduced as well as VAT on rural areas. [[B in m in s a l in]] Well, what is it? As well as the 56th article and we agreed that there had been a presentation by the deputies, in particular, by Vasuk Ekaterina Timofievna, where she proposed the operation of the Act before 1 January 2009. We agreed that Viktor Mihajlovich was clearly following the transcript of the statement, my statement and those we had voted on, they sent a letter to the Budget Committee, he was reporting on each position. And after that, we decide on the vote. It's a short shot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u18	Thank you, Mikola Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, I, once again, summarizing what High Commissioner Mikola Ivanovich said, will now be the report of the Minister of Finance of Ukraine, who will first express the position of the Government of Ukraine on the basis of the budgetary conclusion, and more precisely the conclusion of the budgetary committee that we voted with you a few hours ago when we adopted the decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Holding Budget. After that, colleagues, in addition to this conclusion, were the mass of proposals made by deputies, Ukrainian national deputies, both during the sessionary plenary session and during the budget committee. And, in fact, it should be that those proposals that were not included in the budget conclusions should be taken into account in the report of the Minister of Finance and the vote. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, we invite you to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u19	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, reverend Julia Volodymyral, distinguished national deputies! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine reviewed the decision adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt, in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 and to amend certain legislative acts, as of 28.12.2008, and supported it as a whole. I would like to emphasize what are the points of this decision, which was supported by the conclusions of the Committee on Budgets. Some standards, since I am reading the draft, have been clarified and are recorded in a transcript by the head of the Committee of Budget Mikli Ivanovich Derkač: “Introduce to the textual articles of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2008 and amending some of the legislative acts submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers for Ukraine, such changes. In Chapter 1, paragraph 35 of Article 2, add the words in brackets “since Ukraine became a member of the World Trade Organization”. Article 3 adds by paragraph: “This article extends solely to those parties to joint venture agreements, according to which the cost of a company whose share of a State in a statutory fund exceeds 50 per cent, to households with more than 50 per cent of shares, which are found in the statutory funds of other companies whose shareholder is a State and owns a controlling shareholding, as well as to subsidiaries and subsidiaries of such enterprises and societies, exceeding 50 per cent of the total value of the contributions of the parties to the joint activity contracts.” Article 7, paragraph 38, should be deleted. Article 11 reads: “To establish that government borrowing is carried out within the total amount of the country’s sovereign debt established by this law. In the event of the arrival of funds and internal, parentheses, external sources of funding of a particular type defined by Appendix Two to this Act in incomplete terms, an increase in external, internal sources of financing of another type is allowed, with the corresponding excess of the country's marginal debt, due to the excess of the corresponding amounts of borrowing, with the corresponding adjustment of the total amount of government debt defined by Article 10 of this Act, with monthly mandatory information from the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. In the part of the first article 13, before the words “and also” add to the words and figures “under the liabilities of a state mortgage institution amounting to 1 billion dollars”. Article 22 after the words and figures “up to paragraph 2 of Article 18” add the words and figures “and to paragraph 2 of Article 19”. In article 36, paragraph 5, the word and digits “paragraph 10” shall be replaced by “paragraph 9”. In paragraph 30 of article 37, delete the words and digits “Article 7, paragraph 38, and. ” Paragraph 46 of article 37 reads as follows: “Expenses and loans under the code of the programme classification of expenditure and credits to the State budget 220 13 90, 231 10 20, 270 11 80, 271 10 20, 276 11 10, 312 10 20, 280 11 70, 280 12 10, 280 12 40, 280 14 90, 280 15 60, 280 41 00, aimed at supporting the development of an agri-industrial complex of 1 billion 500 000 dollars and providing housing for education, culture, health care and other budget workers who are constantly living and working in the village and have entered into employment contracts for 20 years amounting to 1 billion grubles, in parentheses, paragraph 47 of Article 37 and the word “0.5 per cent” shall be replaced by “0.2 per cent”. [[on the basis of the sources defined in article 7, paragraph 29 of this Law]] Article 37, paragraph 55, should be deleted. In paragraph 2 of part one of article 52, the words “70 per cent and 30 per cent” should be replaced by the words “85 per cent and 15 per cent”. Paragraph 19 of part 1 of article 52 should be deleted. In paragraph 21 of the first article 52, replace the words “to the locals” with the words “to the budgets of local self-government”. After the words “Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol City”, add the word “budgets”. Part four of article 52 is deleted. Complementing Articles 54-1 and 54-2 with the following content: “To establish that the distribution of subsidies from the State budget to local budgets for socio-economic development by objects is carried out by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine at the proposals of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, the Council of Ministers of the Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, district councils, district administrations, the City Council and the city government administration of the city of Sevastopol and the national deputies of Ukraine, in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters. Article 54-2. The collection of taxes, the collection of compulsory payments paid by enterprises operating in the zone of secession and in the area of compulsory eviction, as defined in articles 64 and 69 of the Ukrainian Budget Code, is carried out at 25 per cent to the district budget of the Kyiv region and 75 per cent to the district budget of the Ivankow region of Kiev.” Part one of the first article 58 reads: “To establish that state-owned unitary enterprises, in addition to the State-owned air traffic service undertaking of Ukraine, “Ukraine” in accordance with the Ukrainian Act “To join Ukraine in a multilateral agreement on the payment and reunification of scheduled congregations” pay part of the net income of 15 per cent, reduced by the amount of dividends accrued and paid, in accordance with paragraph 7.8 of article seven of the Ukrainian Law on the Taxation of the Income of Enterprises”. [[income]] Article 79 reads: “To establish that in 2008 sales of land of state and municipal property are made exclusively on competitive grounds, auctions, in addition to the purchase of land in which the immovable property is located, which is owned by the buyers of those areas where there are no shares, shares, pies belonging to the State.” Complementing Article 81.1-1 with the following content: “To establish that in 2008 for all business subjects, in the case of imports into special free economic zones and in the area of priority development of excise goods and goods, 1 to 24 groups under the U.K.T.S., the application of the import duty and the value added tax for such goods is suspended irrespective of the purpose of the import. [[forwarding]] If other laws of Ukraine, irrespective of the date of their adoption, including the laws of Ukraine that provide guarantees of non-variable tax legislation, establish a different order and conditions for payment by such subjects of entrepreneurial tax and congregation activities, compulsory payments, the rules of this law apply. In accordance with the requirements of article 19 of the Constitution, the authorities of Ukraine are prohibited from making and implementing decisions that lay down other rules for the taxation of business entities that implement investment projects in special free economic zones and in areas of priority development than those defined by the rules of this law. Paragraph five to chapter two. Paragraph 5 of the second article is edited. Complementing part of the first article 124 with paragraphs two and three of the following content: “The acquisition of land leases held in public or municipal property is made exclusively at auctions, except for land plots that contain immovable property owned by citizens and legal persons with no shares, parts of the pie belonging to the State. No auctions are allowed on areas that, or buildings that are rented by budgetary institutions, museums, enterprises and public organizations in the fields of culture and art, including national creative associations and their members under the creative workshops.” Article 2, paragraph 9. The content of article 134 is edited as follows: “Early areas of state or municipal property intended for sale to business entities are subject to the sale on competitive grounds of land trade, except for the purchase of land in which immovable property is located, which is owned by buyers of those areas where there are no shares, shares, pies belonging to the State.” Article 8, paragraph 3. Article 16 should be edited as follows: “The acquisition of land leases held in state or municipal property shall be effected exclusively at auctions, except for land plots where immovable property is held by citizens and legal persons, and where shares, shares, pies belonging to the State are not available. The procedure for auctioning and renting land on competitive grounds is determined by legislation." Article 12, paragraph 1. In article 1, words and figures, ethyl alcohol is not denatured with a concentration of alcohol of more than 80 percent. Ethyl alcohol and other alcohols are denatured by any concentration, bet 19 bracelets per letter of 100% alcohol. Alcohol ethyl code 2208, except 2208 20, alcohol undenatured with alcohol concentration is less than 80 percent volume, alcohol, liquor, liquor and other alcoholic beverages rate - 19 ounces per liter of alcohol, product code 2208 20, except 2208 20 12 00, 2208 20 29 00 only brandy 2208 20 89 00, only brandy alcohol, it's alcohol drinks, obtained by a wine race or a grape harvest stake – 19 bracelets per liter per cent alcohol. 2208 20 12 00, Cognac. The congregation rate is 7 dollars per litre of alcohol. Position 2208 20 29 00 is brandy only. The excise duty rate is 7 dollars per litre of alcohol. Position 2208 20 89 00 is only brandy. The excise rate is 16 dollars per litre of 100 percent alcohol to replace words and figures. Position 2208 is ethyl alcohol not denatured with 80 per cent or more alcohol, ethyl alcohol and other spirits obtained by race, denatured by any concentration of the rate – 21.5 Gin per litre of 100 per cent alcohol. Heading 2208 is undenatured ethyl alcohol with less than 80 percent alcohol, distillate and alcohol, obtained by race, liqueurs, and other beverages containing alcohol from the side — $21.5 per litre of alcohol per cent alcohol. Article 13 is deleted. Article 14, paragraph 1, should be deleted. Paragraph 2, paragraph 3, of article 14, is amended as follows: In paragraph 1 of Subparagraph 7.4. Paragraph 7.4., after the word and the figure “Article 5”, add the words and digits “and Article 11, paragraph 11.44”. Paragraph 1 and paragraph 3 of second article 15 should be deleted. Paragraph 1 of article 17 should be worded as such. In Subparagraph 4.3. Article 4, paragraph 3, “total income.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u20	Turn on the microphone, I asked for no limits, comrades.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u21	Fill in the words “as a percentage ” Article 17, paragraphs two and three, should be deleted. In article 19 the words “January 1st and March 31st” are replaced by the words “January 1st and January 1, 2009”. In subparagraph “b” of paragraph 1.1 of Article 20, the digits “550 and 280” shall be replaced by the digits “450 and 150”. To complement article 103 of this content: “To amend the Law of Ukraine on transaction of donor raw materials in external economic relations”. Article 3 should be supplemented by part six of the following content: “Implementation of finished products produced from the donor raw material, which refers to the first to twenty-fourth groups, according to the classification, is prohibited in the customs territory of Ukraine”. To chapter three. Paragraph 3 of Article 2 should be supplemented by the words “with regard to article 11, part four, of the Ukrainian Law on State regulation of the production and circulation of ethyl, equine and fruit, alcoholic beverages and tobacco products”. Excluding paragraphs six and seven from Article 2, replacing them with paragraph one of the following: “The standards for granting benefits to citizens other than budget officials, military personnel and members of the military and primary staff in the calculation of the average monthly total income have been effective since May 1, 2008. To be completed by Article 5 of the following content: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 1 March 2008 a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 on the basis of an analysis of the implementation of the main macro indicators of economic and social development of Ukraine and the budget in 2007 and the reassessments of the main projections for 2008, taking into account the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, as defined in paragraph 6 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree of 28 December 2007 on the adoption in the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008” and amending certain legislative acts.” The following changes will be made to the expenditure of the 2008 State Budget Project of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine: 1. Increase the cost of developing a general background under the Ministry of Health code 2301840, the completion of the construction of dormitory number 8, the design and construction of dormitory number 9 and the laboratory corps of the National Medical University of Bogolits by 20 million dollars. 2. Increase the development costs of the General Fund of the Ministry of Housing and Utilities under code 2701170, eliminating the effects of submerged areas in cities and villages of Ukraine by 15 million dollars. 3. An increase in the development expenditure of the National Committee on Water Management of Ukraine by 12 million under the code 5001090 and by clarifying the name of the budget programme, the priority is to provide centralized water supplies to the population. 4. To increase the development costs of the General Fund for the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences by code 65 51 050 applied scientific and scientific and technical development, the execution of public-purpose programmes and public procurement, the preparation of scientific personnel of the Academy of Pedagogical Sciences of Ukraine by 2 million 907,7 thousand dollars. Fifth. To foresee a new budget programme for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine. Grants to employers to provide young people with the first job of 32 million dollars. Six. To foresee a new budget program for the Ministry of Ukraine in family, youth, and sports. The financial support of the Ukrainian Sports Committee is 5 million dollars. Seven. In the titles of the budget programmes under codes 23 01 290 - “Centralized purchase of X-ray, diagnostic and other health care facilities”, 23 01 370 – “Provision of health care measures to combat tuberculosis, prevention and treatment of AIDS, treatment of cancer patients”, 23 01 400 – “Provision of medical care, separate government programmes and comprehensive programming measures”, add the words “including financial lysis”. Eight. The budget programme under code 31 08 060 “Buying AN-148 aircraft through a state-owned lysing company” is worth 200 million dollars; transferring the contractor responsible – the State Aviation Administration to the responsible contractor – the Office of the Ministry of Transport and Communications of Ukraine. Nine. Increase the general fund's expenditure by 10 million dollars in subsidies from the state budget, the budget of the city of Dniprožinsk Dnipropetrovsk of the region for anti-removal measures in the Shameshini Baltic. Ten. Increase development costs from the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Global Development Fund by code 01 11,050 “Service of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” by 8 million dollars. Eleven. To anticipate expenditure from the General Fund on State Budget subsidies to local budgets for socio-economic development. The city of Yellow Waters in the Dnipropetrovsk region is 5 million dollars. The Novograd Wallin region of the Žitomir region is 15 million gravel. The city of Makyyyyukkah in the Donetsk Region is 10 million dollars. Twelve. To anticipate expenditure from the General Fund for a grant from the State Budget of the city of Berdjansk of Zaporozhye to strengthen the Berdian hair worth 10 million dollars. Thirteen. Foresee expenditure from the general grant fund from the state budget for the district budget of Montenegro for gasification of the construction of underwater gas pipelines to the rural population of 10 million dollars. Paragraph 4 of the ruling. Increase funding from the 2008 General Fund of the State Budget Project, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to increase the expenditure of the General Fund of the State Budget project of Ukraine in accordance with paragraph 3 of the Decree on increasing the forecast of government property privatization. On the basis of the proposals defined in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Decision, amend Articles 1 and 22 of Appendices 2, 3, 4, 5 and 7 to Chapter 1 of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008 and to amend certain legislative acts submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Sixth paragraph of the decree. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine with the preparation of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 to consider the proposals of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the National Deputies of Ukraine submitted by the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budget issues on 27 December 2007 to the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and to amend certain legislative acts. [[Registration number 1285]] To anticipate an increase in expenditure on the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine and to arrange for the total number of specialities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs; to provide funds to the Ministry of Finance for emergency personnel and to protect the population from the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster for 450 million dollars; to support government support for youth and children’s social organizations; to implement national programmes and measures for children, young people, women, families for 5 million dollars; and to support national energy conservation measures through the 79 million-year loan mechanism. Under the budget programme, the State Budget grant to local energy savings budgets, including engineering equipment. virgins, multi-housing dwellings, use of water and heat, repair and reconstruction of thermal networks and boilers, construction of gas pipelines, and gasification of populated areas. The State Committee on Water Management, under the budget programme, operates state-owned and inter-economic state-owned meliorrheic systems for 55 million dollars in order to prevent the introduction of creditors' debt for utilities and energy services. For the function of the state scientific institution, the Library Chamber of the name Fedorova. As part of the budget program, the bookkeeping and information activities have been applied for 1 million 877 thousand dollars. According to the budget programme for training assemblies and competitions with the Olympic sports in the range of 4.5 million dollars. According to the Budget Program for Non-Olympic Sports and Mass Activities in Physical Culture, 2 million dollars. Estimated expenditure on new budget programs. Target costs of 15 million dollars for construction, reconstruction of the scientific corps of the National University of Lviv Polytechnics. To anticipate the first-line anti-accident repairs. Development of a cost-effective documentation project for the Pacific City with ruins of the 12th-XVI Fortress in the Biological Region of the Hmelni district in the range of 530,000 bracelets; Consider the cost of 1 million dollars to provide the National University of Physical Education and Sports with equipment for printing methodological literature. To anticipate the expenditure for the State targeted social programme “Hokey Ukraine”, approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine decision of 3 October 2007 No. 1194 in the amount of 60 million dollars; Restore budget programmes and expenditure for their implementation; The restructuring of the production capacity of rocket-space enterprises is 80 million dollars. Loans for innovation and investment projects in the economy, primarily from the introduction of advanced energy-saving technologies from the production of alternative fuel sources – 784.9 million dollars; The coal security package is 400 million dollars; Restoring a 7 billion-dollar lease on medical equipment for 7 years, which is projected to cost up to 1 billion dollars in the 2008 budget; The name of the budget programme of the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine “County from the State Budget to local budgets for the acquisition of wagons for utility transport, trolleybuses and trams” shall be supplemented by the words “through the state-owned company “Lisingtechtrans”. To foresee a standard for mandatory agreement with the Supreme Council Committee on the budget of the use of funds and the distribution of buildings under State budget subsidies to local budgets, to Ukraine's socio-economic development, to energy conservation, including the provision of engineering inputs to multi-entity housing, water and thermal energy bills, the repair and reconstruction of thermal networks and boilers, the construction of gas pipelines and the gasification of population sites Determine the mandatory agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the budget allocation of funds under the following budgetary programmes: - the Ministry of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine under code 2701180, including the cost of loans for the implementation of this programme; [[the state-wide programme “Reforming Housing-Communication”]] - The Ukrainian State Motorway Service code 31 11,020 network development and maintenance of the roadways of general use; - increase the public budget subsidy expenditure of the local budgets for the implementation of the State’s School of the Future’s target social programme by 40 million. Grief; - additional grants from the State budget to local budgets of 137.8 million. Grief; - financing the construction of a highway across the Dnipro River in Zaporozhye by 250 million Grief; - include in the State Road Development Programme the general use for 2007-2011 of financing the construction of a coastal approach to the Kajdajka Bridge of Dnipropetrovska in the amount of 100 million. Grief; - To establish a ratio of the distribution of environmental pollution in the congregation between the State and local budgets: 30 per cent to the State budget and 70 per cent to local budgets; - provide subsidies from the State budget to local budgets to stimulate the development of regions, including depressed areas, of 150 million. Grief; - provide for a grant from the State budget of the Interstate Region of Dnipropetrov region to provide rural settlements with centralized water supply of three million dollars; - to anticipate a cost of 65 million. A gravel to move out of the submerged area of Amur Nizhneniprovski, Leninsky, Samarski district of Dnipropetrovska, 24 houses of the area moved into 40 homes. Renovate the budget programme “Development and reconstruction of central water supply and water supply systems” in the amount of 60 million dollars. Including the provision of 500,000 bracelets for the construction of design and cost-saving documentation for the construction of a sewage collector, a pump station, a network of drainage structures, open sewers and trays in a village of the city-type Grand Love of the City district of Lviv. To renew in 2008 the budget programme “State Budget Grant” to local budgets for construction, reconstruction, repair of municipal roads in the amount of 500 million dollars, and to supplement the law with a rule of content: “The distribution of subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets for construction, reconstruction, repair of roads, municipal property is carried out in agreement with the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on budgetary matters”. To anticipate a grant from the State Budget. The budget of the city of Dnipropetrovska for anti-removal measures on the slopes of the Red Cross and the Conciliation Balcony of the Topol 1, 2, 3 dwellings in the amount of 9 million dollars. To anticipate a subsidy from the State Budget, the budget of the city of Dnipropetrovska for the construction of a boiler room for the heating of residential buildings on the street of General Pushkin 26, 26th in the amount of 3 million 498,000 dollars and. For the reconstruction of a boiler house on the street of Heroov Stalingrad 139 in the amount of 13.5 million dollars. To provide for the construction of a platoon from the village of Chernelovka Krasilovsky district to the town of Hmelnickýk in the amount of 20 million dollars. Foresee the cost of putting into service a city-type village of Vinkov Hmelnicki district of 2 million dollars. To anticipate the cost of building a school in the village of Nova Sinjaka, in the Hmelni district of Starosinava, about five million dollars. Foresee the cost of repairing the House of Culture in the village of Dashkovitsa in the district of Hmelnitské region, in the amount of 500 thousand dollars. To provide for an additional 12 billion dollars in the revenue and expenditure portions of the budget to reimburse citizens for their lost savings under the budget programme 3501160: “Proceeds to gradually compensate citizens for the loss of money savings”. To supplement the law with a new norm: “In banking transactions for the sale of currency for its own purposes on the market, except for transactions under its own external economic contracts, the payment of the collection for compulsory pension insurance is made from the amount of the balance of the purchased non-cash currency as a result of the trading day. For the purpose of organizing currency trading, the stock exchange should meet the following requirements: having a general license of the National Bank of Ukraine to carry out foreign exchange transactions, its capital must be at least 40 million dollars to carry out guaranteed transactions and to fulfil obligations under market agreements. To establish that the stock market has the right to receive a commission fee of no more than 0.04 per cent of the amount of contracts entered into for the purchase and sale of the currency from which the collection is paid for the compulsory pension insurance. To entrust the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine by 10 January 2008 to submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law on the definition of basic standards for payment for the use of mining nadrama at the level of 2007 in the following positions: metal ores, iron. For enrichment, 0.9 iron is rich - 4.5. Bentonite clay - 0.8. Dolomite fire raw material - 0.5. Flush lime raw material - 0.3. The honourable national deputies, this decree, or the conclusions of the budgetary committee, were supported in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine agrees with these conclusions. At the same time, we consider it possible to supplement the draft law on the 2008 National Budget of Ukraine and to amend certain other legislative acts of Ukraine with proposals made at the Supreme Council meeting in the course of the report made by the head of the Supreme Council Committee, Mikli Ivanovich Derkač. They're fixed in the transcript, three basic things I want to sound. It's about a moratorium on land sales, it's about VAT in the agricultural sector, and it's about Article 56. The rest of it, we agree with those things, they are recorded in the transcript, in the report by Nikola Ivanovich Derkač. In addition, we propose that the text of this Act be supplemented by the following rules: “The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, within two months of the participation of the Ukrainian Supreme Council’s Preparatory Committees, should analyse the changes made to some of the Ukrainian legislative acts contained in the second chapter of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for 2008 and on amending some other legislative acts of Ukraine” to be considered in the Supreme Council in March 2008. Article 80 of the bill reads: “To allow the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine in 2008 to decide on the issue of the acquisition of technical and other means of rehabilitation made on an individual basis by persons with disabilities and persons with the right to provide such funds free of charge in accordance with legislation, as well as on the maintenance of technical and other means of rehabilitation, as well as on the main cost manager of direct contractors without applying the tender procedure to all categories of persons in need of rehabilitation. To establish that the amount of temporary cash gaps in local budgets related to the provision of general fund expenditure is primarily to cover the work of budget staff and the payment of salaries, the purchase of food and medicines, the payment of utilities and energy supplies, as a matter of urgency, by the State Treasury of Ukraine within the planned budget period, and the temporary cash breaks of the Pension Fund of Ukraine relating to the payment of pensions within the framework of its actual deficit of funds for this purpose at the expense of a single treasury account on contractual terms without accounting for a percentage of the use of these funds. Under the programme “Financial support for national creative communities in the sphere of culture and art”, add the words “including the National Association of Ukrainian Writers 3 million bracelets”. In Appendix 1 to Section 2 of the Ukrainian draft Law on the State Budget for 2008 and amending certain legislative acts, replace the figure “0.45” with “0”; replace the figure “5” with “5” by “0” by “5” by “5”; replace the figure “5” by “0” by “0” by “5” by “5” by “0” by “0” by “0” by “0” by “7.5 ” by “0” by “0” by “0” and “0” by “0” by “0”. In subsection 12, section 2, replace 450 with a digit 200 and replace 150 with a digit 100. In paragraph 2 of section 2 of the bill, the “implementation of orders” should be supplemented by the words “except the alienation of lands where there are non-privatisationable objects”. The same applies to part 3 of paragraph 13 and paragraph 3 of the project. In Appendix 7, in the heading “Social and Economic Development”, increase the expenditure of the district budget of the Žitomir Region by 30 million dollars and under the code of program 65 41 170 to increase by 15 million dollars the corresponding changes to the summary line and Appendix 3, with a corresponding reduction in expenditure under programme code 35 01 180. In the course of the work of the Committee on Budgets, there are some other positions that I would like to make. First. Article 76 is clarified by a paragraph that provides for reconciliation with the Committee on Budgets. Include a new programme code 62 41 060 for lending innovative investment projects worth 167 million dollars for increasing budget deficits and the amount of privatisation revenues. In the program 65 61,830 of the Academy of Medical Sciences, complete the Institute of Shalimov. We agree, we have found a compromise with the faction of the regions, in order to reconcile the position in paragraphs 21, 22, 29, to remove the rules on benefits associated with the income of citizens. In addition, we agree with the suggestions that have been made, to complete section 3 of the bill to the end of paragraph 5 of the text: “5. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine introduce, first, a programme of activities of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for the consideration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine established by the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The other one. To develop, within two months from the date of entry into force of this Act, a draft of Ukraine's State Economic and Social Development Programme 2008 and to submit it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine at the same time as the draft Ukrainian Act on Change of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2008. Third. Prepare, taking into account the monitoring of Ukraine's implementation of the 2008 Act on Ukraine's State Budget, during January-February 2008, and submit by 1 March 2008 a draft of the Ukrainian Act on Change in Ukraine's Law on Ukraine's 2008 State Budget. Four. By April 1, 2008, the Supreme Council of Ukraine introduced draft laws on the land market and on the State Land cadastre, consistent with the laws of Ukraine on the State Register of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions, on local self-government in Ukraine, on the Notariat and on the Civil Code of Ukraine, in particular in the part of the operation of a single state-owned information system and documents concerning land, other immovable property, their legal regime and aimed at the elimination of unwarranted difficulties in the implementation of citizens, legal persons of constitutional property rights to land and land use rights, other objects of immovable property. Fifth. Ensure, within two months of the date of entry into force of this Act, the adoption of the legal acts provided for in this Act. In view of the above, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine proposes the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 in a second reading and in general. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u22	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Let's give Victor Mikhailovich a minute to rest. Colleagues, the next order of consideration is now proposed. Victor Mikhailovich, please don't go. We need a few more questions to clarify all things. What's the specifics, colleagues? The specific thing is that the decision of the Budget Committee is that we're actually going to be stenographic after this, which is documented, and during the meeting of the Budget Committee, and during Pinzenik's speech, we're going to format the final text of the law, then we're going to pass it on to the Budget Committee, the Budget Committee is going to initial it, and only then will the Chief of the Supreme Council sign it. If there is no consistent position, there will be no signature. That is why Viktor Mikhailovich reads all the points that will be reflected in the relevant State Budget Act. What would I ask now? Ten minutes to question-answer. Victor Mikhailovich to clarify the positions that have been taken. And I would very much like, Victor Mikhailovich, to reflect separately the resource positions that you went to, like the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to meet a minority in part of the increase in spending funding. So how many suggestions have been accepted from the Party of Regions, from the Communist Party of Ukraine, from the Block of Lithuania, which, in fact, has influenced the structure of the budget as far as you've gone to the meeting for these factions. It would be very important to hear. So I'm asking you to log in, 10 minutes, questions are answers. And once again, everything you're going to say falls into the transcript. In technical legal processing, the transcript will be the main document that will be applied in the final drafting of the law. Please sign up. Victor Mikhailovich, and here's the question of taking your proposals into account to other factions, other factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u23	There's no fraction that wasn't included in the project proposals. So in all factions, there's been a compromise. With all the factions yesterday was a separate dialogue, all without excluding factions. Part of it came directly to the conclusions of the committee and to the body of the budget, part of it was commissioned to consider these issues when amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget of Ukraine. I would like to point out that the constructive proposals taken into account, including today, have been echoed by the factions of the “Regions” and are agreed upon. Especially with regard to the provision of guarantees to a state-owned licensing company, regarding the possibility of using funds for centralized purchase of equipment for medical facilities. With regard to article 76, which concerns the return of savings, I just spoke to her about reconciliation with the Committee on Budgets. The other factions also take into account the proposals, and now it's hard for me to say how much each fraction is counted, but there's no fraction at which steps are taken to meet each other. And in most cases, we didn't find any consistent positions from each faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u24	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. I'm asking for answers. Maruszczenko Vladimir Stanislavovich, “Our Ukraine” – People's Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u25	Dear Victor Mikhajlovich, please tell us, in accordance with article 73, is there a list of land belongings that are leased on competitive grounds, could we add to the list of organizations that are exempt from competition, religious organizations? Because if they go to the competition, they won't be able to get that kind of property in the lease.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u26	Come on, I have an offer, we're going to include it in the commission, we're going to study it, and then when we review the budget, we're going to make the right proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u27	Thank you. Rubinsky, "Block of Lithuania" faction. Oleg Alexandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u28	Please pass the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u29	The word Volodymyr Mikhailovich Litvina.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u30	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, we have a few questions, more specifically, but of principle. First, we asked you to read out those formulations that were further made during the consideration and decision-making of the conclusions and proposals of the Committee on Budgets. In particular, moratoriums and corresponding adjustments to the draft elimination budget, where the sale of agricultural land is concerned, such as section 2 of Article 2. Then it's VAT. We asked that such a position be clearly stated that the VAT on the village should be replaced by the words “by 1 January of the following year after the date of Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u31	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u32	I read: "by 1 January of the following year, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will ratify the Protocol on Ukraine's accession to the WTO." I would like to emphasize that this decision has been made and should be fixed, not as the government suggests. Next. We agreed here that these legislative acts, that together we're adopting 102 new laws, we're not suspending new laws, we're adopting, we're adopting new laws. There were two proposals: Deputy Carmazin, until March 31, 2008, that is, before the budget changes, and the second proposal was by January 1, 2009. This principle, we would ask that there be a clearly fixed position here. And the last. Ecology Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u33	Vladimir Mikhailovich, you're out of the rules. They've gone very far.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u34	It strongly urges the deletion of section 29 of the two bills relating to the amendment of the Ukrainian Law on the Status and Social Protection of Citizens affected by the Chernobyl disaster, as such changes proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers completely undermine the social protection of Chernobyl. We asked and urged that this be taken into account and clearly recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u35	Dear colleagues! Victor Mikhailovich, I'm sorry, we're just in a dilemma here, now comes the question-answer. And then there was an offer three minutes away from the factions, set up protocol. That's why we're here. If we're going into a discussion right now, it's a very different format. I'd like to ask you some very specific questions about Victor Mikhailovich's speech. And then three minutes from the factions, we're all in the transcript and we're going to include it in the protocol. Excuse me, Victor Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u36	I can only point out that the question of the moratorium has already been defined; it has been answered in a statement by the head of the budget committee. And it's already fixed, and the government's got it. As for the sale of agricultural land. The document under consideration did not contain those standards. As far as VAT is concerned in the village, the standard that Vladimir Mikhailovich gave us has been adopted. But I would like to stress again the problem so that we do not put ourselves in a deadlock again. I want to remind you that the country has serious imbalances, which are not just caused by the Budget Act, but, unfortunately, by the existence of many of the laws that at the time could be called the hidden deficit of the budget. And you know, if we don't "break up" this topic, every year we're going to have the "State Budget of Ukraine" Act for a year and make changes to Ukraine's legislative acts. Because I don't know any finance ministers in the world who can balance the budget with such serious financial imbalances. Dear colleagues, you are all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u37	Hare Ivan Aleksandrovich, “Our Ukraine is the People’s Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u38	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, the committee proposed the deletion of article 7, paragraph thirty - eight, and article 52, paragraph nineteen, was about the sale of agricultural land. The government agreed to delete these articles. At an earlier meeting, Catherine Vaschuk offered to delete the last part of article 52, paragraph twenty - four, on the basis of the fact that local budgets are formed from the funds that come from the sale of agricultural land. The head of the Supreme Council said that this proposal would be taken into account. Now in your speech, you said the same thing, that you told the MPs that all the proposals would be taken into account. Does this mean that article 52, paragraph twenty - four, will be deleted. And whether it means, and so it's going to be brought into line with the previous deletion into our budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u39	The law does not provide for the sale of agricultural land.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u40	Stratovic Volodymir Mikolajovic, “Our Ukraine-National Self-Defense”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u41	Thank you, Mr. Head. Stretovic, Christian-Democratic Union, “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, please tell us whether it is not possible to transform the budget and the selection of animal production, the position of code 2801190, which provides for 125 million and help farmers with only 60 million who are in dire need of assistance today. That's the first question. And the second. Please tell us if the government promises us not only to review the budget parameters by March 15 but also to review the list of bills to which the changes have been made, as stated. [[102]] Will You Keep Your Word? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u42	I'm asking you to consider, we can take this position into account in the government's orders regarding farm support, and as far as the analysis of these laws is concerned, at the suggestion of your faction, and this is a compromise, a reasonable compromise that the government agrees to, a provision that I have foreseen, and I have read it when I speak out on the position of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and it's a fixed norm and it's a prerequisite.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u43	Vitaly Mihajlovich’s Chapinoga, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u44	Thank you. I'm asking you to pass the word to Sergio Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u45	Terjehohin Sergey, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u46	Thank you very much. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, well, first of all, I dared on behalf of the Tax and Customs Committee to thank you for the fruitful work that was done yesterday and this morning, we agreed on a lot of questions. But please say the answer to two questions again on behalf of the committee. I'd like that to sound like a transcript. First. Do you confirm that article 12, paragraph 2, article 14, paragraphs 2 and 4, sets the norm, and the formula described by Vladimir Litwin, following Ukraine’s introduction to WTO? And do you confirm that an additional article 14 prime is being inserted. about the same approach to Autoprom? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u47	Unfortunately, I'm the minister of finance. Yes, I'll confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u48	Until I shut up. Samuel Catherine Seminovna, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u49	I give the word to Alexandrovsky Ally Alexanderovni.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u50	Alla Alexandrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u51	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Victor Mikhailovich, I'm a little surprised right now. At the request of the Hare, the budget committee decided to exclude from the draft budget and other laws all items relating to the sale of agricultural land. However, you claim that this is not in the draft budget. I'm showing you an example. Article 7 of the draft State Budget Act, subparagraph 38. Article 7 shows that the source of the special fund is, in terms of income, 95 per cent of the cost of selling agricultural land. I'm reasserting. We have decided on the budget committee: where the special fund is formed, the spending of the special fund is excluded, and all of this relates to the sale of land. Please confirm.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u52	Dear Alla Alexandrovna, you will find no documents under the shed at this time, no resource position that anticipated receipts from the sale of agricultural land. Once again, no amount of resources in revenue and expenditure will you find a resource from the sale of agricultural land. We have exclusive expenses.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u53	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich, thank you. Please speak from factions for three minutes and proceed to the voting procedure. Zabluque, Yulia Timoshenko Block, Roman Omelanovic.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u54	Well, you can't have them making an appeal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u55	But they won't make any changes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u56	Well, to make such proposals,
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u57	Zabuc Roman Omelyanovich, colleagues. Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u58	Dear Head, honourable members of the government! Honorable members of the National Deputies! Dear voters! I think a two-day discussion has shown a perfectly clear picture. We have a 2008 technical budget project in the hall. And this was repeatedly declared by the government, which in 7 days could not radically change anything. This is what the Head of the Supreme Council has repeatedly said that we need to unlock the functioning of financial institutions and financial instruments in the state in 2008, voting for this very project that has been implemented. And here in the Final Situations, we are voting for three fundamental positions, one of which is the elaboration of an important draft budget so that, in the sum of the first quarter, we can vote on a new document in principle. That's the first one. The other one. What unites us in this room. This is the product of the work of two Ukrainian governments and both of these governments in this room: one on the left, one on the government bed. Dear colleagues, why not vote for this budget? To make it even more social where we've just removed 8 billion from the minister's report and added at least 6, it's impossible to do more. We will never be satisfied with the budget. You want more, but there are real possibilities. Third. The third major. Dear colleagues, three days from now, a new year. On January 3, pensioners need to pay not just the pension, but the greater social guarantees they offer, because we understand, and the price of gas, and inflation, and so on, and so on and so forth. Let's keep it locked. What are we going to do then? Because we took this budget to work on the Supreme Council, we're already responsible for it. And another challenge that wasn't said here in the hall, but he needs to be spoken for. You've all seen and all the witnesses of the second half of the year have been marked by a decline in economic growth, especially industrial production. This is the main structural position of GDP. We're going to have a miracle on January 1st, and suddenly we're going to have a jumpy growth. And the second challenge is that inflation is going to reach you this year, you know what parameters. It's probably going to be at least 15, 5, or 16 percent. And we know why this happened! It was the second half of the year that these figures came up, because the non-fertilized year and the price of food, and it was traveling around the world, and no wonder, the grain will be expensive and as of January 1. And the second reason is that 40 percent cash in the consumer market is not provided with product coverage. These are challenges. The answer must be given immediately through the budget. We answer, yes, partly through social protection. And the other answers we have to give in three months with this room, together, colleagues. Two Ukrainian governments made this budget. Let's vote for him and support the new government in this difficult moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u59	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich conveys the word Papiev Mikhail Mikolaiovich, a faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u60	Thank you. Dear people's deputies, the way we now accept the budget, well, it's absolutely, absolutely unacceptable. When the minister of finance comes out, he hears a thousand figures. And we have the hearing to make a decision and vote in person. This has never been the case even in the case of Bushmism. So, dear fellows, I didn't hear the lead. First. How is morality manifested by the government today? Because we've all heard that 50 percent of the citizens' savings in the Savings of Ukraine were promised to return this year is 65 billion dollars. There are no numbers in the State Budget project. The other one. There's an order from the President of Ukraine, by the way, that he gave during the cabinet meeting in mid-November this year, that before the budget was approved, he would approve a new list of food, non-food and services that make up the minimum of living, i.e. the consumer basket. Because the subsistence minimum that is now being approved in the budget is in the state of May last year. Experts have now calculated that the subsistence minimum for working persons should be 765 dollars, not 633, as budgeted, i.e. reduced by 132 bracelets. And you know what the minimum wage depends on it. Therefore, the minimum wage should be set at 688 dollars, not 515 dollars. Today you reduce your minimum wage by 173 bracelets. The minimum wage for disabled persons, including a minimum pension, should be 596 dollars. You're adhering to 470 dollars. Each pensioner has 126 bracelets a month. Dear colleagues, the only tariff network, you have promised to introduce it since January 1, 2008. In the State Budget project, I read: ‘From 1 November’. And we know that this month's salary is paid for the previous month, so actually in 2008, no budget worker will get a salary on a single tariff grid. Children of war, you know, the rule of law -- 30 percent of the minimum wage -- is 156 dollars. What you're giving today is a mockery of the people. Dear colleagues, I'm not talking about the benefits anymore. You're actually doing, you know, it's a thieving thing today. You're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, you're taking, So the position of the Party of the Regions of Ukraine and our faction. We're not going to vote for this anti-national, for this blasphemous budget, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u61	Thank you. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u62	Please pass the word to Allie Alexandrovni Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u63	Excuse me, the word of Alexandria. The word Alli Alexandrovni. Please, Alla Alexandrovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, we have not seen such unprecedented disrespect for the Supreme Council and such inability to work. We don't have a document with you. The Government has not made it possible for us to submit a draft document, a draft regulation amending the law they have proposed to us. That is why we must clarify the individual positions here in order to be sure that this will be done. The Minister of Finance had just said that no decision had been taken to exclude from the draft law all provisions relating to the sale of agricultural land. I quote: Article 52, paragraph 13, paragraph 19: “Delete Part Four of Article 52, delete”. [[This relates to the sale of land]] It's in that document that we voted with you today. This relates to the sale of agricultural land. Therefore, the Communist faction insists that this position should be carried out by the Government. Next. We agreed, we made proposals, and those proposals were supported by the budgetary committee and were first confirmed by the Government that they were implementing the following: the deletion of paragraph 21 in section two of the draft law, which deals with restrictions on the benefits of war veterans and guarantees of their social protection; section 22, section two of the draft law relating to the Law on Victims of Nazi Persecution and also limited their right to benefits; section 23, paragraph 23, of the second law, which limits the right of persons granted to them by the Law on the Social Protection of Veterans and Other Citizens; and paragraph 29, which gives them the right to benefits of Chernobyl. We have demanded that the amendments to these laws set forth in these paragraphs of the Budget Act be excluded so that the benefits of these people, these categories of citizens, are never limited by anything or anyone, especially by the representatives of the orange coalition, who in the elections, by deceiving voters, have confidence in them and now restrict people's right to these benefits. We insist, Communists, that the Government fulfil its obligations to the people of Ukraine and pay the contributions it has promised. And we demand 12 billion. were included in the income and expenditure portion of the budget in order to meet the commitments that Timoshenko announced here, from this rostrum, in the Supreme Council Hall. This is the position of the Communist faction by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u65	Thank you. Zarubinski Oleg Aleksandrovich, “Block of Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u66	Thank you. Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! The Lithuanian "Block of Lithuania" was very constructive, as always, when it came to the previous vote. Don't laugh, nothing would have been voted on without us, you know that. But we were surprised by something else. Answering the very specific questions of Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin, Viktor Mikhailovich, you may simply not have been able to answer the question: what about the terms on which the calculated change to some of the legislative acts of Ukraine is said here, because it is 102 entirely new laws, completely new laws? We are interested in whether this will work by March 31st, 2008 as a member of the coalition of colleagues Karmazin proposed whether this will work by January 1, 2009, as proposed by the member of the Lithuanian Block. Without that answer, we cannot vote. I think you understand that very well. This is the first position. Second position. I've been here. Please don't disturb me! Second position. Here was Victor Mikhailovich’s trailer for nothing and there was no mention of the sale of agricultural land. Ladies and gentlemen, this document, whether it's the 2008 non-admission of the budget by 1 January, includes this situation -- it's Minfine, I understand that -- it's not going to be sold to the land of the agricultural assignment of SPZFOND minus 2.5 billion dollars. That is, if this budget is not accepted, there will be no 2.5 billion from the sale of agricultural land. So I'm going to ask you to explain and figure this out. And the last. Dear colleagues, considering what is certain is incomprehensible. Frankly, it's not the first year, it always happens when you take a budget. What's more, when we don't have a table, there's nothing we can really even impact on budgeting. But it seems to us that, under such conditions, it would be absolutely appropriate for the Minister of Finance, as he has read this document quite clearly, to read this brochure exactly as clearly into the coma of formulations that apply in the position expressed by the people's deputies, first of all I say to myself, the factions of the “Livina Block” and which the Head of the Supreme Council have been defined as being accepted. We're interested in a very clear formulation. And the last. You know, it's not even a question of money, it's a question of conscience. And I feel like you can't take it away from her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u67	Thank you. Karmazin Yuri Anatoliyovich conveys the word Paul Zebrovski, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u68	Dear Chairman! Madam Prime Minister! Dear colleagues! In fact, the sedentary point determines the point of thought. One minister of social policy prepared social expenses. They're improved, they're enlarged, but unfortunately, two weeks later, or 10 days later, he doesn't like what he's been cooking. Well, let it be on his conscience, and let him think about how to speak when he speaks the truth. Of course, the budget is imperfect, and we realize that. Of course, we understand that enough social expenditure has been put, to an extreme extent, in all the positions with which “Our Ukraine – the People’s Self-Defense” went to the elections included in this budget. Of course, they wanted to increase, and they would definitely be increased. Of course, one item is out of the question when working on it: 20 percent increase in wages for rural teachers, doctors. This will be done in furtherance. Firstly, I would like to point out that we have made a clear agreement on the budget committee, agreed with the government that by the end of March-month there will be a substantially revised budget, the 2008 Budget Act. I am convinced that we will have a much more stable time to verify every digit, every formulation, to make it clear to every deputy, and to all the people of Ukraine. Clearly, there are many questions that we are about to make changes to. And that's why, including, we made a compromise decision. For that reason, there was a proposal by the faction “Our Ukraine” that we must. It's got an action. The change is only until March 31st, but we agreed. And, in fact, we can't believe our government that when we work on the budget, we will definitely review those changes that we are making and will vote on today. I'm convinced that the inadequacies that there is, of course, will be eliminated, and in fact we will have a quality product that will be proud of both the coalition and the government. Dear colleagues, for us, "Our Ukraine – the People's Self-Defense" are a few questions of principle. And I'd like to focus. First of all, a moratorium on land. We also agreed and decided that by March 31st, or April 1st, all the changes had been made by the government and, in fact, after the approval of these, Earth cadastre and other legislative acts, we would have taken down the moratorium on land and, in fact, we would not have decommissioned the land, and the ground would go around and it would be, including, a mortgage bond and so on. In addition, I would like to stress that there is a clear agreement with the government that is working on the budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u69	Half-second, okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u70	I'd like to say that we have an agreement with the government on the fact that 2 percent of GDP will be directed at the Armed Forces of Ukraine. I think it's also the area of "Our Ukraine" and we'll be qualitatively responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u71	Dear colleagues, now the next situation, I would like your attention. Now we've talked about a lot of things about the draft Ukrainian State Budget Act. In view of the direct broadcast of our meeting, I would like to refer to the committee headed by Mr. Terjochin and to the finance minister of Ukraine. The President of Ukraine will not sign the draft law on the State Budget in the event that proposals are taken into account that do not actually allow Ukraine to join the World Trade Organization. [[Applause]] So I'm asking that this issue be settled now, first of all. I made you aware that there would be no questions: Who, when, and with whom, and in what situation? The other one. According to the insistence of Alexander Alexander Omelchenka, I quote once again that language comes when the Cabinet of Ministers, with the participation of the profile committees, analyzes the changes that have been made and not only for consideration but also for decision-making. Alexander Alexanderovich, I'm going to repeat this phrase again. But that phrase was said by Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik here in the rostrum. This was the last point of the proposal that I personally made, but I repeat it. The third paragraph, honourable colleagues, is now expressed all positions relating to the accounting or non-accounting of the basic provisions of the draft Ukrainian law on budgetary sustainability. Formally, legally, I'm going to stress once again what Victor Mikhailovich said, in his words, it became clear to me that he counted the maximum he could count. It would seem that the factions have now been determined as to whether to vote or not in relation to the relevant Ukrainian State Budget Act. Victor Fedorovich Janukovic, if you please, I would like to address you: here is a statement from you and from Peter Mikolaiovich that you wanted to reconcile your positions once again. From what I understand, you've just expressed your vote position. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich expressed himself and made a statement to Alexandrovska. In view of this and in view of the fact that this statement came about an hour and a half ago, I ask that we proceed to the voting procedure. If you don't mind. Vladimir Mikhailovich, tell me you are. If you don't mind, we need to find out where the WTO is right now -- once, and whether there's an insistence that you finally determine the position after the vote. But you've already declared it. That's why. Well, what are we going to do now? So I'm asking you to clarify your position on the SAT. Once again, I want to reiterate that there will be no law signed in such an order. It's not my position, it's just been handed over to me by the President of Ukraine, because it doesn't allow for the report of the working group to be approved. Please, Terjehochin and Pinzenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u72	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. I just brought the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Volodymyrni Timoshenko. I'm very sorry, can I have the Chief's attention? Arsen Petrovich, you're mine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u73	I'm sorry, everybody. Please, Sergey Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u74	Follow me for 20 seconds plus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u75	Okay. Okay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u76	I have just brought the Prime Minister of Ukraine a copy of the last great country to join the Soviet Union, Vietnam, where it is written that they have transitional periods until 2012. This copy is located right there on the rostrum. That's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u77	Let me finish, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u78	You know, it's very important for us to vote on this budget today. The Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have done a bit of titanic work. But if we're going to have this adoption next year, somewhere in April months, we're going to get shock for the agrarian sector, plus 20 percent without subsidies that weren't planned in the budget, you're going to have to decide. Under the WTO rules, there is no problem with the end of the fiscal year under the old rules of GAAT, either. So I don't know who told the President to call you with a message like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u79	Colleagues, I didn't hear an answer. I don't want to. Victor Fedorovich, from you, Andri Petrovich Klavov insists that you want to be definitively determined by the law, along with Peter Mikolaiovich. Yeah? Yes. Colleagues, I'm asking for silence. We've only got 30 minutes left to work. In view of this, I ask that the requests and communists be granted and the factions of the Party of the Regions be carried out. Up to 30. If they require 30, I have to do it only under the Rules. We all have to shake things up about the SATs. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please. Comrades, don't quarrel. Please. Let's get this budget back to normal. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u80	Dear colleagues!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u81	It seems that this budget needs someone else.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u82	I'm asking everyone to calm down. Arsenius Petrovich, your honor, let us deal with you. Since it is critical for us, I understand how critical it is for us to adopt the budget, first, to make it as clear to us as the Minister of Finance has read the document that we had, that he has said the formulation of "morators," second, the WTO, third, to what period in which the 102 new laws are in force. Our position was that of January 1, 2009. So that it's clearly fixed. After that, we can go and consult in order to make an effective decision. I want to pay particular attention to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u83	Volodymyr Mikhailovich! There's one more thing I'd like to remind you. We agreed here that, so that it would not happen in this country, in any case, it will receive a new edition of the Ukrainian State Budget Act in two months. And that's the norm that's imperatively written. I don't object to your suggestions, but I'm asking that we all understand what we've written down to the government's mandatory budget review in the normal process, not in the sprinting process. Victor Mikhailovich Pinzenik. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u84	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! You mentioned my last name in connection with the WTO standard. I would like to remind you of the session where the report was made by the head of the budget committee, and I said that we have all positions in agreement with the government. The government's position on this rule was not the same, and we put forward a draft law that stipulated that this rule was in effect until the time of the WTO entry. The government had no other position. And on the budget committee, the government was very clear on that position. This rule was supported here after the statement by the head of the Committee on Budgets.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u85	Colleagues, here's the next offer. We have 30 minutes. Let's do it again, let's finally agree on all the proposals, and in 30 minutes, I'm asking questions about voting under any circumstances. Period. All of it. Please. Please go upstairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u86	Dear friends! I'm asking you to take your seats. Come on. We've had our breaks, our consultations, our compromises, which we've done so much for each other. Dear colleagues, there is a further request. In view of the fact that the two factions took a break and, in fact, I've just consulted three factions: the Lithuanian Block, the Regional Party and the Communist Party of Ukraine, they have expressed a desire to comment on the procedure. You won't deny it. Comrades, be quiet! Quiet, please. We are bound by the Rules to give them the word. And it's going to be right for people to explain what they've been consulting about and what decisions they've made. I'm asking the three factions to give in one minute if the Yulia Tymoshenko Block and our Ukraine don't insist on the performance? Don't you insist? Thank you very much. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, Communist Party of Ukraine, turn on the microphone, please, Petra Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u87	The Communist faction. We insist once again on limiting the actions of the laws set out in the second chapter of the draft budget, which will virtually turn the Cabinet of Ministers into the Supreme Council. And in this case, as a precautionary measure, we can consider the term of these laws to the maximum by 1 January 2009. There's no other way. And there's no other option -- that's the first one. Secondly, definitely what has to do, the moratorium on land, I want to confirm once again all of what we talked about at the budget committee meeting and here, Alexandrovska raised in the hall. And the third. It does. delete items 21, 22, 23 and 29 from chapter two, we talked about it all the time. And the third. This has to do with the introduction of Ukraine to WTO and the standard proposed, and this is exactly what Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvina proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u88	Thank you, I'm asking you to give the floor to the Party of the Regions, who will be speaking from the Party of the Regions? Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u89	Thank you. Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine, distinguished colleagues. We've already gone to all the violations that were possible and impossible. We are now approving two laws under the State Budget Act: the State Budget Act and the law amending more than a hundred laws in Ukraine, by the procedure of the State Budget Act, which is where the first violin, you know, is played by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And the State Budget Act is adopted by a special procedure. So in chapter three, the Ukrainian Party of Regions proposes to do so and the faction to do so. Second item. “The second chapter takes effect from 1 January 2008 and runs until 31 March 2008.” By the way, I would like to ask the block “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense” to support this proposal because I have made a statement to her national deputy, Carmazin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u90	Thank you. “Block of Lithuania”, who will speak from Vladimir Mikhailovich? Litvin Vladimir Mikhailovich, turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u91	Dear colleagues, in order to constructively complete our work, we are again making such a strong proposal that it be clearly stated that the VAT in the village is in place by 1 January next year after the year of ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the instruments for the entry into the World Trade Organization. That's the first one. And the second. That the one hundred and two laws that we are enacting today are being completed on January 1, 2009. At the same time, I would like to say that we are ready to vote in favour of the proposal of the People's Deputy Carmazin on March 31, 2008. We would urge that this be clearly repeated and recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u92	Dear friends, let me take on the most responsible mission to generalize all your suggestions as I ran from one faction to another and, in principle, I have a historical memory of what was said. It's number one. We align the term of the Ukrainian Act on State Budget 2008 with the amendments and additions to the legislation contained in the second chapter of the Act, translating into plain language, in fact, we define the term of the law as a whole, including the second chapter of this Act on 31 December 2008. Comrades, quiet, I'll tell you what, you've got March and we've got December. December 31, 2008. Item two. This was arranged by all the factions that were three factions. Colleagues, second paragraph of the APK. We're leaving the norm that Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin said, I don't want to repeat it, but the norm that was under Lithuania's stenogram. The government is given a mandate in the final positions in order to finally address the issue of the functioning of the APC and the entry into WTO as such by 15 January to develop and present legislation to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to stimulate the development of the APC under the WTO requirements. Okay? Okay. Question three. Comrades, question three. The third question is, we don't have it. We've got everything else taken off, we've talked about it, we've talked about it as much as we can. I ask you to put to the vote draft Ukrainian Law number, half a second or so, number 1285 "On the State Budget for Ukraine 2008" and to amend some of the legislative acts with changes, Peter Mikolaiovich, I'll tell you now, don't worry, I'll tell you everything as we agreed, don't interrupt me, because we're going to be lost in three dreams. I repeat. The bill of Ukrainian law, registration number 1285, “On Ukraine’s 2008 State Budget”, and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts with changes contained in the Committee’s conclusions, right? That's the first one. The other one. They are approved by Parliament. And the third. Supported by the Cabinet of Ministers. Also included by Kabmin in his address to the Supreme Council of Ukraine since December 28, 2007. In doing so, it is meant that the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Budget Issues is using, in general, all the items that I have announced, a transcript of the meeting and a transcript of the Committee on Budgetary Questions. Vladimir Mikhailovich Litwin, please. And, comrades, we are already, already, already, already going to happen. Vladimir Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u93	Dear colleagues, we have agreed, in addition to everything else, that before the faction vote is put forward, there will be statements arguing their position before this decision is taken. I want to say again, my dear colleagues, I understand that you need to stand up. But we take the budget once a year. And each faction should clearly quote its position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u94	Well, comrades, are you making fun of me or what?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u95	Do you need a budget, or do you just need to prove yourself right? If that suits you, please take the pressure method.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u96	Once again, colleagues, let's be true and tolerant of each other. Well, you asked for one minute. I gave you all one minute at a time. You're asking again. Well, it's not a question, just another minute, Vladimir Mikhailovich. I'll ask you next. Let's do this. We counted it all. We've already agreed. We've talked about this five times. Let us vote, and after the voting procedure, as provided by the Rules, for reasons of vote, each will speak and say with what disgust he voted in favour of the budget. Please. And, excuse me, excuse me, comrades, nor the moratorium on land is included in the formulation in which it was formulated. Well, we've already given our point of view. But here we go, comrades. Please. Let's get out of here after the vote. I'm asking a question for a vote. Vote. For 235. Dear friends, please, please. Sit down, sit down. It's a great victory, but it's not as big as we think it is. Because I'm asking you to show by factions. For 235. Decision taken. Colleagues, I'm asking everyone to calm down. Colleagues, please sit down. I'm asking you to sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. Now for the reasons of the vote. I give my word, colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen, there's respect for the left side of the hall. Well, I'm asking you to sit down. Well, they accepted the budget, that's all. Big win. In just two months, there will be a copy of it. Have a seat, please. What a terrible thing! It's not for you, it's for the whole country! Everything has to be copied. I'm asking colleagues to give a word on the grounds of the vote. Please sign up for the reasons for the vote. Litwin Volodymir Mihajlovich, “Block Lithuania”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u97	Arseny Petrovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u98	I am.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u99	I want to say again why the faction didn't vote. We made a deal with you. [[B in m in s a l in]] Just a minute. Arseny Petrovich, I want to say again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u100	Comrades, give the word to Vladimir Mikhailovich Litvin. We're not going to have to hold another vote, not just on this budget. Not "disgusting," Volodymyr Mikhailovich. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u101	I'm asking you to redo the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u102	All right, Vladimir Mikhailovich. Talk to me. Speak, please. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u103	Dear colleagues, Arsenius Petrovich, once again, when we agreed with you, you said that it would take three minutes for the representatives of each faction to speak in order to argue their position on the budget vote. We've been waiting for three minutes, you've let us down in this regard, Arsenija Petrovich, and you haven't fulfilled the agreement that we had the right to speak. And I want to say, "So wrongly and unfairly, you have founded a faction, Arsenia Petrovich."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u104	Colleagues, please, come on, be quiet. The law is passed in general. I'm very sorry that not all of them voted as they voted. Peter Mikolaiovich Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u105	Dear colleagues, distinguished radio listeners. The Communist faction speaking from the Supreme Council's rostrum gave an assessment of this budget, and once again, it's not the State Budget, it's the budget that divides the influence of financial and industrial groups. That's the first one. It's different. In these circumstances, which are currently being discussed in the budget, it does not provide for a deep study and a basic direction for the development of the state, and so on, the moments that will contribute to the development of the state, but it is also populist, because very many claims have been made regarding what will be the main commitments – the return of savings, the increased payments to women at the birth of the child, the orphans, the students, the pensioners, that is, the social guarantees that have been made during the elections. The Communist faction was ready to consider it, and we insisted on it, just by expressing our point of view, and we're going to protect all of the social benefits that are being paid to our citizens, who have made good money and savings, today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u106	Who will be speaking from. Dry Jaroslav, faction is a party of regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u107	My fellow Members, of course, I would not ask for a word, but I would be pleased to see the victory of the democratic coalition, which has accepted its budget, had it not been for this roaring and savage violence that has been accompanied by our speeches. You don't want to hear from anyone, you don't want to understand that we're behind the voters, that we have the right to stand by our point of view. You're trying to break us over your knee. I promise you this was your last false vote. There are 197 members of the National Democratic Coalition. Congratulations, you've adopted an adventurous budget with a false number of votes! That's the price!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u108	Thank you. “Julia Tymoshenko’s Block”. To whom is the word given? Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovitch wants to speak from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u109	Dear fellows, honourable voters, your esteemed Head, your esteemed government! Let me thank the representatives of our coalition colleagues from this rostrum, the "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense" bloc, to thank that group of communists who supported the budget. ..to thank all those who have helped us bring upon ourselves an extremely difficult, responsible burden. It would be much easier to take the budget that the previous government had prepared and to come to the hall without doing anything. So, what's it gonna be? Maybe 400 votes. We made additional social commitments and thanks for our support. Thank you for the load you gave us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u110	"Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u111	Viacheslav Kirilenko, Block "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense". Dear colleagues! Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers! Today, we have fulfilled our next commitment to our electorate. We said, "in a fast time, we're going to adopt the social budget." We did so, no matter what our failures were. Thanks to today's January 1st vote, regardless of which block they voted for, they will have higher pensions, higher salaries, higher scholarships, higher maintenance for military personnel and other issues they discussed during this year. During these days, we went to meet colleagues from the minority faction repeatedly. Today, the head of parliament has declared a recess many times and has given the floor to the disagreeable. The government went to concessions, the government went to concessions in the part where it could be done so that the economy could develop and not be affected by the social sphere. So I think that the movement through the fulfilment of our obligations to the electorate is our general line. We'll get him. And we welcome Ukraine with a new social state budget.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-28-m1.u112	Dear friends, allow me two words to the Head of the Supreme Council. I'll be grateful. We fulfilled our commitment to a government that entered the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine just nine days ago. We've given the government a lot of credit. We've deviated from a number of legal and legislative acts for one reason: so that the country doesn't go to a social catastrophe in the matter of pension payments, wages and everything else. I think the government highly values this trust loan, which is not infinite. That's the first one. The other one. By adopting this budget, we are now immediately starting work on the normal procedure for amending and supplementing the State Budget Act. Because this trust loan that's been issued has nothing to do with the strategic goals and tasks that we have to carry out in 2008. In this way, we will, as Parliament, insist on the implementation of all the paragraphs of the “Principal Regulations” that have been introduced by me, including the Government Action Programme, the State Economic and Social Development Programme and the new edition of the State Budget Act. I think we've done very well for each other today. I appreciate the things that the Ministry of Finance and Kabmin have done in taking into account the mass of the proposals of the Party of Regions, the Communist Party and the "Block of Lithuania". After all, a dialogue took place today. What they didn't vote on is their political position. But this budget, which it's not, there's no good budgets, it's not even one color. He's a government budget. Nevertheless, we face an incredible number of challenges and challenges. So our next 15th meeting, and March 1st, we're going to be looking at the State Budget in a new edition. I welcome you all, dear friends, first of all with Christmas Christ, second of all with New Year's Eve, so we can all have a nice drink and definitely meet with you 15 numbers at 10:00 a.m. Thank you, everyone, for the next time. [[Applause]] I declare the evening session closed.
