ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u1	I'm asking you to take your seats. There's a roll call, please. [[16:06:25]] -445 registered. They want to share in the discussion of the order of the day of the 445 national deputies. The evening session shall be declared open. We have such a wide Presidency, look. Apparently they're standing there for free, they're standing here, so they've written a statement for a half hour break or a statement. So I think it's better to make a statement, right? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u2	Dear colleagues! Igor Krill, “Our Ukraine”. We're right here at the rostrum for one simple reason. Today, the question of the release of Judge Muchachev of the Vladimir Monić District Court is scheduled to be considered in the order of the day. Why do we think that this question should be removed? In accordance with the Law “On the Order of Elections and Derogation from the Supreme Council” in accordance with Article 20, the second paragraph: the participation of the judge elected in a timely manner on which the application of his discharge from office in the meeting of the Supreme Council Committee is considered is mandatory, except in the cases mentioned in paragraphs 2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 9 of article 26 of the Constitution of Ukraine. What are those points? It is the desire, the attainment of the age limit, the state of health, the establishment of the validity of the indictment, the cessation of citizenship, and death. As we see here, there is not exactly a point to which it is proposed that the court be dismissed. The main charge of the High Council of Justice, which is brought before the Supreme Council Committee for its consideration, is that the judge had no right to accept the case. He had the right and was obliged to do so, since article 19, paragraph 2, of the Code of Administrative Justice, states: “Administrative matters relating to the prosecution of legal acts of an individual act, as well as the actions and omissions of entities of authority that relate to the interests of a particular person shall be decided by the administrative courts at the place where the applicant resides. I'm going to give you the motive for my statement that was filed with the Mukatov Interregional Court. I'm a Ukrainian citizen, I ask, let me tell you and act normal. I am a Ukrainian citizen. I have rights that are protected by the Constitution. My rights are guaranteed by the President of Ukraine. The adoption of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which significantly reduces the President's mandate, took place. Moreover, the procedure for adopting and passing this legislative act was violated, and when I heard that the Head of the Supreme Council was going to publish it despite everything I said, I realized that my rights were being violated and those actions were being taken against me personally. I had the right to appeal to a court of law, and the court was obliged to accept that application. And since these are actions that are individual against me, I had the right to go to court for a place of residence. In addition, the Supreme Council of Justice has the right to consider such claims if there is a decision of the higher courts to revoke such approvals. To date, there is no court ruling in Ukraine that has reversed that approval. And I'm going to say a few words right now, which is my belief. When there is chaos in the state, when chaos between branches of power, then this branch of authority, called a judicial branch, should, according to current legislation, decide these matters. Today there is a desire to subdue this branch of authority, so we are against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u3	Thank you. I'm asking for your attention. Wait a minute! Please! Igor Ivanovich. I'm calm. But he said everything. Igor Ivanovich, we will not have a discussion, she has fully understood everything. You have the right to stand up for your political position, because in this case it's not about the legal side of the matter. I was approached by Mikola Vasilovich Onichuk and explained that according to the law, the question of the dismissal of a judge on the committee should be with the invitation of the judge to the committee. Since there was no such invitation and the committee acknowledges it, today we will not simply consider the matter, but we will actually consider it when such an invitation occurs. So I would ask you, sit down, and a political evaluation of this, I think society has already given and will be given. Well, please. I don't hold a committee meeting, and I'm not the committee head. I'm just suggesting. This question will not be considered today. Take your seats. I say we don't have to discuss this today. [[B in m in s a l in]] Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Ladies and gentlemen, Alexei Yuriovich Kravchenko today, well, under personal circumstances, and more simply, he needs to go to the hospital. Well, wait a minute! He should leave the meetings, and today he has two final questions. In the morning, he asked to be given a word for an account. I'd like your permission to consider this. Cowboy's word. I'm sorry, Puppy. Well, it does, yeah. But I've just been mutilated. I ask you, if you don't mind looking at two small draft laws now: amending the State and Municipal Property Rental Act and concessions, 2001, 2002, - I'm voting to have it now. There's a vote coming. [[16:13:38]] For 165 What, what? No, let's say that we approved a bill approving a state-wide anti-terrorist program. Draft law on social dialogue. Oh, we've moved on the question of judges since the morning. Please come to the rostrum for a report. Please. Head of the subcommittee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u4	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is on draft Decree No. 3132. Let's focus, please. The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered the appointment of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Ukraine and the heads of the Supreme Specialised Courts on the selection of the judges mentioned in the draft. According to the court’s procedure, the name of the judge is read, and the judge rises from the seat. If there is a warning to him, the national deputies report it from place to place. Such a judge is temporarily removed from the draft ruling, and we return to the hearing after the other judges have voted. The judges are in the guest bed and on the balcony. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: The Supreme Court of Ukraine, Mr. Aleksandra Antonovich, Taran Tetjan Stepanovna; the Court of Appeal of the Lviv Region of the Priklot Jury Andryovich; The Dnipropetroval Administrative Court of Flood Vladimir Yuriovich, Turkin Leonil Petrovna; Lviv Administrative Court of Appeal Bagriy Vasil Mikolaiovich, Longfield Alexander Mihajlovich, Kushnerik Marjan Petrovic; Kharkiv’s Administrative Court of Appeal, Filatov Yulia Mikolaiovich; Odessa’s Court of Appeal, Gladysev Tetjana Yakovna; Sevastopol Farm Court of Appeal Kotlar Olen Leonidivna; the local Bershad District Court of the Viennese Region of Polotniank Yuri Petrovich; the local Pavlovgrad District Court of Dnipropetrov district of Dadim Julius Mikolayevna; The local Kramator City Court of the Donetsk Region of Gruieczko Ludmila Alexandrovna; the local Polodów District Court of the Zaporozhye district of Museika Jakov Volodymyrovich; the local Ishmael Regional Court of Odessa, Sweden, Viacheslav Mikhailovich, I apologize, Mikolaiovich; the local Kovpak district court of Suma Sopjanenka Alexandr Volodymirovich; the local Lozov Regional Court of Kharkiv District of Mishursk Svetlana Timofievna; the local desnian district court of Chernigova Vorontsov Svetrovna; the local Novozavod Regional Court of Chernigova Shipova Igora Mikolaajovic; The local Wallin District Administrative Court, Alexander's Maria Ananiyevna; the local Donetsk District Administrative Court of Bilak Svetlana Viktorovna; the local Ternopil district administrative court of Šulgač Mikol Petrovich; the local Kharkiv District Administrative Court of Jury of Oksan Vasilovna; the local Cherkas District Administrative Court of Kovalenk Vasil Ivanovich; the local Czernovetsk District Administrative Court of Kovaljuk Jaroslav Juriovich; the local court of the Wallin district of Kravczuk Antonin Mikhailnovna; the local court of commerce of the Dnipropetrov region of Dubinin Igor Yuriovich and Parhomenko Natalija Volodymyrna, Local Commercial Court of the Luhansk Region of Minsk Tetjan Mikolayevna; The local courts of the Lviv district of the Greeks, Vera Mikhailnovna, my apologies, Mikolayevna, Guti's Basilovna Faith and China's Svetlana Bogdanovna; the local court of the Odessa district of Vlasov Svetlana Georgievna; The local court-martial of Kyiv Vashchenko Tetjan Mikolayovna, Trifimenko Tamar Yuriyovna and Jarmak Olga Mikhaylovna. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u5	As far as I could tell, the remarks were not against any of the judges. Is there no objection? May I put it to a vote? I'm voting on the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine ruling on the election of judges, number 3132. I'll bet you a vote, please. [[16:18:37]] For 412 “For” 412 national deputies. We can welcome the judges with their election. And wish them success in their extremely responsible cause and that they are always guided by the law and principles of justice. I think that's what it's going to be like, and our response activities for the different judges are going to be a kind of incentive for them. I think that's how it's going to be. Good luck to you all. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u6	Dear colleagues, draft decree number 3133 is proposed for consideration. The Committee on Justice at its session considered the application of the High Council of Justice for release in connection with the application for resignation of judges of appeals and local courts. In their statements, the judges indicated that they had written them voluntarily. The Committee on Justice supported the submission and introduced a corresponding draft decree on February 7. Dear colleagues, is there a need to read the draft decree? It's given away. None. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine discharge the following judges: The Court of Appeal of the Vinnitsk Region of Jarmoszczuk, Vitalia Venedictovich, in connection with the application for a state of health pension, which prevents the continuation of the duties; The Court of Appeal of the Dnipropetrov District of Berdnikov Ludmila Leonidivna in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Donetsk Region of Vlasenko Ludmila Ivanovna in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Tambovtsev Region of Mikolayev Volodymyr Alexiyyovich - in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Czernovec Region of Iwaszuk Ludmila Grigorovna - in connection with the application for resignation; The Court of Appeal of the Chernigiv Region of Not-Time Leonid Antonovich - in connection with the application for resignation, School Vitali Vasilovich, the same court - in connection with the application for resignation; The local State District of the Donetsk region of Bahtin, Valentina Ivanovna, in connection with the application for resignation; the local Vilnius District Court of Zaporozhye County, Alexandr Leonidovich, in connection with the application for resignation; The local Heivoron District Court of Kirovgrad district of Kripak, Victoria Petrovna, in connection with the application for resignation; The local District Court of Kharkiv Hachaturov Mikolaajovic, in connection with the application for resignation. I'd like to make up my mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u7	Is there no objection? In fact, there is no legal basis for doubting it at all, so we must make such a decision. And I'm voting for a ruling on the release of judges. [[Registration number 3133]] There's a vote coming. [[16:21:43]] For 397 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u8	Dear colleagues! The Justice Committee at its session considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges from the local courts in connection with their violation of the judge’s oath. The Justice Committee supported the submission and issued a corresponding draft decree for registration number 3134. The Supreme Council's draft of the review materials is distributed to you by the Higher Justice Council. As to the substance of the violations committed by judges, I can count them. Yes, after studying the audit materials of the High Council of Justice, the Committee concluded that failure to comply with the requirements of effective legislation, unconscionableness and objectivity in the judicial proceedings concerning the collection of public funds for the benefit of the plaintiffs was detrimental to the State budget of Ukraine, and the violation by the judge of the local European District Court of Justice of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea by Ivan Ivanović, a violation of the oath. In view of what he is subject to his release from office. Another judge in the ruling goes on, Burda Petr Aleksyovich. This is the local Petropavlovsk Riesud of the Dnipropetrov region. In the decision, the decision was taken to provide for the application of the PFC “Dniprovia” and. The Serbian State Property Fund of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the third party, the Bank of Ukristok and the Alphainvest for the protection of the right of the property of a good-for-good acquirer, have been subjected to gross violations of legislation that are incompatible with the appointment of a judge. The judge of the local Pokrovsk Rajsud Dnipropetrovsk district of Lashko Anatoli Mikolajovich, in handling civil cases, who had called for the VAT-related “Prussian GZK” and its shareholders, showed impartiality and prejudice, allowed a substantial violation of the rules of law, thereby violating the duties and oaths of the judge. Substantial violations by Judge Lashko of the rules of law and the duties of the judge and the constitutional principles of judiciality, an unconscionable basis for his dismissal from the judge’s office in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. We still have Judge Monich, but you heard he was removed. Judge of the local Lenin District Court of Mikolayeva, Josan Victoria Mikhaylovna In a resolution on the granting of a 10 share claim with a nominal value of 10 copies, the VAT “Herson Combin” and any legal persons were banned, any action taken to commit a crime, and a full-scale VAT complex “Herson Combin” was arrested. In addition, the so-called citizen has been approved by this judge to ensure that the Luk-Gandza airline is not allowed to fly to Ukraine. Airports and cities of Ukraine are prohibited from accepting, serving aircraft of this airline, and the Ukrainian State Service for Aviation Safety is obliged to cancel all permits and decisions to allow this airline to fly in Ukraine. The judge’s actions are an indication of her unconscionable attitude toward the performance of her duties. There's an appropriate application from the High Council of Justice. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u9	I'm putting to the vote a draft decision on. Questions? Please, a question. Oleg Valeriyovich Ljashko did not understand everything; he was given the right to ask questions. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u10	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Dear Mr. Head! I've got it all figured out. I don't need to fool people. With regard to the release of Bezvolak John Ivanovich, Judge of the Eupatoriaan Court of Crimea. Read what he's getting fired for? For punishing people who had been wronged and then imprisoned for not being a part of the crime, he condemned the return of compensation for moral and material matters. I mean, a man is illegally in prison, a judge pays him back for it, and he gets fired for it. So what are you firing people for? I'm going to ask you a question about Bezouk to take off and take a look at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u11	Valerius Anatolyevich, comment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u12	Dear colleagues! And, by the way, Mr. Oleg, I invite you not to raise a question from the voice right now, we've already confessed. Please come to the committee if you have any conviction that this court is in line with the position you are taking, and bring it to the committee members. Yesterday, in detention, if I am not mistaken for two members of the committee, the decision was made unanimously, except for two that were retained. There's relevant materials, there's help and there's the High Council of Justice. If the judge thinks he's being illegally dismissed, please let him press charges. You asked me a question, let me answer that. Let him go to court and challenge the decision of the High Council of Justice. But we had a proper submission and, by the way, there was a letter from Judge Bezwulak, who asked not to consider what he had submitted, but there was no decision that he had already won or won the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u13	I am voting on the proposal to release Judge Bezvolak Ivan Ivanovich because the discussion arose here. Please. Please, Bezlujak Ivan Ivanovich, please. [[16:27:04]] For 248 He's fired. Burda, Lazko and Josan. In accordance with Decree 3134, vote is taken, please. [[16:27:31]] For 295 Decision taken, thank you. Does everything seem to be in your possession?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u14	No, another judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u15	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u16	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Justice at its session has considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the dismissal of the judge of the local court in connection with the violation of the oath of the judge, the registration number of the draft order has been issued to us in 3134, bearing 1. As to the substance of the violations committed by the judge. Judge Dzuba’s district court, Nadija Mikhailna, as a result of negligence, imposed a penalty in the form of a deprivation of the will of a person who, at the time of the commission of the crime, was a friend over the grave, who could not have reached the age from which a criminal responsibility could take place, resulting in illegal detention of a person in places where he had been deprived of his liberty for more than a year. The Justice Committee unanimously decided not to recommend to the Supreme Council the release of Judge Juba Nadia Mikhailna. In making such a decision regarding the judge, the committee took into account the appointed time for her faultless work as a judge, which was the basis for her appointment as head of the court. The violation is not intentional, and neglect about setting a person’s age has been allowed under conditions under which a person has already been tried and convicted twice. The defendant’s age clearly raised no doubt about the judges, since a pretrial investigation had taken place and the accused had been approved by the prosecutor. Other circumstances were taken into account in which the matter was being considered. He's been going through a lot, and we've been sitting for almost four hours. In view of this, the committee is asking for its support and not to vote in favour of the draft decision. I mean, the judge showed up, she gave an explanation, and if I'm right, she's invited, we can ask her a question. That's why I'm asking. Yes. And our colleague from the committee adds, and the plaintiffs did not have any claims. I mean, they've written down the claims against this judge. So, on the contrary, I ask you to support this motion for a ruling and not to agree with the Supreme Council of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u17	Okay. Well, I guess. Do you want to ask a question? Sign up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u18	To the judge or to me?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u19	No, not a question to you. You're a widower. Four minutes to question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u20	Oleg Lazka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u21	Canned? Ask the Light question. Please clarify the situation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u22	But I already said, please pass the word to Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u23	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Well, dear colleagues, I am addressing representatives of the anti-crisis coalition and the leader. Well, what you do when you decide the fate of people, and the judges are the people you are, Victor Fedorovich, I want you to listen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u24	Turn off the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u25	What are you doing?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u26	Please speak essentially. You asked for the floor to ask the interviewer a question, ask him a question, and you address the whole world.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u27	As I understand it, Mr. Oleg's question, on the contrary, we suggest we leave this judge, leave her at work, because she provided an explanation, and I've explained all the circumstances. There's something you haven't figured out, Mr. Oleg.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u28	Once again I warn Oleg Láška, speak in essence, ask questions to the reporter and give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u29	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I'm asking a question in essence. That's what I define. And the Rules don't give you the right to turn off my microphone. So please, I have a question for you, Valery Volodymyrovich, and for the majority. Dear colleagues, what do you decide when it comes to a person’s fate? I've given you specific facts that a person has condemned compensation to victims and unlawfully attracted to criminal responsibility. He's getting fired for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u30	But that's not really what we've already voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u31	And you're voting for it! What about the judge? What about the judge?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u32	She's staying at work, Judge.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u33	And the judge who sentenced a minor who had no right to be held accountable at all, you suggest leaving the judge. Is that your justice?Oh, my God! What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u34	Valeriy Anatoliyovich, you've already answered that question. Now I'm going to answer because that's basically how he approached me. Oleg Valeriyovich, and you vote for your release. And that will be your right to do so. And you don't need calls to make. It's gonna be okay. You vote and she'll stay, or she'll be released. As you vote, that's how it's gonna be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u35	We're going to vote. Do you mind if I sit down?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u36	Please. I'm betting, uh, Lukianczuk is still. Wait a minute, Valérie Anatoliyovich, and Lukyanczuk wants to ask you, both Miroshnichenko and Kravchenko. Lukyanchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u37	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. After Oleg Lalashka, there's basically nothing left to ask. He has explained in principle, which is why I thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u38	Thank you. Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u39	I think that the hall today will be determined so that this so-called candidature of a judge may be ordered in its own direction, but left to work. A man made a mistake, sincerely repented. Well, Alexander Alexandrovich, that's what I'm trying to say. Well, there are judges in the hall who might be there once in a lifetime. Well, this show with Lassie, and you're acting like he's yelling his hand like this, you're giving it up every time. So there's order: they sign in, they pass the word, let him speak, let him not pass the word, let him not speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u40	Mikolo Vasilovich, the deputy of the Udovenko, gave him the floor. And the judges, our guests today, the smart people invited, they all make the right conclusions, just as you do. Please, Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u41	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Valery Anatolyovich, I'd like to ask you this question and even ask you a request. Please explain more to Mr. Lášk how the decision was made regarding those judges who are offered to waive their judicial authority. And pay particular attention to Judge Monich, because the invitation was completely objective from a legal point of view, all the lawyers on our committee, and the matter was essentially considered. So one point of view that we've heard and the entire Ukrainian people should be added to the alternative point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u42	Thank you for asking. Dear Chairman! Indeed, the discussion was lively, a formal requirement of law for a judge to be invited. Judge Monich has been informed that there is a mail receipt for sending a message. It was also reported that there was a meeting of the High Council of Justice, but it did not appear or appear on the committee. So, based on these reasons, we almost unanimously exclude the members of the committee, our three colleagues who didn't vote for it, they held back, by the way, they weren't against it, they didn't vote for it, we decided a judge. Monique freed. I would also like to point out that the honourable colleagues are already a judicial precedent, there is a case law. Personally, I, as a deputy, like our colleague who applied to the Chief of the Supreme Council, once after teaching in Feodosia, I applied to Prime Minister Yehanurov for a summons. So the court refused, and I agreed. My right was violated, and in an exceptional order, Kabmin’s decision to grant was taken.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u43	Allow the reporter to finish the word. Have a seat, please. I'm asking for your attention. Thus, the draft Supreme Council Decision on the release of Judge Juba is put to the vote. The committee believes that this proposal should not be supported, this decision. But she does vote. [[16:36:48]] For the five of us. That is, Judge Duba Mihailna's hope continues to work. That's one thing. The other one. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a member of the MP is given if he is. When he's humiliated, insulted or something. In this case, the claims were presented to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u44	Me!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u45	Wait! I'm sorry I'm giving you my word for nothing. I explained that Widowenko had given his word and protected himself. Take your seats, please. There isn't! Show me the rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u46	Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic participates in our session. Let's welcome him. Well, it's not the Prime Minister standing. You mean. So I would ask you to show me the article of the Rules where to put it! Please. Can you get out of here? Please. Please take your seats, all of you. Everybody, take your seats. I don't give rights, the Rules grant. But in this case there is no right, there is no right. Show me where this is written. All of it. Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u47	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with part 8 of article 83 of part 12 of the first article 85 and part 4 of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine, I submit the application for the appointment of Slauta Viktor Andriyovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u48	I'm inviting Deputy Slauto to the rostrum. Will You Speak or Answer Questions? Questions. Are there any questions you'd like to ask? None. That's why I'm voting. Oh, yeah? No problem. Sign up. Ten minutes. Carpuch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u49	Please give the floor to the deputy of Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u50	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Alexander Alexandrovich, I want to address you because I don't have Victor Andryovich's questions. I just see that all the heads of the State Building Committee become vice-premiers, that's a good trend. And I wish him success if he's chosen. And I'm here to see you, Alexander Alexandrovich, and I'm here to see you, Mr. Head. Please tell me, what is the urgent problem, indeed, in the village many problems to violate the rules that you do repeatedly? And once again you show disregard for regulations and disrespect to the Supreme Council. When this question was not considered on a profile committee, when the question was not put in order of the day. I call on Viktor Fedorovich to respect the Supreme Council regulations, not just to strangle us here as the last of the gravemen. And I want, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u51	I take your point, just as the previous practice exists here and the Rules do not provide that it is necessary to include personnel issues in the order of the day. They are treated when there is a need, and they are brought into Parliament’s consideration. That's what this is about. Please. Jaduzka, please, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u52	Thank you. First of all, I want to thank Viktor Andriyovich for how much we know him, and most of him in this room knows him long ago, in all positions he's linked his fate to the agricultural sector of the economy. His professional qualities and integrity may not need to be convinced today. And so, working together on the agrarian committee and land relations, we've once again found that this person who knows all the issues of the agrarian sector of the economy properly, and should be standing at this difficult time over this sector. And that's why I want the agrarian committee, from the faction of the Party of Regions, to invite all of us and ask everyone to support this appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u53	Boki.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u54	Dear colleagues! The wisest Ukrainian farmer, Feder Trophimovich Morgun, called me and said: “If Victor Andriyovich Slautu is to be recommended to the deputy prime minister on agriculture issues, support him, and say these words to me — a wise man, a wise peasant, wise as the earth and good as the earth.” I think that's exactly what Victor Andriyovich deserves with all his life and all his work. I call for support for Victor Andrievich Slauti's candidacy as Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u55	I'm a self-sacrifice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear Victor Andryovich, I know that you are a true farmer, I know that you love our land, that you love our village, and of course we will vote for your candidacy. She's on the ground, in the village she needs, she needs such a master. And I think, Victor Andryovich, honored that, along with my impertinence and plus your experience together, we will be able to revive my solar Tavria, our irrigation, that we will turn the Hersonian land into a real animal that will feed all of Europe and not just Europe. I'm more than sure that we're going to back you up, and I want you to serve our country and our peasants for the rest of your lives.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u57	Thank you, Catherine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u58	The quality.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u59	Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction “Our Ukraine”. I have a question not for Victor Andryovich, whom I know I respect, that he and I worked with on the committee as the head of the secretariat that I was. I have a question for the Head of the Supreme Council. Alexandre Alexandrovich, submitted by the President in accordance with the Constitution, in accordance with all the procedures and regulations for the appointment of the head of the Security Service and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. They are considered in the committees in accordance with the Rules. These questions are in order on a daily basis. Why are we now going to break the Rules suddenly, literally before the evening session, handing out documents and submitting a worthy candidate to such a discussion? And one more question. We've already given no thought to the concept of administrative reform that was approved in 1998 and yet how many vice-premiers are we going to have in every field? Or maybe everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u60	Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u61	Dear colleagues, we all know that everyone sitting in this room has already shown himself in this position. For the first time in his independence, the village began to live. All of 2004 has been the most successful for peasants since Ukraine's independence. The organizational, financial, logistical attention given to the village in 2004 has not been given throughout the history of Ukraine. Therefore, even those who do not like our political power understand that Viktor Andreevich has been a professional in his work and that is why we congratulate you first, Viktor Andreevich, we wish you success, we wish you to overcome your achievements in 204. Because the village is in a state that only professionals like you can get out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u62	Thank you, Vasily Georgievich. Thank you for your kind words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u63	Grigorovich, questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u64	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. My question, too, is usually more to Alexander Alexandrovich. I have no doubt that the Anti-Crist Coalition will support Viktor Andryovich, he's really a professional. But how much longer does it take for an anti-crisis coalition of vice-premiers, because they're all of the Donetsk's. That's the first question. And the others. Why, though, are we in urgent need of an agrarian vice-premier today? Why do we not eliminate the need that has been needed for more than a month with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Head of the Security Service, or is this not an urgent need?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u65	Well, since it's a question to me, I'm going to answer, Lilia Stepanovna. The thing is, we only made sure a few days ago that Boris Tarasyuk realized he was fired. And so there was no other candidate, and two days ago, I want this candidate to be appointed. So we need the factions to meet, to negotiate, and so on. Oh, no, I know it's already agreed, we talked yesterday about, with faction leaders, they said they would support this candidacy. There's no doubt about it. No, that's how you vote, and that's enough. We'll support it. Baranowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u66	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u67	What a question, and what the answer is. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u68	Dear Victor Andriyovich, I wish you success, like many of my predecessors. In fact, you are remembered and remembered by peasants in the ministry as you worked. And the thing is, you're going to have a good piece of work because in the last two years, a million tons of sugar production has increased and today they can't figure out where his kids are, and the villagers just won't be sowing it this year. The same applies to large-scale milk production. If we don't go to a big, fat farm, in two years we'll be looking for milk in Poland and abroad. The whole world has gone this way today, only we don't understand it yet. So I'd like to wish him success he's experienced and I'm confident that with your efforts, food security in Ukraine will be assured.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u69	Thank you, Alexander! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u70	The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u71	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Victor Andryovich! We're confident that once you're elected, you'll start to provide the village with oil and lubricants and herbicides and pesticides, and you'll restore the system for the purchase of agricultural products. I don't want to ask you any questions, because I'm sure you can handle this position. But I asked Mr. Pecklesenko to ask our colleague a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u72	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u73	Dear Victor Andreevich! I join everything that's said. I'm sure you'll be able to do the most, the best things in the village to keep and multiply. But you know how many problems in the country today. That's why I'm interested in the question of how you feel about farming? And what do you think you should do today under difficult climate conditions? I'm told from places, the village needs not a word of support, but real loans, the village needs real material resources. Please answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u74	Thank you, Alexander Nikolaevich! You've answered for me both the farmer and the agricultural enterprise of any form of property, and you need today the logistical resources you need, the more you know the weather. In the south of the wheat in the pipe phase, it's May, so there's a lot of problems, and we're going to solve them together.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u75	Have a seat, please. Is there anyone who'd like to make a statement? Write down who wants it. From the faction of Chmyr. There's a wish, please. The faction MPs will say yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u76	Deputies! I'm very pleased today that we're looking at this question, really, it's a painful question. Our agriculture really needs such a position as Deputy Prime Minister for Agriculture. We don't have to worry about what we're going to say here, there's this idea that a lot of deputy prime ministers are already, because it's a sector that's very, very much dependent on. And this industry, unfortunately, is in a very bad state right now. Because this sector, unfortunately, is not protected in some way and legislatively, and we know that we have a lot of depressive areas of agriculture. This sector needs the support of the state. Last year the village, which was declared, practically, did nothing in this direction. So I think, and knowing Victor Andryovich, knowing how he worked as a minister of agriculture, I think it's the only person who can, in principle, break the situation in agriculture and we'll still have more order in this field, and it'll be better for both our state and our people. So I ask that the honourable MPs, I think I am confident that we will support this candidacy and that Victor Andriyovich will work for the state, for our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u77	Instead of Borszewski, Tkachenko performs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u78	My dear colleagues, I know Viktor Andriyovich at work together, and I must say that this is the candidate that is needed in the agri-industrial complex today. A man with a wide range of knowledge, thinking and seeing the problems facing Ukraine. But today we're looking at his nominee, not in his good or bad position, but today we're looking at Victor Andryovich's candidacy as a state-run deputy to the Cabinet of Ministers, as a man on whom the mission is extremely important. For 15 years an agro-industrial complex was destroyed, and from a large commodity production, it was a fine commodity hut. And today we ask questions: How do you feel about a farmer, or a lot of manufacturing, the most technological. I think Victor Andryovich answered correctly, but with one correction: the whole civilized world is all, without exception. Whether the great nation or the small one is on the way to great commercial production, which is the most technological, most scientific and most profitable. Because there's no industry in any state, no political system, no bucket of potatoes to plant in the spring, and ten to twelve to dig in the fall, two to plant, and forty to fifty centrifuges to collect. Which branch can give five to ten times as much as you put on carbon dioxide, on a dollar, or on a Euro unit. So, dear fellows, Victor Andryovich needs to wish one thing in his leadership, as deputy prime minister, that he would do anything to prevent the land from becoming a commodity. Ukraine is a farming state. “Russia thrives on Siberia” is Lomonosova, and Ukraine can grow economically only through an agro-industrial complex, and we have no other. So if Victor Andriyovich really does everything to get the false scientists, the false practitioners and the leaders of the anti-governments that led to this, to the collapse of the agro-industrial complex, but the agro-industry complex will put on a great commercial production and on a scientific basis, I'm more confident that Viktor Andriyovich has done the task that he trusts and our faction will sustain him today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u79	Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u80	Dear colleagues! Dear citizens of Ukraine! Our faction will not support the vote, as it has not yet voted for the government, because it is not our government. This is the position of our faction, regardless of how we treat the candidate for this position, even though it raises a natural question, which is perhaps too much of a vice-premier. Of course, there are many problems in the country, but this means that each problem needs to be borne by another official who has additional benefits, and so forth. I would also like, using my time, to draw the attention of the chairman of the plenary session, Alexander Alexandrovitch Moroz, to the requirement of article 51, paragraph 4, of the Rules of the Supreme Council, which provides that if a national MP speaks abusively at the address of another national MP, the chairman of the plenary will warn of the inadmissibility of these statements and give the floor. Dear listeners, radio and television viewers, why the Head of the Supreme Council didn't give me a word, because it was about the election of Judge Makarov of the Court of Juba, who unlawfully sentenced a 15-year-old boy, a young man sat in prison for a year and a half, after which the Supreme Court closed the case.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u81	Turn it off for a minute. Oleg Valeriyovich, I am obliged to stop when you are not speaking on the subject. Please, talk. Please. Everything, did you say? Oh, no. Okay. All of it. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u82	I do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u83	No, you don't. Read the Rules. As a member of the regulatory committee, I'm telling you. Study the Rules. And then you're in charge.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u84	Have a seat, please. Please don't insult Oleg Valeriovich. I'm betting on the vote, and, Matthew, please. Matvienko Anatoly Sergiyovich, please, instead of Widow.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u85	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine” Block. Dear colleagues, I would like to take this opportunity to draw your attention to the very disturbing trends that have levelled the Supreme Council as a higher legislative body to zero. And unfortunately, this is what the government is doing today, or it supports that logic, including with the Head of the Supreme Council. I appeal to you, Victor Fedorovich, as Prime Minister with your wish, respect the Supreme Council. For the appointment is not an anti-crisis coalition, but the Supreme Council as a legislative body. It's not the first time you've shown disrespect. You've put an anti-crisis coalition on your knees, and it serves you, but respect the organ. The conduct and manner you display today show disrespect. Secondly, I would like, Victor Fedorovich, to express my concern to you about the course that the new government is taking, including with the staff assignment. It's for administration, for centralization, for quota, for closure, for transparency, including in personnel decisions. In terms of market competition, this government has no prospect. “Our Ukraine” was not concerned, perhaps for this reason. Because unlike another faction, we're not set up to be as bad in Ukraine as possible. We're in pain for Ukraine. And that's why we don't want it to get as bad as possible. This way of doing government work, we're not going to get any improvement. I'm going to talk about how to select a sample frame assignment. It's a piece of paper that's been filed. Yesterday the committee did not deliberately consider them, at 3:15 the committee had all the documents on Ogrezka, which was formally rejected because, you see, the documents were delayed by 15 minutes. Today we had no documents and we are demonstrating double standards, Alexandre Alexandrovich, in the frame assignment. I'm already addressing you as the Head of the entire Supreme Council, not as the head of the anti-crisis coalition. Don't throw the Supreme Council under anybody's feet. And finally, third. Alexander Alexandrovich, I'm not teaching anyone, but I really have a problem with the authority of the Supreme Council. I'd like you to treat the opposition with the same respect as the anti-crisis coalition, and not show cynicism, even if it's a cynical question. I think it's a problem that we all need to consider, and it's worth putting an end to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u86	Does the Cossack have a desire to express himself? Please, from the faction of the regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u87	Dear colleagues! National Deputy of Ukraine, Kozub, Zaporezka District. Now I think it's inappropriate to suspect at the right time whether a professional is assigned at the wrong time to an area that needs immediate influence. During the holidays, most of us worked in the territory. We've met with the MPs of all levels, and look what we'd like to do in places. They have shown us high confidence that the agrarian sector will be dealt with in a timely manner. Very careful MPs at all levels, authorities have followed the budgetary process, and they know that some serious funds are foreseen to raise the agricultural sector. TODAY, in addition to declarations and in addition to the positions that we have adopted in the State Budget, there is no real financial contribution to the agricultural sector. Now we're talking about timing or timelessness. At the same time and urgently, it is necessary to have a reinforced workforce of professionals in the agricultural sector, and it is necessary to move as quickly as possible to the specific assistance of the village on loan issues, on construction issues, on issues that are envisaged with the development of the agricultural sector itself, and on the whole of our Ukrainian village. So the faction of the Party of the Regions, we know Victor Andriyovich of ours as a high-class professional, who will immediately and quickly assist in matters that need agriculture. Ukraine's agriculture trusts him. We'll support him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u88	Thank you. At the end of the discussion, there were many claims to me, and I think some of them are correct. I was just wrong because I had to ask questions about including him. I have no doubt that it would be a positive decision on this point, but it should be made. I was taken before, so I got a little confused. I'm sorry, and I apologize to Anatoly Sergeiovich, and he really had an argument when he made the claims. I'll make sure it doesn't happen in the future. But what I want to say is that I, personally and other factions of different factions, have insisted on setting up or organizing the work of the Cabinet of Ministers in such a way as to make it mandatory for the vice-premier of the agro-industry complex. Not once have they convinced us that this should be done, and finally, when the proposal came forward and the proposal was accepted, more faithfully when our insistence was taken by the government and such a proposal was made, I think that we should decide here and vote. I know the position of various deputies, the political position, and so on, and here the allegations were made regarding the minister. I can put the minister to the vote right now, but you don't want her to stand up today. So let's understand the reality of things, but I would like to support the candidature really professionally. And that is why I have every reason to order the appointment of Slauta Viktor Andriyovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine for the Agro-Industry Complex. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:05:56]] For 251 Decision taken. We welcome Viktor Andriyovich with this choice. Victor Andryovich! Sergei Mikhailovich! Let him go. Victor Andriyovich, you sit there and you write an application for parliamentary credentials, please. Jaroslav Mikhailovich to the rostrum, please. Attention! Everybody sit down, sit down. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u89	Dear colleagues, I bring to your well-known protocol number two: the meeting of the Counting Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on February 8, 2007. They heard about the secret ballots for the election of the deputy head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Tomenko Mikolio Volodymyrovic's candidate was included in the ballot for the secret ballot on the election of the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On the basis of the results of the secret ballot, the Digital Commission established: the number of Ukrainian national deputies recognized, 450; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who received ballots for secret ballots, 414; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who took part in the vote, 414; the number of ballots declared invalid, nine. Tomenko Mikola Volodymyrovich. The number of votes cast as candidate is 340. The number of votes cast against the candidate is 65. According to part of the first article 88 of the Constitution of Ukraine, chapter seven and articles 70, 74 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Counting Commission decided to consider Tomenko Mikol Volodymirovich, the elected Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, let us applaud Mikola Volodymyrovich, wish him success and invite him to the workplace during plenary sessions. Please. Come on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u91	Protocol No. 2 of the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Counting Commission on February 8, 2007. It was heard that the secret ballots for the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for Human Rights were summarized. In a secret ballot on the appointment of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for human rights, Zechariah Eugen Yuhimovich and Carpathian Nina Ivanovna were included in the ballot. On the basis of the results of the secret vote, the Digital Commission has established the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have been recognized as 450; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who have received secret ballots – 414; the number of Ukrainian national deputies who participated in the vote 414. Number of invalid ballots, four. Zachary Eugeny Yuhimovich. Number of votes cast as candidate 153. Carpathian Nina Ivanovna The number of votes cast as candidate is 255.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u92	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, what then?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u93	No candidate is supported, two. According to article 85, part one, paragraph 17, of the Constitution of Ukraine, article six of the Ukrainian Law “On the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine of Human Rights” and chapter seven of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Supreme Rules, the Counting Commission decided to consider the appointment of the Authorized Supreme Council of Ukraine from the human rights of Karpachov Nina Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u94	We thank Vjacheslav Mikhailovich and the entire Committee of Trustees for their work. We welcome Nina Ivanovna with her election to the office of Commissioner for Human Rights. Let's give it a round of applause. And we welcome both Zechariah and Zechariah with the trust expressed to him by a large part of the deputies. But under the Law of the Authorized of Human Rights, the Authorized One must take an oath at Parliament’s meeting. Nina Ivanovna, I'm asking you to come to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u95	Honorable National MPs. First of all, let me thank all the MPs who have taken an active part in voting for the election of the Human Rights Commissioner. To me, the vote was marked by the vote of representatives of all parliamentary factions. Consolidation in Parliament continues around the issues of human rights and freedoms. I thank everyone who supported me. I want to thank all the public organizations that have supported me and my colleague. And I want to say that I will continue and defend human rights and freedoms as the oath of the Ombudsman of Ukraine requires. Allow me to make an oath in accordance with the law “On the Authorized of Human Rights”. I, Karpachov Nina Ivanovna, have solemnly and conscientiously sworn to uphold the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, to carry out my duties in good faith, to observe the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to exercise justice and to exercise my own conscience. I pledge to act independently, impartially, in the interests of a person and a citizen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u96	Let's welcome her again and she's asking for another word there on one occasion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u97	The reason is extremely serious, for the independent status of the Ombudsman requires me to have one representative mandate in the exercise of my authority. And so, honourable fellow MPs, before I read you a second statement, I want to thank everyone who worked with me directly in the lawmaking business. A statement. The Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please suspend my mandate as Ukrainian national deputy elected by the state-wide multi-election constituency for the election list of the Party of the Regions in connection with my election to the post of Human Rights Commissioner of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support and vote. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u98	I'm putting to the vote a statement, more loyally, a waiver order, an early waiver, a suspension, pardon, not a waiver, but the termination of the authority of the national deputy of Carpathian Nina Ivanovna. I'll bet you a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u99	Vote. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u100	And you can vote against it, so what are you? [[17:15:32]] For 365 Decision taken. Part of the deputies didn't want you to leave. Well, it's not a big deal. Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u101	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our meetings. A draft Social Dialogue Act is under consideration in Ukraine. [[Registration number 2748]] A representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, Zvaric Roman Mihajlovich, reports, because it is a bill of the head of state. Is there a Roman Mikhailovich? There's Roman Mikhailovich. Get Harry ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The draft law before you sets out the legal principles in the organization and order of social dialogue in Ukraine. Social dialogue as an effective reconciliation mechanism at different levels between trade unions, employers' organisations, executive authorities or local self-government bodies, is used in many countries, including the countries of the European Union. Social dialogue is aimed at taking into account the interests of workers and employers through mutual consultation, negotiation of agreements and joint decisions. Taking into account the importance of social dialogue, the President of Ukraine, by his decree of 29 December 2005, established the National Tripartite Socio-Economic Council with the President of Ukraine as an advisory body. The main tasks of the Council are to promote the reconciliation of the positions of the sides of the social dialogue on the way forward in socio-economic and labour relations, to develop and submit proposals to the President of Ukraine on the same issues. The draft law defines the concept of social dialogue, its basic principles, the scope of social dialogue, the representation of social dialogue. There is a provision for the creation and operation of social dialogue bodies at both national and sectoral levels. The draft law also defines the representation of the parties of the executive authorities of the employed workers and employers. There's going to be a social dialogue on the principles set out in the draft law, and I'm not going to count them because I know that the Ukrainian people's deputies read this law very carefully, based on the level of interest that they are now demonstrating. And they can be initiated by any part of the social dialogue. The implementation of the Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine will, firstly, contribute to the activation and more effective solution of the interaction between the parties to the social dialogue, the formation of new business associations, employers, trade unions and so forth. The draft law was considered at the Cabinet of Ministers meeting on behalf of the Ministry of Social Policy and Labour. To the extent that the Presidential Secretariat has the information on this matter, it has been decided to recommend that the Supreme Council approve it. The same applies to how much information we own, the decision of the Parliament's committees. Given the above, Adam Ivanovich, and also based on the findings of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, which also proposes to approve this draft law in the first reading, is proposed to approve this draft law as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u103	Thank you. Roman Mikhailovich, I'm sorry you're not allowed to talk, because obviously the events in Parliament are very exciting, and we've solved so many of the personnel issues, and we still have the staff. That's why I mean that. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes of Vyziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u104	Mr. Roman, I wanted to know if there was any consultation with employers and tradesmen in the drafting of this law?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u105	Such consultations are being held continuously because, as I have already said, the President of Ukraine, as an advisory body, based on the competence of the President of Ukraine, has created an appropriate tripartite council, which is made up of representatives of trade unions, employers and representatives of the respective branches of government. Thus, of course, such consultations were conducted and the project was fully agreed upon at this level.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u106	Jakomenka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u107	I'd like to give Stoyan a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u108	Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u109	Your Honor, even without the irony that you said, I read the Law very carefully and listened very carefully to your speech, because for many years I have been involved in the social partnership and, in principle, I support the submission by the President of this Act. But I want to ask you first. Please tell me what has prevented the work of this tripartite, national social, or economic council with the President from being properly organized over the past few years. Why would the President do that, I'd say I don't care about this body, and in almost two years, I've never met this body. Was it disrespectful to him, or was there a special law to be passed? And the second. Please tell me where this body of social dialogue will work: with the president, with the government, whether it will be independent, this body is very principled because it depends on its further work. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u110	First. Let me just say a little bit. If you saw some irony in what I said, you're wrong. I have been corrected once, and I usually respect the Chamber of Deputies, and I have no doubt in my mind that every MP has read this document carefully. As for the work of the National Council itself, I would like to point out once again that it was created as an advisory body based on the constitutional powers of the President of Ukraine. And the recommendations made by this council to the President of Ukraine were of a purely recommendational nature, based on the very status of this body. The President of Ukraine respected these recommendations, and in an effort to strengthen this status is now proposed to regulate the body’s activities legislatively. This body will act in harmony with the article, if I am not mistaken, 7.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u111	Yes. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u112	Part 2 of this law, if I am not mistaken, determines that as it forms, if you have noticed, there is a uniform composition composed of representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, of the U.S. trade unions and of the U.S. employers’ organizations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u113	Bubbles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u114	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I still have a sequel to the last question. In the West, in countries where we want to be equal, there is a social dialogue and there are no laws. And I think we should also pay more attention to the experience of Western countries, and I don't think we need a single law that also needs funding costs from the state budget, because I don't have a convincing explanatory note on the fifth article, on financial and economic justification, where it's said that spending from the state budget is not needed, but at the same time we're creating a new bureaucratic system that can finally work on public principles, and again, in Western countries, that's how it works.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u115	Ladies and gentlemen, this council is now funded by the state budget funds within the budget allocations allocated to the activities of the President of Ukraine. Therefore, it is now proposed that by establishing such a separate body, of course, this will require a separate decision when the relevant draft State Budget Act is being considered for the coming years, how to finance this body, or a single line, or, again, within the budgetary allocations provided by the President of Ukraine. I tend to think that they should still stand out in a single line.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u116	Yes, thank you, Roman Mikhailovich. Please sit down. From the profile committee, Hara Vasil Georgievovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u117	Honourable colleagues, in accordance with the President's decree, were already in December 2005, an interdepartmental working group composed of representatives of central authorities, all Ukrainian trade unions and employers'associations, with the support of an ILO technical cooperation project called “Ukraine”. Support, implementation of fundamental principles and rights in the field of labour.” This bill on the foundations of social dialogue in Ukraine has been drafted. The Co-Chairs of the National Tripartite Socio-Economic Council requested the President of Ukraine as a subject of the legislative initiative to submit a bill to the Supreme Council. The draft has been prepared by this inter-ministerial group and has been well received. But I will tell you right away, those who are outraged by the text that you have on your hands, after finalizing it in the President's Secretariat, have unfortunately become a completely different document. At the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, this refinement in the President's Secretariat was described as a base, a storm of emotion and a desire to reject the bill. But after discussion, given that the Secretariat's woeful workers have actually submitted their illiteracy to the President, that this law is very much needed by our country, that we have obligations to the International Labour Organization and the European Union in connection with the ratification of the European Social Charter, the Committee has unanimously decided to support the bill in its first reading and intends to work seriously on it for the second reading. The bill is not hopeless. It was supported by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Economics. The Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council gave a positive response, although with comments. There is a desire to make the law worthy of the Cabinet of Ministers, of the Trade Union, we have discussed these issues with them, in the association of employers. The Social Dialogue Act, I am sure, will regulate the order of the peace, negotiation, collective agreements and agreements in our country, both tariff and regional agreements. The law will contribute to the preservation of social tranquillity and the decision at the round table on social protection for workers. Once again, the Committee voted unanimously in favour of the draft and has almost already begun to improve it for second reading. Therefore, a great request to the Supreme Council to support the decision of the Committee and to adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u118	Thank you, Vasil Georgievich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Well, why don't we support the president and the committee? Is he insisting? Let's give it a minute. Please. All right, then, Stoyan. Please, Michael Volintz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u119	Dear colleagues! The countries of the democratic world, primarily European countries, have moved quickly and quickly because they have taken on the principles of social dialogue. And in Ukraine, we've been trying to develop a social dialogue over the last 10 years, but we haven't moved beyond theoretical knowledge. And so a lot of the issues that are not solved at this level today have been deadlocked, and they have been expressed through strikes, because of various protests and so forth. Hence, there is a great need for us to adopt such a law today. But in fact, the law came out a little weak, and I'll explain why. The legislation on social dialogue foresees and consists of the Constitution of Ukraine, the Labour Code, the Collective Agreements Laws of Ukraine, the Order of Collective Labour Conflicts, the Professional Associations, but when we look closely at what actual labour legislation and where we're going today, we see that it's getting worse all the time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u120	Thank you. We made a deal in a minute. Please, Stoyan. Thank you for your support. Stoyan, one minute. He's been followed by Mother of Our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u121	Alexander Stoyan, Party of Regions. Dear colleagues, since 1992 the Council of Social Partnerships has been operating in Ukraine, but there has been virtually no results. Why? Because she was a consultative person — their decisions. And I'm looking at this law that's just empty today, but unfortunately, it has to be adopted. Why is it empty? Because article 11 reads again “the council of the social partners will be making recommendations. ” They'll talk, they'll recommend, that'll be the end of it. We need to change this article and write down the responsibility of the decision. Second position. The law does not specify where this council, the source of funding, will be located. It's an organization of work. And the third moment is the most fundamental, so I can say it. This council should not be with the President or the government. It's a self-governing body. What's going on with the President? There was Grishenko, leading the employer in the negotiations. He didn't like the president's position; he released him by decree from negotiations by the government, by employers. Therefore, it must be a self - control body and a decision should be required for the execution of the public authority.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u122	Thank you. Mother. Mother Vitaly, please, from "Our Ukraine" and we'll be clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u123	Mother, our Ukraine faction, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs. I'd like to uphold the law. I support it not simply, but because two terms worked on the Social Partnership Council and at least here I heard from the trade unions that there was little meaning from this council, but I'd like to say that a very big job was done by Osadchi, his deputy when. Axis, I'm sorry. Worked by industrialists. I was co-chaired by industrialists and entrepreneurs and ministers of work. I want to say that it mattered a lot. Today, business associations, industry associations are developing, and today this is becoming a very important institution in the country that will help resolve many of the issues that need help not only the President but also the government. So I would like to say that in spite of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u124	Thank you, Vitalia. You're the one who said he was supportive. Well, I said the main thing, that's clear. Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, all who took part in the discussion are proposing to support the bill in the first reading. I'm voting on the adoption of the Social Dialogue Act in Ukraine. Registration number 2748. Please vote. [[17:34:09]] For 404 The Law was adopted in the first reading. Yes, Your Honor, we have yet to perform one more mission: to take the oath of a new Deputy Prime Minister. In connection with the new Cabinet of Ministers Act, which took effect, members of the Cabinet of Ministers take an oath before taking office. Please, Victor Andriovich Slauta.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u125	Recognizing the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers, I solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, I commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, ensuring the well - being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u126	Thank you. Let's welcome already legitimate Vice Prime Minister Viktor Andriyovich, and wish him and the country a success.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u127	Dear colleagues, distinguished national deputies, thank you for your confidence. I'll do whatever it takes to keep you from being betrayed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u128	Thank you. Yes, dear colleagues, we are considering the draft Law on the General Programme “National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child” of 2016, registration number 2560. Maybe we'll take it on the first reading, this program? Is there no objection? Is there no objection? I am voting on the adoption of the National Plan of Action for the Implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child by 2016, registration number 2570. Please vote. [[17:36:25]] For 390 The law in first reading is acceptable. I'd like the profile committee to prepare him for second reading. We need to make a decision on the issues under discussion, this is a series of parliamentary hearings. I'd like the reporters to be informed within two minutes, and we'll vote. Please, Head of the Human Rights Committee, National Minorities and National Relations Committee, Helen Fedorovna Bondarenko. Draft Decision on Parliamentary Hearing Recommendations on “Contemporary status and current tasks in the area of prevention of gender-based violence”, 2740. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u129	Olena Bondarenko, Faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your attention is on the proposal for a draft resolution on parliamentary hearing recommendations on “Contemporary status and current tasks in the area of prevention of gender-based violence”. I want to remind you that on November 21st, parliamentary hearings took place on this very subject. This was preceded by a very large work involving the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to launch a pan-European campaign against domestic violence and, in particular, domestic violence against women. According to the recommendations of the country's Parliamentary Assembly, members of the Council of Europe are called upon to cooperate and are called upon to join this pan-European campaign. From the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I have been appointed coordinator of the pan-European campaign and parliamentary dimension in Ukraine. According to the parliamentary hearings, a whole series of recommendations were adopted that were offered to your mind, and you all had the opportunity to get to know them. I ask you to support the ruling of the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding these recommendations. Since we have long since announced from the mouth of our Head of the Supreme Council all over Europe that Ukraine is joining this pan - European campaign. After all, our reputation, our authority in the Council of Europe, depends on how effective and timely we can make decisions, our decision, our reputation, and our authority in the Council of Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u130	Thank you, Olena Fedorovna. Shall we vote? I am voting on a draft regulation on recommendations, more faithfully, a decision on parliamentary hearing recommendations on the subject “Contemporary status and current tasks in the area of prevention of gender-based violence”, registration number 2740. Please vote. [[17:39:10]] For 201 Dear colleagues, come on. Well, by factions, you can see factions. I'd like to send you to the committee for work. Please vote on this proposal. For processing. Vote. [[17:39:38]] For 383 Copy that. I'm asking the factions who have warnings to contact the committee, what's the problem, that we should consider these issues a week from now. Draft resolution on parliamentary hearing recommendations on “Equal rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine: realities and prospects”, registration number 2741. Committee head Leonid Ivanovich Graz, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u131	Absolutely brief. I know what's going on. And what happens is that we want to show ourselves again in the international arena in the best light, just in coffee. Therefore, I ask, well, there was no time for the Government and there was no desire to attend parliamentary hearings or to attend draft decisions in due course. You don't have to embarrass yourself, you have to make a second project, you have to make a decision for rereading. But I'm pretty sure we'll be there in a few weeks. That's what I'm telling the Minister and the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u132	Yes. Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich. Yeah, but let's try it first. I am voting on the decision to recommend parliamentary hearings on the subject: “Equal rights and equal opportunities in Ukraine. Realities and Perspectives”, registration number 2741. Please support the women. Vote. [[17:41:14]] For 176 That's the same offer for pre-processing. Please be supportive. Processing. Vote. [[17:41:34]] For 380 Decision taken. A draft Decision on the Health and Recreation of Children in the summer of 2006 is under consideration and the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine is being considered on the organization and rehabilitation of children in the summer of 2007, registration number 3045. Please, Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko in two positions. But first, as head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u133	Dear colleagues, our committee has taken the utmost account of the suggestions and observations that we have discussed on the appropriate Government Day. You have the text of the document. We've been working on this document the same way with our government's department of profile. It's about the moments that relate primarily to the next healing season. Those violations and those warnings that have been made since the audit by the Auditorium have resulted in the operation of health facilities, resulting in the completion of the procedures and tenders for the purchase of travel and everything else contained in this document. The only moment we've missed with the Ministry, and I'd like to put it here by voice on the Ministry's proposal, is that paragraph 3 in paragraph 10 of the first paragraph of the third paragraph, add the words "at the Children's Centre "at Youth Guardia." And in a new edition or more precisely with these additions, this will be: “Ensure the organization of a year-long recovery of children, including at Youth Guardia Children’s Centre, treatment, rehabilitation of children with disabilities, and beyond. And the committee and the ministry agreed with that. And I'd like to support that. On the other hand, in order not to take the second word, I would like to thank all colleagues of all factions for their trust and support in my election as Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I am absolutely convinced and I believe that in this session room we will increasingly adopt decisions as the only parliament, not just to fight for decisions in the interests of the majority or the opposition. I think that such decisions by the Ukrainian Parliament for the benefit of the entire nation are expected from us and society, and we are interested in such decisions ourselves. Thank you for your confidence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, shall we vote? The decision on the conclusion of the child health and rest organization in the summer of 2006 and the measures taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to organize rest and rehabilitate children in the summer of 2007. Registration number 3045. Please vote. [[17:44:42]] For – 404 Decision taken. Thank you. Section “under the abbreviated procedure”. Draft Decision on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association “The State Savings Bank of Ukraine” and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine “Ukreximbank”. Registration number 3089. Report by Klavov Sergey Petrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u135	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Deputies! The Act amending article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act of 22 December 2006 introduces a new order for appointment of members of the State Bank Monitoring Boards. The Nacsovjets are composed of 5 persons from the Supreme Council, the Cabinet of Ministers and the President of Ukraine. At the meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking, a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine appointing members of the Monitoring Boards of the Open Shareholder Society “State Saving Bank” of Ukraine and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine “Ukraximbank” was considered. Registration number 3089, author of the Kruglov MP. All candidatures comply with the requirements of existing legislation. The Committee decided to submit and recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that it support the proposed drafting of the regulation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u136	Yes, thank you, have a seat, please. Do you want to talk about it? From Our Ukraine, Arjewitin, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u137	Stanislav Arjewitin, "Our Ukraine." Our faction will not support this decree and insists that it be removed as one that does not conform to current legislation. And here's the argument. This decree does not correspond to article 7 of the Banking and Banking Act in part with the members of the Supervisory Board’s business and integrity of reputation. It is known that one of the candidates at the initiative of the National Bank in his time was ousted from office as head of government. Article 7 of the law, part of the establishment of conflicts and interests in previous information, knows that several candidates are now in managerial positions in banking institutions. Article 7 of the same law in part on the availability of certain members, candidates for appropriate education and the corresponding experience would like to emphasize to the authors, and the new law contains education and appropriate work experience. This is recorded in the law that has been published. I'm gonna say it again. Next, I wanted to, it was said that the committee was considering the question of conformity. I would like to point out that the committee has only decided to send questions as to whether candidates meet the requirements of legislation. To whom requests have been sent is the function of our committee to determine this and then to make a determination. Next. I would like to remind you that the committee did not support the proposal for a transparent procedure for dealing with this issue. I mean, just like we suggested that we discuss candelabras in the MP factions, make proposals from the MPs, consider and draw conclusions from our committee and continue to present candidates, listen to speeches and ask questions. Sadly, the offer was rejected. I would like to remind the authors of the same way that the governing bodies of the Bank “Ukraine” were appointed underground. I would very much like you to look at the lists of previous members of the Supervisory Board: there are no assistants, no consultants.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u138	Dear colleagues, calm down. It's all about voting. The main thing is that we heard that the committee was looking at it and the committee made a decision. And what kind of decision does the Supreme Council make in any situation, and I explain the rules of the Rules. We have an important decision to make to the committee because it is easier to support it. But in any decision of the committee, the Supreme Council is the final point. I am voting on the Ordinance on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Boards of the Open Shareholders Association “The State Savings Bank of Ukraine” and the State Export and Import Bank of Ukraine “Ukreximbank”. Registration number 3089. Please vote. [[17:50:03]] For -351. I've made my decision. Dear colleagues, I'm continuing the session for 15 minutes and please support me in the next one, please be careful. Now we're going to go to the section "with a reduced procedure" if we make a decision. I would like to vote for the following issues to be considered in the summary procedure. Vote. [[17:50:45.]] For – 311 Thank you. And I ask you to keep this order of work so that we will consider the draft Law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the General Structure and Numbering of the Security Service, then the draft Act amending article 77 of the Basic Law on Health Protection of Ukraine and then the Ordinance on the Marking of 75 Years From Botick's Birth. Please encourage us to consider drafts in this order. Please vote. Vote. [[17:51:36]] For – 322 Thank you, 322. There is a draft Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Security Service. [[Registration number 2696]] Reported the deputy head of the Security Service, Petty Officer Valery Fedorovich. Please. To prepare for the Scybinetsky and give the King a word in conversation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u139	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! For your consideration, it is proposed to amend article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and number of the Ukrainian Security Service. The purpose of its adoption is to reduce the number of Security Services in connection with the creation of the State Service for Special Liaison and Protection of Information, based on the relevant Department of Security. In addition, the total number of services was approved only in 2006 and consisted of 41,750 employees. Since January 1, there has been a decrease of 8,250 employees, and the number of service is now 33,500, of whom 2,700 are military personnel. The adoption of the law does not require additional costs. The bill was duly agreed upon and considered by the Supreme Council Committee on Security and Defence. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u140	Yes, thank you. Please sit down. Yes, is there a Scybinetsky? Please have the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u141	Honourable National Deputies, the Defence and State Security Committee at its meeting on December 20, discussed this issue, supports and invites the Supreme Council to accept it as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u142	Thank you, sit down. Dear colleagues, well, I promised to give my word to the King if he wanted to. Victor Mikolaiovich, no wish? No, it's not. Okay. Then you say it. Dear colleagues, you've come to understand the point. Since we have created another government body — the State Service for Special Liaison, which was formerly part of the service, it is clear that the number is declining. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the overall structure and size of the Ukrainian Security Service. Registration number 2696. In general, the law is voted on. [[17:54:23]] For - 341 Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Law amending article 77 of Ukraine’s health legislation is under consideration. Registration number 2559. Reported to the head of the Committee on Health Care, Baychev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u143	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Medical, pharmaceutical and pensioners, including those living in rural and urban areas, are among the most socially vulnerable. That is why Ukrainian legislation on health, where health and pharmaceutical workers and pensioners from rural areas provided for the right to free use of an apartment with heating and lighting. In practice, however, in some regions, health and pharmaceutical workers living in urban settlements refuse to grant these benefits, motivated by the fact that this benefit applies only to health and pharmaceutical workers who live only in villages, villages and only in apartments and not in homes. Most health and pharmaceutical workers in rural areas and urban settlements live in private homes. In order to regulate this issue, it is proposed to amend article 77, paragraph (g), of the Basic Law of Ukraine on Health by replacing the word “use of accommodation” with “use of housing” and the words “in villages” and “in settlements” with the words “in rural areas” and “in urban settlements”. The Ministry of Finance does not object to the adoption of the bill, noting that all housing and utility benefits for health and pharmaceutical workers have already been provided for 2007. The adoption of the bill will help attract qualified health professionals to the country and create an enabling environment for their very difficult work. Please adopt the bill as a basis and generally as a law. I'm asking you to support all the people's deputies. And thank you to the great national deputy Oleg Lazko, who is in charge of control or indeed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u144	He needs to be counted in a hospital as one of the chief physicians. Have a seat, please. They want to talk. Who is "for" who is "against" please register. Please, Bulba Stepan. Son of a bitch. I'm sorry, I can't see Bulby. Son of a bitch, please, Stepan. Who? It's a flattering word. Yeah, then Bubba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u145	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. I want to draw special attention to this bill. The bill appeared four times in the order of the Supreme Council of the day, and four times in Parliament did not reach it. Although this is an extremely important bill, it is about the interests and without exaggeration of hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens — health workers in rural areas and members of their families — who are now deprived of the right to use housing and electricity benefits. Today, when we vote with you, and I hope that the whole Parliament will vote on these changes as a whole as a law, these people will have their legal rights, which they have used recently, before last year. I thank Aunty Dmitrovny Bachatevi that she has persisted in breaking this law with us, and we will be grateful to Parliament for supporting this law, because once again, I stress that it is the interests of health workers in rural areas. Yulia’s block of Tymoshenko is supporting these people and giving them their legal rights back. And I thank Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk for e's insistence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u146	Not by subject. Not by subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u147	Persevering petitions brought this law to the fore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u148	Yes, please, Stepan Bulba. It's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u149	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. Of course, socialists support this bill because the situation in the village, especially with regard to health care there, is certainly true, and the level of assistance from the State to the health workers working in the village needs special attention today. And when we talk about the need to improve the quality of medical services, of course we need to think about the conditions under which health workers work. For me, of course, it is not surprising, for example, that this law has not yet been passed. But thanks to the Antichrist Coalition, the committee responsible for considering this law prepared it. Again and again, the Socialists will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u150	Thank you. The discussion is over. I'll put it to a vote. Wait. I am betting on the adoption vote on the basis of the Amendment Act to Article 77 of the Basic Law on Health. Registration number 2559. [[18:01:36]] For – 408. There is, I see, an opportunity to put it in general as a law. Is there no objection? Then I put to the vote a proposal: The adoption of the Law as a whole amending article 77 of the Basic Law on Health Care. Please vote. [[18:02:11]] For - 408 Thank you. The law is passed. And, dear fellows, listen to me. We have discussed with you today in the first reading the draft of the Law on the Approval of a State-wide Programme against TB in 2007-2011. There were 432 votes. A little report from the commission made it difficult for us to accept it as a law. Is there any objection? Sergei Vasilovich, please, Shevchuk. Sergei Volodymyrovich, please. Shevchuk's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u151	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Of course, this is a very interesting situation: As soon as Valérie Poor, the new deputy minister of health appeared in the hall, the branch became a little richer. And if it gets richer, and it can be even richer if we generally adopt this important law regarding the fight against tuberculosis. There are many ways to improve it after adoption.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u152	So you have no objection. To support. I'll then vote for the adoption of the whole law on the approval of the General Programme against TB in 2007-2011, registration number 2501. Please vote. On his first reading, he received 432 votes. Vote. [[18:03:57]] For - 398. The law is passed. Thank you. We did everything they asked us to do on medical matters, even more. The draft decree on the 75th anniversary of the famous estradian singer Yuri Bagatikov, registration number 3044, is under consideration. Let's hear from Leonid Grac. Or from the committee right away? Please, Vladimir Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee, I would like to express briefly my position and the position of our committee. In vocal Ukrainian art, there are a few unique cases where vocational and technical schools went out and then became stars of enormous magnitude of singers -- this is Eugenia Miroshnichenko, I could call someone else. In this issue, of course, so did Yuri Bogatikov. I'm not going to say it's a world-class voice, but it was a man who at the time carried in himself, in his image some spirit of freedom, working such a guy in a good mood, with a good feeling. That's the first one. The other one. What motivates us to celebrate this man’s Jubilee is that many invitations. You know, Russia was constantly sucking our best talent out of Ukraine, and they were going there, and they were getting laurels. This man was indeed faithful to the land of Ukraine, loyal to Crimea. He worked both in Lugansk and Donetsk and in Kharkishte. Because I think it's very normal to celebrate his Jubilee. There's nothing special about the decision. This is a very modest Jubilee. Putting there a couple of memorial boards where he was, holding a little contest there means from his songs, and radio and television to mark him. Very normal. We support, the committee voted for it. Let's vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u154	Thank you. Only I'd like to add there, we've missed the Herson area, because he worked at the Herson Philharmonic. So, with your permission, we're adding to the list, which means recommending to the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Donetsk, Lugansk, Kharkiv and Herson Regional Administrations, where he worked during his creative life. I'm voting on the decision to mark the 75th anniversary of the birth of the great ostridian singer Yuri Bogatikow. Registration number 3044. Please vote. [[18:06:51]] For – 353 Thank you, copy. And, dear colleagues, we have, with your permission, as much as 15 minutes more time is available, if we were to consider a bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. This is 2355, referring to the first deputy and deputy head of the district council. There are some nuances in place, and the committee is asking us to settle this issue. Please, Kuzmenko Sergey Leonidovich will report from the committee, the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u155	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, we have a great deal on the Committee of Appeal. Only from district councils do I have 12 phone calls. Statistics show that in almost half of the districts, in a large number of districts, prosecutors have filed lawsuits against the council’s decision to be more than one deputy. At the same time, the political course chosen by the country is just increasing the role of councils, increasing their authority and increasing their workload. And today, as a substitute for the council, she's no longer an appendage of the government, she's an entirely self-active body. This implies that it is necessary to allow the councils not to limit themselves to one substitute. That's exactly what the bill I'm about to report to you is about. The findings of the Science and Technology Administration say that the law can be adopted in the first reading. The scientific expertise proposals that can be taken into account for second reading are that either the quota should be set or the population should be set, well, most likely from the population, depending on the number of substitutes that can be approved. But in any case, the law is absolutely necessary, because today the council's work is much more complicated because there are no substitutes for organizing the entire council's work complex. The committee unanimously decided to ask the Supreme Council to adopt the law and the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-08-m1.u156	Thank you. I think, Sergey Leonidovich, we don't have to define anything anymore, because when we passed the council election law, we set up a number of councils there. And not from the size of the area, but from the number of councils you can set. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion? None. The point is that to date, we're adding a new concept, the first substitute, because there was just a substitute, and we're introducing the first substitute. First deputy and deputy. So let's say there are two or no more than two. The first reading proposes a committee, because there is a note by our professional management, so let us support this proposal, the first reading sets out the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. Number 2355. Please vote on the basis. [[18:10:32]] For -347. Thank you. There's something else we could do, but I think that's enough for today. Dear colleagues! I thank you for your work. I'm sorry for the fight, but we've been through this successfully. At this evening’s meeting, I declare it closed. I'll start work tomorrow at 10:00.
