ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, guests of the Supreme Council, distinguished TV and radio audiences, respected journalists! I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Registration is carried out for those wishing to participate in the meeting. [[09:59:48]] They're in the session room of 259, those who want to. The morning session is open. In accordance with Parliament's decision, on the late Sunday, we, working in a specific regime, hold morning meetings and continue to work on committees and factions as well. Before the session begins, I would like to welcome, on your behalf, the national deputies Hanna Hermann and Sergio Maybeard, who are now fulfilling their birthday. [[Applause]] Alexander Mikolaiovich, you seem to be agreeing to listen. No, it wasn't Hellfire, so. So I'm telling his folks it wasn't him. Okay. In accordance with the Rules, we have time for representatives from factions to make proposals, announcements, statements, messages and speeches by national MPs. Please write down who would like to speak. And someone else wants to be a member of the MPs, though. Continue recording. Yes, Samuel Catherine Semenovna of the Communist faction has a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u2	Samoylik Ekaterina Semenovna, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I would most like to draw your attention to me right now. Respectable fellow countrymen, respected people who have come out and are in the square before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, on the Maidan of Independence, before the Constitutional Court, in the squares of our cities and settlements! Our distinguished compatriots, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine considers it a duty to inform you that the constant calls of the President of Ukraine, Viktor Yushchenko, and his nationalistic environment, to pass the Anapheme to the era of Soviet occupation, to defile the sanctuaries of our people and to declare the heroes of Ukraine of the Nazi accomplices a response where they are placed, among the frank fascists. We are indeed with you today in the face of the threat of fascism in our country. On 20 April, on Hitler's birthday, some organizations submitted an application to the Kiev City Administration for an action on 28 April on the worship of heads of the SS-Galicina Division. The Fascists are going to go through the central streets of our capital, Kiev, and to hold their own assembly in its main square, a street that they did not keep after the bombings after the Great Homeland War, but our entire Soviet people. In doing so, they challenged all the people of Ukraine, all of democratic Europe, all of progressive humanity before the celebration of the great victory, Hitler's misdeeds, the servants want to abuse the bright memory of millions of Soviet people of different nationalities, who have given their lives to make such sacrilegious marches impossible. These villains believe that their time has returned with the arrival of the orange President and with the support of the Yulia Timoshenko, Lucenka and Our Ukraine. You're wasting your time. I'm talking to everyone who's listening to us today. Take your old albums, take a look at old photos of your very young relatives who have gone to protect our homeland. They have cleansed not only the territory of the Soviet Union, not only the territory of Ukraine, but the territory of Europe as a whole, and we are obliged from generation to generation to pass on this bright memory of those who have done everything to us for a peaceful future. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine calls for everything to be done to prevent our beautiful Ukraine from becoming a haven of refuge for the Essesians, Ukrainian nationalists and their Estonian shareholders from being able to reverse the arrows of historic times and memories living in the heart of each of us. Their time is up, Fascism must not pass in either brown or orange camouflage. Therefore, we call upon all the Ukrainian people's deputies, who have a burning flame of love for their homeland, to return to their historical memory, and to do everything we can to ensure that in Ukraine we never repeat the terrible time that our Ukrainian people have experienced, so that we no longer have Babin Yar, so that we do not have any more wishes and Belarusians. Therefore, we all need to stand firm for our land. On the basis of the decisions of the Nuremberg Process, the Communist Party of Ukraine requires the Kiev State Administration to take all necessary measures to prevent the marching of SSES in the streets of the famous hero city of Kiev. And we call on the first of May, as a sign of our solidarity, to enter our square.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u3	Thank you. Mutz is speaking instead of Kiselev. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u4	Dear Head, honourable deputies, dear countrymen! Today, the whole country: thousands of people on the streets and squares, the government of Ukraine, the Supreme Council, political parties, the regional elite -- live the expectation of a single decision -- the decision of the Constitutional Court. The political crisis that unfolded in Ukraine following the President's decree on parliamentary dissolution should end so that it will not be ashamed of purposelessly lost time, missed opportunities and the lack of positive lessons. The faction of the Party of the Regions insists that the Constitutional Court’s decision should be the legal basis for resolving the conflict in Ukraine. We will never stand in the way of legal development if we seek political relevance and replace it with a legal and normative basis. Convinced: The temptation of high - ranking people to break the Constitution to achieve their political goals requires putting an end to their skin interests. The faction of the Party of the Regions expresses concern about the campaign of discrediting the Constitutional Court, the charges of bribery, the pressure, the blackmailes show that in Ukraine it is very difficult, but a process of democratic evolution is under way. He's overwhelmed by information wars, compromises, slanders, but that's the way to go. The pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court is increasing in order to prevent legal legal decisions from being made, and the opposition forces are trying to implement the break-up scenario of the Constitutional Court. The faction of the Party of the Regions emphasizes the inadmissibility of such actions, with regard to all representatives of the judicial branch, and in particular with regard to the judges of the Constitutional Court. Because it is not only about maintaining the legitimacy of one hundred inner peace in the state but also about Ukraine’s international authority. Ladys with hair and its surroundings were able to work in executive power, but they failed to carry out their duties effectively and were released for incompetence. Today, they are devoured by the thirst for rematch and are thus sacrificed to the interests of Ukraine and the people they swear to. But we know that Ukraine was most affected by those who screamed most about its interests. BUT’s leader stated that the opposition would not accept the Constitutional Court’s decision. Thus, opposition calls for anarchy and destabilisation of the foundations of the Ukrainian legal system. Such statements are tantamount to the very existence of the Constitutional Court as the only one in the State of the institution to which it is charged to assess the functioning of all branches of authority and the conformity of the Constitution. It is very surprising why the President of Ukraine has so far refused and has not published his position on such statements by opposition leaders. We call on the President of Ukraine to evaluate such a legal culture of opposition and to act as a guarantor of the Constitution and to call on the opposition not to engage in legal hysteria that may have fatal consequences for Ukrainian society. Mr. President, isn't it possible to build a European country in such a way that the European community and the world can no longer expect us to do that? We quote the PARE resolution: “If a decision is taken by the Constitutional Court, it is recognized as compulsory for all parties.” We see Europe. The European path of development, European values and Ukrainian opposition are things that are not compatible. Only the decision of the Constitutional Court can determine the further course of political events and the negotiation process. This is what the representatives of European and world institutions believe to be the solution to this political conflict in the constitutional and legal fields is a test for young democracy in Ukraine. That's why, unlike the opposition, we will execute any decision of the Constitutional Court, because only the Constitutional Court can and should resolve the political conflict in the middle of the country in a legal and legitimate way, after which we need to find political compromise to solve Ukraine's internal problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u5	Thank you. Leshchenko has the word from “Our Ukraine”. Behind him is Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! Victor Lechchenko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine, city of Kharkiv The political crisis today has clearly defined contours and subjects that pose the greatest threat to democracy and stability in Ukraine. Without a doubt, our society is not ready to use active means of opposition, the destructive national attack of radicalism. We need to be objective in determining that radicalism has evolved gradually and has become a reality because of our silent inadequacy. Let's take that fact. During the election campaign in 2006, in all areas of Ukraine, the boards convinced the population that the electorate was directly electing the prime minister. Under the symbol. The heart is looking at what appears to be an aggressive herd of the white shark; but we have not noticed that the actions of this beautiful woman are followed by a huge lie associated with the voter's deception, because the people voted for a power, and the winners form a coalition that then determines the Prime Minister's candidacy. The signing of an agreement on a united opposition between “Our Ukraine” and BUT, in which the main task was to hold parliamentary and local elections for the term, the Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine indignantly accepted such destructive intentions of radicals. And it's not like that at all, not for the reasons they're talking about and now they're called. Or let us consider the fact that cynicism and authoritarianism convince us of the need for early elections as a tool for the political recovery of democratic society in Europe. In doing so, note how the facts are being adjusted. They are called countries where early elections have been held, but they are not called reasons. At his press conference, the president clearly named the reason that 95 percent of the early elections were the result of either the activity or the initiative of the ruling majority. Nowhere in the world has the early elections been the direct result of the opposition. Look at what it was like in the Federal Republic of Germany. In 1969 a coalition of Christian and free democracies broke up. The latter are associated with Billy Grant's Social Democrats. Then, in order to consolidate its position, the coalition declares a presidential election. In 1982 the same free Democrats formed a coalition with Christian Democrats led by Helmut Kol. Once again, it's a time-consuming election under the same conditions. Early elections in 2005 resulted from the failure of the Schroeder-led Social Democratic Party in the land election. In order to test its position in society, the ruling coalition initiates the vote of mistrust of the government and goes to the early elections. In other countries that are referred to by the leaders of the united opposition, early elections are held either on the initiative of the governing coalition or because of the impossibility of forming it. At the same time, Germany has a very negative and instructive experience when the law - enforcement of state authorities was violated in the Weimar Republic, leading to the emergence of a powerful vacuum. Since 1930, a number of early elections have been held and the state authorities have been temporarily suspended. This allows the adventurer and radical Hitler to come to power legally. If we compare Germany two times, we can see clearly what preceded Hitler’s coming to power and what became a guarantor of democracy in modern Germany. In the run-up to the elections, public authorities perform their functions until the newly elected authorities are formed. The Weimar Republic was destroyed by a lack of institutional legitimacy. Perhaps in Ukraine we should consider other people’s mistakes. What happens to us under the influence of volunteerism and radical political forces, and what the consequences are for all of us after such a victory. On the part of Ukrainian radicals, the most secretive means are total institutional terrorism and any form of political stability is contained. What should be done immediately? First of all, it's a series of measures that I've been talking about in my previous speech, namely, giving a common, scientifically balanced understanding of the political situation as a result of what lies ahead in the future after the victory of the radicals and the volunteers. Secondly, I know very well that among many political forces, and above all “Our Ukraine”, there are sufficiently intelligent politicians who are well aware of how this will end. An immediate dialogue and a broad form of cooperation with these political forces must be initiated. I am addressing members of the National Unity Coalition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u7	Let me finish, 10 seconds literally.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u8	To all the national MPs. Right now, we need to understand the need for a wide-ranging dialogue and understanding with all political parties, with democratic parties that are not part of Parliament, with public structures, with authoritative regional politicians, and with intelligent people. Third, while we are in the regions, we may have all pointed out how the media at all levels represent the position of the only advocate for justice, the leader of the united opposition. A broad explanation of what this fight is worth and what justice is for. For the fact that the President’s eight - month premiere was compensated by Ukraine’s only energy system, 5.8 billion dollars. Other sources call it even greater sums. Or the justice that her associates in the Brodsky, Vidrin, and others show. And finally, the last. Now more than ever, we need to support the democratically established President and shield him from the total pressure of harsh radicals, because the pressure on public consciousness and the use of elections, as a means of gaining power at any cost today, will no longer go to the radicals. So now, more than ever, it is necessary for the government and all the healthy political forces to put in place a system of educational measures that can lead to public awareness all the horror and unpredictability of political adventure and radicalism. The so - called opposition went down the path of destruction. institutions of power, not thinking about what they're turning into institutions of this power, when they finally come to these ruins themselves, and what the attitude in the minds of citizens is going to be to this power. I've given examples from the history of other countries, and we have to draw conclusions from our history.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u9	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u10	History repeats itself as, once a tragedy, twice a disaster. So they must unite in Ukraine now for their future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u11	Thank you. You say the right things, just try to invest in five minutes, because there's no time left for factions. John Boki of the Socialist faction. Please. He will be followed by the Head.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u12	Dear colleagues! Dear voters! Perhaps you've heard yesterday's demonizing of the lustful woman and the dream of a poet, if the Constitutional Court doesn't say what they want, it's not our court, justice, it's said, sold. The self-proclaimed Democrats are ready to repeat themselves after Ostap Bender, that is, they don't know that the three of us now, we're going to give you "parabels", not "parabels," but we're going to take everyone out. Their court is not a court, the Constitution is not a Constitution, they are, as their spiritual ancestor, Ostap Ibrahimovich, convinced, more cynicism, people like it. Outside it all looks like a plumber, a tragedy comedy, a farce. This action, however, was involved by the Pharisees in the politics of Ukraine, deceiving people, and we must rescue them from them, the insolent Christian sellers, from being ridiculed and raped by the country. And the violence is already going on: price increases, the economy is going down, and that's what they need, land solving, land market problems, there's good reason to wait for gas prices, and we understand very well that it's a very favorable situation for them. The clans want to leave the country again, as they are accustomed to abandoning humans. We must tear the people of Ukraine out of their lashes, but not by means of blasphemy, white - fashion lies, slanderers with God’s name on their mouths, but honestly, responsibly and seriously. How? We socialists believe that we should trust the Constitutional Court first. Just like that. Yes, there is, of course, a bunch of Pharisees. But we believe in the mind and responsibility of a healthy majority of this highest judicial institution. On the benches of the judges today, the fate of the country, the fate of the Ukrainians, the future of the state. The only guide to them is the Constitution, not the cry of the crowd, the will of the Messiah, or the messiahs. Let us believe in the judgment and do not be ashamed of those who have the highest trust in it. Yes, of course, political mechanisms must be involved, but they must be removed from them by means of deception. You can hardly take seriously as a step of a mature husband, rather than a figure of the political leader of the proposal, for example, to suspend for a time the period of action of the Passover decree and at the same time consider this decree in the Constitutional Court. Not even to offer such a decent companionship seriously. Similarly, it is not serious to place ultimatums in a few weeks to adopt a mountain of laws on a predetermined subject and prescribed provisions on the return of the actual monarchy and the burial of the polytreform. They would also suggest reenacting the gulag for the fullness of the painting and praying for new missions. We should certainly go to the negotiating process, but not as humble and capitulants, but as consciously responsible for the fate of the nation’s sons and daughters. The content of the negotiations is to be consistent with the letter and the functioning Constitution, and even the changes to it are to be built on its letter, otherwise chaos and fraud will prevail in Ukraine. No one is allowed to fight the Constitution. There are democracies in Europe and in the world, and Ukraine should not be a covert exception. No imperative mandates for flies in one’s noses or brain eclipses to impose political fortification on Ukraine, no deviations from the European-tested system of government, no hetmanism, and other features of medieval gloom. Dilettantes from politics and art in the department allow themselves to challenge the difficult torture of Ukrainian democracy, which has taken a step towards European standards in the economy, politics, and social spheres. When the adventurers realized that they were losing in every direction, that the coalition was sure to pull the state out of it, they tried to force the situation to change, to get in the wrong business of the President. We should stretch out our hands, perhaps forgetting some unintelligent actions, but we should not allow ourselves to be involved in a battle that undermines the country. We are ready for a sober dialogue, but not for empty long - term terrain around someone’s obsessive ideas and satisfaction with ambitious and business interests. 40 years ago, Olesia Potter urged the contemporaries: we think of the great. For us, Ukraine is big and important. It must be saved from a variety of apherists, speculators, political merchants. When we are united by a great one, Ukraine will be invincible and invincible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u13	Thank you. The word is given by the Head of Sergey Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u14	Dear Mr. Head, fellow MPs! I am also glad that the parliamentary rostrum remains probably the only source of free speech for me. And I want to share my thoughts about the Strasbourg events, because in the whole week of being in Strasbourg, no journalist, no company I have an interview, no comment, even though I was in the epicenter of events, and I have four options for a draft resolution on Ukraine that changed on April 16, 17, 18 and 19. But it turns out that Ukrainian journalists weren't interested. Most likely, they were not interested in their masters, who set up a monopoly on the word and made it possible to speak only to one force. So what I want to say again, but I said a little bit about this on "1+1" when I was with Nemira. 107 deputies took part in the vote. 107 voted in favour of this resolution of 117. 107 – all of them, virtually all of them, this is whatever Western Europe, Central Europe, Russia -- all of them stood at the same moment that the decision of the Constitutional Court should be the key moment in Ukrainian events. This proposal was not included in the draft resolutions. The draft resolutions at the outset had one thing: political negotiations and political compromise. To this day, I know exactly what this compromise is about: the compromise is about changing the Supreme Council's head into a coalition leader. I'm not going to interfere with the coalition, let her decide, maybe she's better off changing the leader of the coalition than changing the speaker of the Supreme Council, but that's their business. One thing I want to say is why the opposition of the Constitutional Court was so afraid. Yes, their efforts were directed at one thing: discredit the court, say that it does not function, say that it is corrupt, say that it is unable to make decisions and so on and so forth. And of course, in these days, the Constitutional Court judges themselves have added oil to the fire because in Europe they could not understand how the five judges of the Constitutional Court could speak in advance about the decisions they had made — to refuse the work of the court. Of course, it was not in the interest of the opposition that the BUT faction, which stormed the Constitutional Court and prevented the judges of the Constitutional Court, was a great surprise to the very ones with whom we had to debate. I want to say that in the monitoring committee, where there are only two members of the Ukrainian delegation -- me and Vitaly Sibko -- there was an extremely difficult position, because two key paragraphs, under an imperative mandate and three times, were given a legal assessment of the President's decree as legal, nine times a nine-by-nine vote in the monitoring committee. Nine to nine means that the decision is not taken, and everything depended on the head of the monitoring committee, which in such a situation has the right to either vote in favour, or vote against, or abstain. If the chairman of the committee had held back, the decision would not have been taken, but he was a European, he was a representative of the German Parliament, he said, "I support the position of one that is based on what the Constitutional Court has to say, whatever it may be." It's a constitutional law institution, it's an institution of the rule of law, it's a master of the situation in Ukraine today, again, whatever that decision might be. And yesterday's statement to Judge Campo that this is a political issue, I really care about the professional fitness of these judges. If the lawyer says there's no right, it's a political dispute, that the President's decree is a political document, that the President's mandate is a political dispute, that there's nothing to talk about, that the President's mandate is again. It's an ideological possible thing, not a legal one, so I doubt the competence of a judge who at this stage says that we have to decide politically. Clearly, what they want to decide politically. Because everyone in Europe, in Russia, in Ukraine, the vast majority of lawyers, if they are lawyers, they know that there is no iota in the President's Order of Legal Grounds, in order to clear up this situation, in order to make it white in any way else, Europeans would want this to be decided politically, not legally, because a legal decision is a failure, a failure of a political career of a person whom it is not, the head of state, who in no way has any right to act unconstitutionally. That's why they're now in favor of a pre-legal settlement. But I want to say to the Supreme Council, and to the coalition, and to those who are here today, the only basis for Ukraine's movement forward is the legal basis, this is the decision of the Constitutional Court and the ruling of the PARE resolution. You can't walk away from this. If there is a retreat, then Ukraine will continue to be in political strife and political prospect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u15	Thank you. Instead, the word of Eutukh is given to Rudnik. Yeah? Ah, Stoyan. I'm standing. And Rudnik. But it won't be there anymore. Please, three minutes. Please. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Alexander Mikolaiovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u16	Alexander Stoyan, member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of the Party of Regions. I would like to draw your attention once again to the main provisions of the Resolution adopted by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe last week. I do this because the delegates from the opposition who took part in this meeting shamelessly claim that, as if these resolutions had responded favorably to the President's decree and called upon all political forces to implement it. As a participant in this session, I make it clear that this is a series of political lies at the international level. Already in the first paragraph of the resolution, the Parliamentary Assembly identified who became the main source of political opposition in Ukraine. I quote: “The Parliamentary Assembly has been concerned about political developments in Ukraine in recent weeks. The culmination -- I pay attention -- was the culmination of President Yushchenk's decree of 2 April 2007 on the announcement of the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine." End of quote. I'm paying particular attention to paragraph 14. The Resolution clearly states that it rejects all political speculation. I quote: “The Assembly reiterates that the authority of the single body, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, must be guaranteed and respected. Pressure in any form against judges is unacceptable and must be investigated and prosecuted in the order of criminal justice.” And I draw attention to one more point, to the following sentences of this resolution: “There is an urgent need for a decision on the constitutionality of the President’s decree of April 2, 2007. Once the decision is made, it must be recognised as compulsory for all parties.” Period. End of quote. And no other treatments. Thus, the faction of the Party of Regions and our coalition colleagues have received international confirmation that we have taken the right position: only the Constitutional Court can rule on the constitutionality of the President's Order. And whatever it is, we're going to make that decision. And so it's very strange to hear how our opponents, and not only them, but also the staff of the President's Secretariat, prepare in advance the public opinion that they would disagree with the Constitutional Court's decision. Here is Timoshenko's statement she made on Maidan: “We will not make any decisions of the Constitutional Court.” Isn't that a call for anti-constitutional action? Is this not a step toward political terrorism? I'm not saying that yesterday on TV, Kowal, from Our Ukraine, I also supported Campo, who is already handling the Constitutional Court, interpreting the Order, and more than that, calling for an end to the debate. So, dear colleagues, I'd like to remind the gentlemen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u17	Finish your thought, please, now, now. Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u18	I would like to remind the Democrats that in December 2004, the Supreme Court of Ukraine ruled on the third round of presidential elections. Although half of the population who voted for Viktor Yanukovic considered the decision unacceptable, Viktor Fedorovich then stepped down, admitting to the court’s decision, thereby saving the country from destruction. We did not invite people to the playgrounds, to the actions of disobedience, but we acted like a civilized opposition. Therefore, the President of Ukraine, as a guarantor of the Constitution, must be the first to recognize the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, whatever it may be. If the court finds the Order unconstitutional, immediately repeal this Order, call upon all citizens, as stated in the PARE resolution, to comply with it. If he does not do so, the full responsibility for possible further action will be on his conscience.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have used the time taken to speak by factions and individual deputies have spoken. Let us briefly summarize what is happening today in the session room in particular. You know, you can talk about the threat of sovereignty, as stated in the President's famous decree. You can talk about the question of forming a coalition, the legitimacy or the illegality of power. You can talk about trusting the Constitutional Court, making dirty hints about judges, discrediting the court, pushing it. Well, example one, I am not commenting, I will just read a letter from the President to the head of the Constitutional Court: “In view of the need for a detailed analysis of the events that took place during the plenary session of the Constitutional Court on April 17th on the constitutional submission of the 53 national deputies on the conformity of the Ukrainian Constitution with the Presidential Decree of April 2nd, please provide a certified copy of the transcript of this session. At the same time, I would like to inform you in which regime, whether open or closed, the plenary session of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine was held on April 5 on the determination of the form of hearing of the case in question.” I'm not commenting, because those who were preparing for the President's signature of such an adventurous note obviously didn't think that this was a direct intervention and pressure on the court, because no one was allowed to intervene in the procedural and not just the essentials of the case, the case of the court, the individual branch of power. You can push it another way. This is a correspondence between the Ukrainian Security Service, the construction and municipal organizations of Kiev regarding the apartment that allegedly incriminates itself as Susanna's property, the Station and the correspondence between the BSS and the Attorney General's Office, and the reply of the Attorney General's Office to the Constitutional Court judge, which is that the study of these materials is established that they do not have any data on you getting bribes or other corruption. They are involved in criminal proceedings in the course of a pretrial investigation that will give a legal assessment of all these circumstances. But this is a criminal case involving the intervention of the Constitutional Court by the Security Service of its employees. It can be believed that a flaming opposition woman has fought for the well - being of people for all her years of independence, as is the case at many rallies. You can write statements of representation by the deputies and hide them at the President's Secretariat or elsewhere, knowing that these statements don't mean anything. You can tell the truth about betraying the mouths of those who have betrayed everyone for a long time. You can call for early elections, convince them that they are the cleansing of power. But all of this does not cover up a simple obvious truth: an unconstitutional decree, an illegal decree. And that's only true, and that's why it's dangerous for Ukraine. Why do I say "hazard"? In 95, I was in Belgrade. I was well acquainted with Milosevich, Slobodan Milosovic, the leader of this country. It was then stronger and much larger than it is now. But the concentration of power was in one hand, and Parliament was working only with the President's consent. Then came the debates, elections, conflicts on an ethnic, religious, other basis, social basis. Then came more than 3,000 victims after barbaric intervention about the country. Then there were additional elections, and the situation that is in Kosovo today, you understand that very well. Is that what we want in Ukraine? We have to think, after all, that the risk of losing the unity of Ukraine is enormous. And these criminal assassinations, which we see from one political structure, from the power structure, to provoke opposition, will not lead to good. I'd like to address anyone who has anything to do with this. Come on, people are good! It's going to end badly for the state. You can't move like that. And in order to get out of this colossus, it has to be based on any legal basis. But it's not any one, it's the Constitutional Court's decision. We don't know what it's going to be like, but we're convinced that it should be fair to answer to the Constitution. That's why we said from the beginning, by the way, like our opponents, that we would submit to the Constitutional Court's decision. The closer we are to the final session of the Constitutional Court, the more we hear that it is worthless to them. What, then, is worth it? On what can we rely? Once again, the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the Constitution, consultations, compromises on this basis will lead Ukraine out of this conflict, which is artificially created in the struggle for power by several people. There is no social interest in this. Evil is done only for the state, evil for the specific citizens. So keep in mind that the parliament on this line is not going to come down. The coalition will lead this line consistently because it is true, it corresponds to the basic law. And I appeal to those deputies of opposition, who today, whether for moral reasons or for feeling obliged to their leaders, but for whom appropriate gestures have already been made, neglecting their rights has been made by their leaders, go to the session room, work. No one forced you to make a coalition decision, and those who pretend to be you are blackmailing you because they are also afraid of losing their parliamentary status. The only way out is to uphold the Constitution, the law, the Constitutional Court's decision and compromise by removing the clues that today give rise to separate, sorry, the passages to fight for power in this way. It won't work. The truth will prevail and the truth will follow us, the truth will follow our people. Thank you. [[Applause]] We have the first dayly issue of information from the Head of the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe regarding the second session of the PARJE. Reports the Head of the Permanent Delegation, head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Vitaly Jakovitch Šibko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u20	Dear colleagues, on April 16-20, 2007 was the third session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which was attended by the Permanent Delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The agenda of the session was to consider the following issues: the activities of the Bureau and the permanent committee of the Assembly, the fulfilment of obligations and obligations by Azerbaijan, the accession of the Republic of Montenegro to the Council of Europe, the Code of Good Conduct for Political Parties, candidates for the European Court of Human Rights, the situation of human rights in Europe, the state of democracy in Europe, the progress of the Assembly in the procedure, the Memorandum of Understanding between the Council of Europe and the European Union, the question of fair treatment of criminal matters relating to espionage or the disclosure of state secrets, the need to adopt a Council of Europe Convention on Counterfeiting and Trade in Counterfeited Produce and the Quality of Medicine in Europe. An urgent discussion was held on the functioning of the democratic institutions of Ukraine with the invitation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Alexander Moroz, and the situation in the Middle East, the draft Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Violence, and the procedure for discussing the current events of the Sudan and Darfur - the responsibility of Europe. As guests of the session, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine, head of the Parliament of the Republic of Montenegro Krivokapic, Head of the Cabinet of Ministers, Minister of Foreign Affairs of San Marino Stolfi, addressed the Assembly. In discussing the situation of human rights and democracy in Europe, Human Rights Council Commissioner Hammarberg, Head of the European Court of Human Rights of Costa, High Commissioner for Human Rights Arbour, Secretary-General of the International Amnesty Khan, Director of Human Rights Watch Roth, Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe Scard, Vice-President of the Venice Commission of Bonichi, Head of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture of Palma, Head of the European Committee against Racism and Intolerance of Asmussen, Vice-President of the Committee for the Framework Convention for the Protection of Minorities, spoke to the Assembly. From the Ukrainian delegation, the Assembly debates were: Glavatius, Šibko, Nemira, Bilozur, Bogotyrov, Bondarenko, Simonenko, Gerasimük, Popescu, Tihonov, Yanovski. The delegation of the Ukrainian Parliament was able to meet several times with reporters from the Parje monitoring committee in Ukraine Severinsen and Wolvend, president of PARJE van der Linden, Secretary-General Terry Davis. During the meeting, a decision was made to hold a political committee meeting in Kiev from 21 to 23 May of this year, and at a meeting at the invitation of Alexander Moroz to Kiev, van der Linden will arrive. The daily report on the work of the session was submitted to the relevant departments of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the media. I think my colleagues are familiar with the course of events, and all I'm going to say is that almost two days were dedicated to Ukraine. On the first day before the Assembly, Prime Minister Viktor Janukovic of Ukraine gave a high appreciation for the role of the institutions of the Council of Europe in establishing the benchmarks of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Europe. The executive branch director pointed out to the Assembly that for two years, when the Presidential Coalition was in power, it had not fulfilled its obligations, particularly laid down in the Paris Recommendations 1466 of 2005 on the need for the adoption of laws on the President of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the judiciary, parliamentary interim and investigators of commissions, the Supreme Council of Ukraine regulations and others. The Prime Minister dismissed any charges of usurpation of power and confirmed the willingness of the parliamentary majority to compromise with the opposition that was demonstrated when a third of the minister's portfolios were received by representatives of the pro-President political power. He stated that the coalition was ready to continue negotiations, excluding a strong choice of developments only within the framework of the law and on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. First of all, the Prime Minister of Ukraine thanked the Assembly for the invaluable assistance it has provided to our country on the path to democracy, human rights and the rule of law, confirms that it will continue to operate exclusively within the framework of the Constitution of Ukraine. I think it will be more interesting for colleagues to get more information about how events are going to happen when they are being heard in the late-forthcoming debates in South Africa about the functioning of democratic institutions in Ukraine. So I'm going to stop at this in more detail. I'll remind you that they were initiated by a group of coalition deputies to support the reports from the Monitoring Committee and colleagues from other delegations. Neither the Bureau of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, which defined them, nor in the voting room, had any objections about the need for debate. Members of the Monitoring Committee should be given due credit, which was entrusted with the preparation of the report and the draft resolution. The documents were prepared in a concise text, which speaks of the interest and concern of PARJE in the course of political events in Ukraine. From our coalition, an active work was carried out by the deputy headate. I will not stop at the text of the resolutions. I'm just going to try to briefly report that it was discussed, which indicates the mood of the session. I'm going to point out that only five changes and additions have been proposed since the opposition, three of them have gone through, and only one of them has gone through, I'm sorry, everyone else hasn't gone through. Their content is as follows: I want to focus your attention on this very context, because they are unknown to the general public, including the media. The first was the addition: “The Assembly understands the concern of opposition parties over the fact that the seemingly dishonest means used by the ruling coalition to involve a large number of deputies from the opposition have created a situation where the political configuration in the Supreme Council of Ukraine is no longer in line with the results of the 2006 parliamentary elections and continues to be distrustful of the final intentions of the coalition majority regarding the preservation of the modern political system.” This was Amendment 10, which was not voted on by either the Monitoring Committee or the Hall. Next. Apparently, another amendment was made: “At the same time, the Assembly expresses concern about establishing the practice of mass expansion of the coalition by means of numerous transfers to it by deputies from other factions. This constitutes a violation of constitutional provisions and of current legislation, and de facto is a distortion of national disclosure.” That was Amendment 2, which didn't go through either. And there was no amendment that was such as this: “The Assembly reminds us that the rule of law requires legal determination, so the presidential decree should be considered valid until another decision is declared by the appropriate body, or Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Until the Constitutional Court has stopped applying the decree or has declared it unconstitutional, this decree is binding.” That was Amendment 6. There was also no proposal to delete paragraph 15. 4, where the election system is scheduled to change to the Supreme Council by entering open party lists and so on. Only the change in adverbs was made at the end of paragraph 14 at the beginning of the sentence from the word “when” to the word “if”. At the same time, opposition representatives joined the amendments made by the reporters. Three of the four amendments have been made: the preservation of military neutrality and the clarification of paragraph 14 concerning the activities of the Constitutional Court. The one that didn't go through, I've already mentioned as Amendment 10. There was no amendment to the other deputies, which suggested that paragraph nine should be deleted altogether, where it was an unacceptable application of the mandatory mandate. At the same time, the resolution added amendments, which in paragraph five referred to the possibility of holding a proper early election, paragraph 13 on the recognition of the failure of senior judges and paragraph 15.3. 3 says that in Ukraine it is necessary to establish a procedure for organising early elections first, not to improve it as suggested. They were also proposed by members of the coalition. It's about the 11th, where it's about the early elections. Here, in the course of the discussion, a supplement was made that, unlike the project previously proposed, is now that 60 days are unreliable and do not guarantee the right conditions for fair and free elections. And instead of a sentence that made it a policy point for the Central Electoral Commission to be allocated financial resources. The Assembly merely expressed regret that the government had failed to do so, although members of the coalition were offered other formations. Thus, it can be said that the Assembly has weighedly approached the characteristics in the resolution on the situation in Ukraine, it has not pushed Ukraine into a series of early elections, it stresses several times the need to respect and guarantee the authority of a single body of constitutional justice, the Constitutional Court and strongly condemns the possibility of applying an imperative mandate that is unacceptable in a democratic state, which is the cause of the parliamentary crisis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u21	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u22	At the same time, the Assembly noted that constitutional reform had not been completed, even called it hasty, and proposed to renew the constitutional reform project, improve it, bring it into line with European standards, and above all called on all parties to the conflict to participate in an open and constructive dialogue on the solution of the existing situation in Ukraine. In conclusion, the rapporteurs of Severinsen and Wolvend, as well as those of the deputies in the debate, almost everyone noted the important role of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. His decisions should not only be followed but also implemented, according to colleagues. And only a colleague of Inkok from Great Britain doubted the Constitutional Court's ability to make a decision that would govern the people of Ukraine, as he pointed out. Some of it was supported by representatives of our delegation – Nemira, Bilozore and Bondarenko, who thought that the President's decree was to be followed by the decision of the KSO, questioned its effectiveness. Most speakers stressed the need for a constructive dialogue, the rule of law, the removals that were inconsistent between laws, that the ability to prevent situations of crisis by peaceful means, by means of negotiations. As you can see, my fellow Members, the very course of discussion on this issue has shown that today the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe considers our Parliament to be valid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u23	Thank you, Vitaly Yakovich. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues, we have heard information and those who participated in the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the head of our delegation on how the issue was dealt with there. We express our gratitude to the Parliamentarians of the Council of Europe for assessing our situation, but once again let us stress that our internal affairs are with you to decide for ourselves, and no one will help us in this matter, except that they will give us an assessment. And the situation. Sometimes it comes up well, I'd say absurd, if not more. Here's the paperwork. I really don't know such a Ukrainian political scientist as Roman Ignatovich, maybe someone heard him, but I didn't hear him at least. I'm afraid it might be, but it might be the same as the truth. [[queued duck]] The news agency Regnium interviewed this so-called political scientist, and he speaks out there openly about the fact that he had already proposed some of the functions of the capital from Kiev to move to the city of Lviv. As a person who has given so much to this city, I am pleased to note that it is the great cultural and political center of Ukraine, but not all of Ukraine. And then he says a lot more. I'm sorry, I'm going to quote the original language, this is an interview in Russian. “But if President Yushchenko is not able to take the situation under his control, I think we should talk about more, namely, the western areas of the country, which are in fact a truly historic Ukraine, we will have to initiate the process of separation from the eastern part of the country and the creation of a new independent State for the finalization of the long-chosen Euro-integration course.” And then this, with the permission to say, pseudopolitician, if he has something in his head, sorry for the rudeness of the non-parliamentary, says and recommends how it should be done. Do as was the case in 2004: make a decision of the local councils, make a decision there, and resolve the issue of the distribution of the state. Well, I don't believe anyone has such delusional thoughts, but unfortunately, knowing some of the so-called political scientists, I don't rule out that someone might have that idea. Therefore, we must be quite alert in terms of preserving the unity and unity of our nation and standing on the letter of the Constitution and those laws that protect, indeed, the sovereignty of our state. And if I were the guarantor of the Constitution, I'd go to the Attorney General's Office to see what a political scientist is and how he's calling for hostility to start. And give it not only a legal but also a punitive evaluation. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. A draft Law on the implementation of the mandatory public pension scheme, registration number 2854, is under consideration. He will report to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy of Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Get ready for Dmitri Saint. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I think it's a big event today, because it's that bill that I'm reporting today on behalf of the Prime Minister of Ukraine, he's completing for us the formation of a multi-level pension system. You will recall that in 2003, particularly in July, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there were very important bills that started the pension reform: this is the Ukrainian National Pension Insurance Act and the Ukrainian Non-Governmental Pension Insurance Act, and it was provided for by law, the Basic Law of Ukraine, “On a General Compulsory State Pension Insurance,” which, as of 1 January 2007, is to begin operating a mandatory accumulation system. That is, from 1 January 2007, we have Ukrainian citizens in the next to be able to receive three-fold pensions: the first component of the solidarity system pension, i.e. the calculation of working Ukrainian citizens to the Ukrainian Pension Fund; the second is a general obligation to collect and the third is a voluntary additional pension. So in the next we can prove the substitution rate, and you know, this is the ratio of the average pension to the average wage of 50 to 60 percent, as it is today in Europe. That is, so that we can introduce European standards of living in Ukraine in the next. And it's not our problem that in two years, and in 2005 and 2006, the then-acting governments have failed to submit such an important law to the Supreme Council. First of all, why is it important? The solidarity system is very vulnerable to the demographic situation. So today we're paying pensions from the solidarity system because of the positions that the working citizens of Ukraine are counting. On the average, if one working citizen of Ukraine is a single pensioner today, this situation will worsen in the next. One of the workers will have 1.5 pensioners in the next. To get out of this situation, we're either going to need to increase the counting, that is, the workload on the wage fund, or increase the retirement age. Or, for God's sake, cut pensions. That's why, and this is the main task of the government, to anticipate this situation and to work today for 10 years, 15 years ahead, and to ensure a stable and annual increase in pensions for Ukrainian citizens, and not just a nominal pension, but a real pension. I'd like to remind you of the numbers. If the average pension in Ukraine was 113 dollars at the start of the pension reform, on April 1, and that's a nice figure, the average pension in Ukraine was 508. So in less than four years, we've managed to increase the pension almost five times for Ukrainian citizens, and that's not the last increase. On March 13, this year, during a work trip to the province of Ravenna, the prime minister of Ukraine is tasked with calculating the possibility of a further increase in pensions and salaries for Ukrainian citizens after the first half of the year. As of January 1, 2009, Ukrainian nationals who have not reached the age of 40 will be able to participate in the work of contributing to the mandatory accumulation system. First of January 1st, these contributions will amount to 2 percent, then increase by 1 percent annually, and will result in 7 percent of the contributions to the Stockpiling Fund. Next steps. From this Stockpiling Fund and its administration will be implemented by the Pension Fund of Ukraine, these funds will be placed in state securities, on bank deposits, after the adoption of the Act on Shareholders, these funds can be invested in issuer shares, and Ukrainian citizens will be able to receive this component pension in nominal terms plus investment income. Another news is that it's going to be the property of Ukrainian citizens, and they're going to be stockpiling on Ukrainian citizens' personalized accounts. They will be able to inherit. That is, when they retire, these citizens will be able to receive an additional component of the pension from the accumulation system, and life is life, if they die, they will inherit those family members who are entitled to it. In addition, it is stipulated by the Ukrainian law that if a Ukrainian citizen goes to a permanent place outside Ukraine, he will also be able to withdraw the funds from the accumulation system. Dear colleagues, what is the importance of this bill? Because it provides us with two components: improving citizens' well-being and, more importantly, improving Ukraine's investment economy. That is, the funds that will be accumulated in the general system will be channelled to the economy of Ukraine. For 2009, and this is the calculation of the scientific institutions of our ministry, the additional investment resource of Ukraine's economy will be 2 billion 800 million dollars. By 2014, the investment resource will increase to 23 billion dollars. In addition, we are planning, now accelerated, is the prime minister of Ukraine's mandate, the acceleration of wage increases. This will also allow you to increase these components of investment in the economy. And if we are able to create 26,000 jobs in 2009, in 2014, at the expense of the accumulation system alone in Ukraine's economy, 684,000 jobs will be created in one year. So this is a balanced law that just balances the interests of Ukrainian citizens, improves their pensions, as well as the interests of the economy, improves people's well-being, increases their revenues to Ukraine's state budget. And I would ask the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this important bill and vote for it in the first reading. The bill was considered by the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Finance and Banking, the Committee of the Supreme Council on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. At the suggestion of these committees, the bill is proposed to be approved in the first reading. And I am convinced that, together with the people's deputies of Ukraine, we will be able to finalize this bill for second reading, to settle all the points. Because in this bill, we're going to have to keep you on balance, balancing the interests of the citizens and the economy of Ukraine. I also call attention to the national MPs of Ukraine and ask your support for the fact that it is precisely the first contribution in 2009 of 2 percent to the mandatory accumulation system that is provided in the law by the mechanism of so-called grossing of wages to compensate Ukrainian citizens. I mean, so that the money they receive doesn't go down, it just goes up. And that's why this bill, it's socially important, it's a priority. I am grateful to the national deputies of Ukraine who worked in the working group for their social partners, because this bill has been approved by both the U.S. trade unions and the Ukrainian employers' organizations. I ask you to support this bill and accept it in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u25	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, six minutes. Murderer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u26	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Dear Michael Mikolaiovich, in the conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, notes that there are institutional conditions for the introduction of a recalculation of part of the insurance contributions to the stockpiling fund. What are we today ready to implement the second level of the pension system, including the Ukrainian Pension Fund?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u27	Thank you. The country’s distinguished national deputies, part of the preparation for the implementation of this law, have made a decision. And that's what the Ukrainian national MPs decided to do, do an experiment. And this experiment was conducted in the Lviv region of Sokalsk and the Jewish region. During this experiment, a model of creating software for the personalised calculation of Ukrainian citizens' contributions was being developed. In addition to this, we have shown perspective and have also been able to identify some nuances that need to be addressed in our basic bill. And now the government's draft Ukrainian law on the continuation of this experiment, but already with the administration of the contributions. I mean, so that we can work out another model for the company's asset management, the savings bank, and also deal with other issues that we're going to have to take into account by January 1, 2009, so that we can approach very carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u28	Packet, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u29	Pacheuk, the faction of the regions. Please pass the word to Chechev Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u30	Chechtov's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u31	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! I have this question before Michael Mikolaiovich. Well, while opposition has been beating for two months, it doesn't work in Parliament, but wages, according to Alexander Alexander Alexanderovich, are getting in time, and it's very good that the government has developed a very important social-important bill, which is really aimed at raising the standard of living of millions of people. I have this question, two questions. First. Is it presumptive for women to receive pension benefits from the second level of the pension system before reaching a well-established retirement age of 55 and for men to 60? And the second question. We know that there is an experiment, a pilot program, in the Sokal region, in the Sokal region, in the region of Lviv, and in the Jewish region, a pilot program for the introduction of a mandatory cumulative pension system. Any results yet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the people of Ukraine, once again, I would like to draw your attention. See, in 2005 and 2006, this bill was not submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and so instead of being able to introduce this very important bill from January 1, 2007, we will submit it now and we will implement it as of January 1, 2009. Yes, it's stipulated in the law that Ukrainian citizens will be able to get their money in advance of retirement, because that's their property, if they go outside Ukraine, as I said, if they're given the disability of the first or second group and also in the event of death. And with regard to the experiment, the experiment in Sokalsky and the Jewish region was being conducted in order that the government today has no right to take and experiment on all citizens of Ukraine. We need to count very carefully the investment possibilities, count as much as the citizens of Ukraine can get from the accumulation of the gross system of this pension supplement. This should be done with great care, preparation, preparation of software. Me, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u33	Alexander Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u34	Alexander Stoyan, faction of the Party of the Regions, social committee. This is indeed a new very serious step in the retirement provision of citizens. So I have three short questions, dear reporter. Will people be willing to pay the contributions, or is everyone? Second question. How can these costs be protected from inflation? We know that inflation can eat them. And the third short question. What is the mechanism for calculating these costs? I mean, whether it's automatic, you write a statement or you bring it yourself. How will this be done? And what I want to say in general is that this is a very important step, and I think we're going to support it, because it's going to be a personalized pension bill, and it's going to be a big bonus to the Pension Fund. And it's also very important if you can't make a statement, it's the money that's going to stay with either the wife or the kids or the grandchildren, so they're not going to be in the general union or in the general boiler, and that's that. Fund. I think we need to back him up, but I'm asking you to answer my three short questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u35	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, a very important question. I would like to draw the attention of both the national deputies of Ukraine and the citizens who listen to us. Now, today, if the contribution to the Pension Fund is paid by the employer 34.2 percent, we predict the introduction of a accumulation system by reducing the employer's contribution by 2 percent to the solidarity pension system. So there's not going to be any percent or even a percentage of the increase in the workload on the wage fund. In addition, it is a must - be accumulation system, and a decision has been made, and we have looked at the various options and 45 years in order for citizens over 45 years of age to participate voluntarily in this mandatory accumulation system. A decision has been taken, along with the national deputies of Ukraine, to participate in a citizen who has reached the age of 40 at the time of payment, and it will be a mandatory law for all. And that's very carefully calculated. Besides that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u36	Thank you, Mikhailo Mikolaiovich. Have a seat, please. Deputy Head of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Dmitry Volodymyrovich, from the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u37	Ladies and gentlemen of the national parliament, the honourable presiding officer! The Committee on Finance and Banking, at its meeting on April 3, 2007, reviewed the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers’ draft Ukrainian Law on the introduction of a mandatory public pension insurance system, registration number 2854. The bill is the second level of three-level pension reform launched in 2004. The first and third levels are already in operation thanks to the adoption of the Laws “On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance”, “On Non-State Pension Insurance”. The importance of adopting the bill is difficult to overestimate. And it is not possible to postpone pension reform further, because in the medium term, the current 40 percent ratio of the average pension to the average wage will fall to 20 percent. [[so-called substitution coefficient]] And only the implementation of the accumulation system will make it possible to fix the situation and provide pensions from two levels of nearly 60 percent to the average wage. The Minister of State has strongly stopped at the substance of the bill, and I will only point out that the implementation of the reform in 2009 is a little late, since 2007 was the best time, but the minister has already stressed what this has not been done. But if we don't get a second level in 2009, we're going to lose the last chance, because the demographic situation is going to get more and more rapidly. The main risk is that after 2009, the number of working people will decrease with each year, and the number of pensioners will increase. The committee at its meeting decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 01.03. In 2007, he also expressed support for the bill in the first reading. Our colleagues from the Committees of Economic Policy, Budget and Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons also recommend that the bill be adopted as a basis. This bill is social-directed and will allow the introduction of a state-level material provision for future pensioners. Thank you for your attention. Please support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u38	Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, please, six minutes. Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u39	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, I didn't want to ask Mr. Minister any more questions and to today's reporter, you know very well how no one, Adam Ivanovich, has ever called this project a long time ago, and there are thoughts about this project in Parliament and in the government, around which it is essential for Ukraine. And that's why I think today, no matter how much we're discussing it in terms of articles there or at other points, I think we need to take it at an accelerated rate today in the first reading and not immediately take it to the second reading. And a lot, I think, there are some changes and additions I think there are to make it better to accept, and I think in this session we need to accept it in a second reading and as a whole as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u40	Thank you. We'll assume that you've been involved in the discussion. Sergei Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u41	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Dmitry Vladimirovic, well, that we need to reform the pension system, I think there is no doubt about that, and we supported the bill in faction. We have only two questions and two doubts in this direction. Question one: These are the retirees who retired until the year 91. Today, the entire system of pension reform leaves these people behind, and we are virtually invisible to them, although those who formed the foundation of our economy have worked honestly, in good faith, and so it has been achieved that they are now being left behind with the reform of the pension system. Is there any way that the Ministry has a vision of supporting this category of people, because they've been hit by contributions, they've been hit on many other things, and this is a complex category of people -- mostly children of war and so on. This is the first moment. And second moment. Things related to population structure, things related to inflation, things related to people who work outside Ukraine. It's in the complex, so let's say, it's kind of scary. Are there any protective mechanisms in this direction that have been worked together by the Ministry and the Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u42	Thank you for the important question. In fact, the problem with people who have retired up to the age of 91 remains. But the bill certainly applies to those who work, but it does exist as a compensator for the possibility of redistribution of funds through the system budget that exists today. But in principle, both of these issues are for consideration by both the Committee and the Ministry of Justice. for the second reading procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u43	Pussy, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u44	Of course, the issue of reforming the pension fund is a very relevant issue and the very desire is already worthy of respect. Although I understand how you and I have to adapt European norms to this situation in our time with you in a sleepy, tax-free state. Although this situation may make people more into the tax field, because those who will be covered by this part of the pension can only be from the tax field. Those who are not in the tax field will be deprived. So that's the argument for it. But I think our radio audience is more interested in the question of where they're taking the money from. We do. Where are they headed? How do they work effectively with them? What protection mechanisms? It's no worse when the money's in bad hands. So, if you could, what kind of hands would that be?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u45	In fact, the Fund is managed by the Pension Fund of Ukraine. As Mr. Minister has already said, investment policy mechanisms will be applied, i.e. those funds will not simply be in the accounts of the Pension Fund, they will be invested both in the securities market and in principle. will earn not only income from wages but investment income. Plus, it is very important that the way of protection that the keynote speaker said again is that the money is individual, that is, not generally belonging to retirees, but to each individual pensioner. Because I think the investment component is going to be big.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u46	Mikhailo Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u47	Dear Dmitri Vladimirovich! Millions of people are listening to us now. And people want justice, of course. But we know how they put up a pension. It's people who need to be picked up if people work at different jobs, millions of testimonies say where they've worked and so on and so forth. Well, here's a question. Two more months, our opposition is no longer working. Salaries are paid. And I think my radio audience would probably support: maybe we should think about amending the law to extend their retirement? That would be fair. Or poor simple people collect testimonies, where they've been working for months, and here in the open: they don't work, and they retire as if they're sweating, working in sweats. This is an amendment, and they can be retired, maybe 61 or 60 and a half years old. I think millions of radio listeners would support that. This would be implemented by the principle of social justice: who works receives a pension for the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u48	It's a wish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u49	In fact, this is the second reading procedure. Any national MP as a subject of a legislative initiative may make any amendments, including amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u50	Thank you, Dmitri Volodyrovich. Have a seat. This, Mikhailo Vasilovich, is more of a wish to another committee of profile: the Committee on Pensioners and Veterans. And concerning that which goeth like all, henceforth they shall not go like all. Because the Law on the Status of People’s Deputies states, if this is true, that their applications for the permanent suspension of the powers of national deputies, if that is true, the person who makes up the term of office of the national deputy will not be entitled to a pension or a national deputy. So they won't go like everybody else. Yes, is there a need to discuss a bill? Please sign up. Yeah, six minutes. Please, Redfoot. And Hara. Sign up from the deputies. Please, Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable Deputies, the Red Army, the Socialist Party faction, the Ukrainian Veterans Association of Afghanistan. The introduction of the accumulated system of compulsory state pension insurance is primarily aimed at creating additional sources of income for future pensioners in old age, as well as involving long - term investments in the economy that will have a positive impact on the development of the financial market. So I'll say, from experience, I have a friend in the tourist business, so I'll say that he has most overseas tourists who come to Ukraine, who are overwhelming most, more than 90 percent -- pensioners, older people who have the ability, who have the ability to retire, who have the ability to travel freely around the world, to see how people live, to take an interest in, in fact, a real vacation. And what's interesting is, most of them have a pension that greatly exaggerates the salary they've been getting while they're working. As a result, the contribution to the Pension Fund is known to be 35 percent. So a third of the wage, the salary is paid to the pension fund and to other funds: social insurance is 5.8 percent. The demographic situation in Ukraine is not favorable. The number of pensioners will continue to increase. At the same time, the number of persons providing pensions, as has been said today, will be reduced by the payment of compulsory contributions. Under these circumstances and with the aim of avoiding increased contributions and other unpopular measures to limit the pension fund of Ukraine and to ensure that pensions are paid at a level not lower than 40 percent. We have to ensure that the second level of the pension system is maintained. The introduction of the accrual pension system will allow us to ensure that pensions are exchanged from two levels per year, that pensions are set at almost 50 percent to the average wage, and that for existing pensioners at a higher level than under the same level of the solidarity pension system. The Socialist Party faction is asking for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u52	Thank you. Basil Hara, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u53	Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to draw your attention to what it is that the Janukovic Government is taking a second and very important step to address the issue of our veterans, pensioners. I recall that in 2003, it was precisely the Government of Januković, although many Governments had spoken very much about it before, that they had adopted a very important decision, but if you wish, not a very popular decision to implement the new Pension Insurance Act at that time. A second significant step is being taken today. And this step is consistent in the creation of a common social insurance system in our State. You know, on first reading, we ourselves adopted the Single Social Contribution Act, which will streamline a lot of issues, that there are several health insurance projects already on first reading of the Committees, and we are completing the establishment of a compulsory social insurance system. As far as the current bill is concerned, it is based on the law we passed in 2003, which provides for two, in fact, funding systems. The first is the solidarity that is in force to date, and the second is that today is the creation of a savings system. In my view, this bill will solve at least five very good things for our State. The first is to continue the differentiation of pensions. We have already taken the first step in this regard, but so far many have been insulted, especially by veterans, by the fact that, regardless of wages and employment, the pension does not correspond to the contribution that many retirees have made during their work. Second. Retirement will be increased. And I think we're going to reach 50-60 percent of our salary in time. Most importantly, this stockpiling system will succeed this pension. The pensioner may inherit this pension from his children, grandchildren, and so on. Third. We will finally deal with the budget deficit of the Pension Fund, which has existed for a long time and has had to be largely planned in the State budget. Fourth. In all the normal States to which we aspire, the pool is the strongest source of investment within the country. And we're going to get a good enough incentive to develop our own economy. And the fifth. That's what I've been talking about. I think it's one of the most powerful factors of withdrawal from the shadow of wages. No one will benefit from the salary in the envelope and not have his material future, his well-being in retirement. The Party of the Regions has considered the bill and proposes to be adopted on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u54	Thank you. Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u55	Dear colleagues, our radio listeners, our voters. Of course, the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will support the bill mentioned above. And we generally think that every step to improving the pension system should be supported. Because in the 16th year, the 17th year, we see that, really, there's just an unfair approach to pension policy in our state. And we have a note. The observation was also made by the Scientific and Experimental Department, the Administration, I'm sorry, the Supreme Council. We agree with them, and we believe that together we, our fellow countrymen, must work out this bill so that it can be more perfect for us. Of course, in the view of the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, we must do everything we can to ensure that we are guided in pension policy by the principle of equality, the principle of the contribution of every citizen of Ukraine. This is absolutely necessary. And indeed, of course, the pension should come out of it. We cannot allow what has been in retirement for many years when the equation has played a major role. Those who worked, those who did not work received the same wage. And I remember how, oh, sorry, the pension was compared to the same pension. And I remember the gypsies cheering and cheering on that government because they didn't work for a day, but they got the same pension as those people who worked 50 years in the field, worked on a machine, taught, treated people, and so forth. First of all, we need to keep in mind that each individual’s contribution should, of course, include a pension. We also have to think about these questions, because as much as we say today, we know very well that today's basic wage, especially in the private sector, is going to be a shadow. People give an envelope, in an envelope, a salary. She does not think that the time will come for you to receive a pension and you will remain practically with a meager pension. I think in addition to the adoption of this law, we should also provide for those measures that have really allowed employers to control their wages and the responsibility for wages. We know that this is happening today in the state, whether it's happening, whether it's happening, or what no person is doing because they're paying their wages.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u56	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do this. We've got six more minutes. Please, Chechetov from the place. Concentrate and say the most important thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u57	I'd like a word with the People's Deputy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u58	Antipenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u59	The accumulation of a wave system does not depend to the extent that a solidarity pension system is dependent on the demographic situation. And implementation helps to solve the issue of increasing pensions at the expense of accumulated costs during a person’s working life. In accordance with the Ukrainian Law on “On Stately Compulsory Pension Insurance”, we have to introduce a professional pension system and an appropriate bill registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and together with the government, a round table on this issue, is planned to familiarise ourselves with the experience of other states where compulsory occupational pension insurance has been introduced and the draft legislation has been finalized. The adoption of the bill on the introduction of the accumulation of the war system will enable a comprehensive solution to the issue of the further development of the pension system. And one more important question. Contributions to the accumulation of the social security system are mandatory. In view of this, honourable colleagues are invited to support the bill in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u60	Thank you. Sergei Matvienkov, Sulkovsky, follow him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u61	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! For the pension, the biggest problem that exists today is injustice. And most of all, injustice really offends people. Those who were honest, hardworking, those who did not work were almost put to the test. And so the savings system, it'll sort of solve this problem, but there's a transitional moment that's the sickest. But I would like the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ministry to take into account a number of points. First moment. Specpense. Why someone has to get 90 percent of their salary and someone has to count the number of years they've worked and multiply it by the average wage. Who did this facet in society? What do people share, and how do they differ? That's the first one. Second. There are a number of warnings to the law itself. For example: the demographic system; the financing of the village, what is today; the work abroad; the envelopes that are, the shadow that is being paid; the inflation processes. All of this must be taken into account in the consideration of this law. And third. That's what I was talking about. People retired before 1991. Today we are in the foreground of the 9th of May, very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u62	Thank you. So Sulkovski asked for another minute in Korsakov. Please, two minutes. Behind him is Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u63	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Today, I would really like to thank our coalition for the social policy minister Mikhail Mikolaiovich Papiev, who, while still in the previous government, started initiating this bill. But then, since the oranges had been abandoned, they didn't need this situation for the populists, and that's why it was all stopped. And thanks to God for returning to the post of Minister Papiev, he took this matter seriously again, for which he wanted to personally thank him and his team. First of all, I'd like to say that Ukrainian pensioners today don't believe the populists who lie there so much that they care about improving the lives of the Ukrainian people, especially the pensioners. Pensioners believe that in 2004, Prime Minister Janukovich and his team took the pension seriously. And today, Ukrainian pensioners expect only this government, the government of Viktor Yanukovitch, that only this law, once adopted by Parliament, and we are necessarily calling for it to be accepted again at this session, then the government of Yanukovich is seriously correcting the injustice that pensioners are experiencing today, regardless of who hasn't hit his finger in his life and gets the same pension. And whoever's working in the mine for 40 to 50 years on farms has also been working on the equation. It's a very social injustice. So this law will be passed, I believe it, and I urge all the national MPs that the Yanukovich government will soon implement this bill, this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u64	Thank you, Pavel Gnatovich. But please come and thank the minister personally again. Please, Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u65	One international argument in favour of the adoption of the law. Seven years ago, I was part of a government-deputy and professional group where we studied pension legislation in Chile, where I was a dictator of Pinochet for over 18 years. [[Listen carefully]] So that's where the pension fund budget was 30 percent higher than the state budget, and the pension fund invested the development of the state, the enterprises. Why did this happen? And that's because there was a very clear accumulation system. And when did we get interested and what was the minimum pension for people in Chile who retired? 300 dollars is minimal, and another is dependent on her job. That's why we need to back it up. But I also have some warnings. What's the plan? We're talking about future pensioners now 20, 30 years of age and so on. I support my colleague Matvienkov. We need to get back to our old people's retirement today. Even today, a person retired in the same year, but various pensions. Until 1991, there were no differentiated pensions. Therefore, it is necessary to return to the pension law so that those already retired may receive a normal pension. It's very important.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. I understand that the Pension Fund doesn't deny it. We don't have 30 percent soon, but soon our Pension Fund is also comparing with the State Budget, not far from there. Let's really go to the Ministry, and the Committee on Veterans and Disabled Persons, to really look at the problem that Matvienkov's colleague, Stoyan, Sameilik, and others were talking about us creating new laws, taking care of the next generation of pensioners, that's good, but we didn't forget the generations of pensioners who created us a state. Yes, we will give the new generation good and deserving pensions, and those who have earned them more will be in that condition. I am voting on the basis of the first reading of Bill No. 2854 on the introduction of a mandatory public pension insurance system. Please vote. [[11:40:50]] For 258. The law was passed in the first reading. Section “In summary procedure”. I would like to vote in favour of considering the following bills in a simplified manner. [[11:41:18]] For 255 Decision taken. A draft Law amending the Code of Administrative Offences for the Establishment of Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Declaration of Grains by Maintenance Subjects in the Crop Market is under consideration. Registration number 3053, Deputy Minister of Agricultural Policy Gadzalo Jaroslav Mihajlovich, two minutes, please. Get Gusarov ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u67	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! I would like to report that the introduction of the conservation declaration of grain is one of the mechanisms of the state regulation of the grain market, as provided for in article 10 of the Ukrainian Grain and Grain Market Act. However, the imperfection of existing legislation, in part responsible for the violation of the declaration of grain by its subjects, disorganizes the declaration of the available quantities of grain held by its owners and makes it impossible to enforce effective government regulation of the grain market and reduces the level of food security of the country. Yes, during the last three years there has been a violation in the implementation of the declaration of grain by grain storage subjects approved by the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers of 12.12.2002, number 1877. Individual grain keepers refuse to submit a declaration or submit it with incomplete and unreliable data on the presence of grain in storage. There are other violations in the declaration of grain by its subjects. Therefore, in order to carry out the mandate of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Ukrainian Ministry of Agrarian Policy has developed a draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Administrative Offences on the Establishment of Responsibility for Violations of Grain Laws by Grain Conservation Subjects. The main purpose of the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code of Administrative Offences on the Establishment of Responsibility for Violations of Legislation in the Declaration of Grain Preservation Subjects is the acquisition of the right of authorized government authorities to charge Ukrainian grain resources with the administrative responsibility of violators of existing legislation, particularly those who are engaged in the conservation of grain and are obliged to declare it in due time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u68	Jaroslav Mikhailovich, right. They have a bill on their hands. Say the last sentence. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u69	I'd like to ask the honourable national MPs to adopt this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u70	Thank you. Please, Sergey Mikolayovich Husarov, head of the committee's subcommittee on law enforcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich! People's Honourable Deputies! Given the vital importance of the grain market for the food security of the country, it is important to stress the relevance of Bill No. 3053, drafted by the government, which is proposed for your opinion. The adoption of this law will enable government authorities that collect grains to draw on the administrative responsibility of natural persons, including officials, who avoid the obligation to declare food grain. In this way, additional legal guarantees are being created to provide interested state institutions with full and reliable information on the extent of Ukraine’s grain resources. According to the bill, the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences is supplemented by article 104, bearing the badge 2, on the responsibility of operators involved in the conservation of grain and the obligation to register it at the proper time, and article 200. 44 with badge 2 on appropriate powers of executive authority. The main scientific and expert office considers it possible to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. The individual flaws noted by him can be remedied in preparing for the second reading. After reviewing the bill, the committee also decided to recommend that the Supreme Council accept the bill as a basis for the first reading. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u72	Thank you, Sergei Mikhailovich. Have a seat. Are there people who want to express themselves? Yes, Jaduha does. Please. A famous agrarian. Well, let's give the word to the agrarians. Alexander Mikolaiovich. Nuts, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u73	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, indeed, the bill that we are considering today is very important. Yesterday, as we look at the memories of Russia's first president Boris Yeltsin, when the country was on the verge of virtually starving, we are returning to this question today, what is the food supply of the country, and especially bread and bread and bread and bread? And we would like to have these skeptics that this year, when the government, without knowing the actual volume of grain today, which is declared, part, part, no, which is within our country, has imposed certain prohibitions on the implementation of grain, that is, some quota. Therefore, it is clear that today, if, do not give the Lord, Ukraine will disappear from the shelves of bread or bride, who will be the extreme: farmer Peter Ivanovich or a hard businessman? Of course, the government. That is why I clearly support the bill tabled by the government on this subject, but I would like to point out that today, apart from the bill, these innovations, i.e. administrative responsibility for the objective declaration of grain, we would like agrarians, first of all, and specific volumes of government grain purchases. After all, the structure that's state-owned today doesn't work at all. I would like to see that, using the very budgetary resources of our state, it worked in support of the agricultural sector so that the farmer who is working on grain production today would be able to know clearly not only to declare and hope that someone will buy it someday, but also to make specific purchases and calculations, of course, on their own perspective. In general, I fully support the bill introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u74	Yeah, well. Since it's about buying, even though it's non-invasive, but Pecklesenko had a connection, please, for a minute. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u75	It's a faction of the Regions, Hellhound. The issue under discussion is an important issue in terms of establishing order in this strategic market. And if this law helps to become an instrument of the State, of course, we will support it with two hands. But do you have to understand why there's an exit from the declaration? Most likely, there are several reasons: the first is tax, i.e. minimize tax losses. The second reason is that all possible funds are being created in the regions today. The farmer failed to collect the crops, as he had done since the village council and the district council, bringing the plan to the yard, and everyone was trying to get the grain at a minimum price. This, of course, encourages farmers. Most importantly, I reiterate that this law is an enabling instrument. On the contrary, if you've declared it, if you're from the beginning.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Mikolayovich. Dear colleagues, the discussion is over, and I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences in Establishing Responsibility for Violations of Legislation during the Declaration of Grains by Household Subjects in Action on the Grain Market. Registration number 3053, please vote. [[11:50:29]] For 254 A decision has been made. A draft Law on Amendments to Certain Ukrainian Laws on Promoting Reconstruction and Modernization of Active and Construction of New Petroleum and Petroleum Objects is under consideration. Registration number 2357. It's a government bill. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Fuel and Energy, Jooffe Yuliy Jakovic. Get Melniczuk ready from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u77	Dear National Deputies! Under the memorandum of partnership between the Cabinet of Ministers and companies and companies operating in the internal market for oil and petroleum products, the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to certain Ukrainian Laws on Promoting Reconstruction, Modernization and Construction of New Oil and Petroleum Products has been developed. The bill is designed to stimulate the reconstruction, modernization and construction of new oil and oil-based enterprises in order to increase the competitiveness of the oil and oil industry, to increase the production of oil and petroleum products and, accordingly, to improve the budget, and to improve their quality. There's no secret that the depth of processing in our factories is 55-65 percent, in the developed countries is 80-95. The draft law proposes to amend the Ukrainian Laws on the Single Customs Tariff and on the Value Added Tax, which provide for exemption from payment of duties and exemption from taxation for machinery, machinery, assembly, measurement, control and management of the technology processes of the oil race and auxiliary processes that are imported into the customs territory of Ukraine for the reconstruction, modernization and construction of new oil and oil-chemical industries. It should be noted that in order to reconstruct the oil industry. Three years of transportation and installation of two billion U.S. dollars, 10 million dollars. [[Modernization]] It is also possible to increase oil processing by 14.2 million.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u78	Thank you, Julius Yakovich. The idea of the bill is clear. Thank you. Have a seat, please. Member of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich Valerius Matthew, stop holding a rally there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking on December 5, 2006, and then on March 13 and April 3, 2007, was reviewed by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. At a meeting of the Committee on 3 April 2007 on the availability of a meaningful financial and economic basis and taking into account the positive decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the issue of a fuel-energy complex, nuclear policy and nuclear security on the bill, the members of the committee were supported by the bill and were invited to accept it as a basis. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 23. 11.06 notes that the first reading of the bill can be based on comments and suggestions. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u80	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. Shall we discuss it? It's all clear. The only thing I'm asking is for the department's profile committees, Julia Yakovich, to specify the date of the introduction of the bill. Because he came to us in October of last year. And it said that the law was going into effect on January 1, 2007. Understand? That from January 1st he can no longer enter, and from January 1st 2008, the next one is certain. This is the first reading, but still, as we prepare for the second reading, we take into account the deadline for the introduction of the bill. I am voting for adoption as a basis for the first reading of Bill No. 2357 on amending some of Ukraine’s laws to encourage reconstruction and modernization of active ones and to build new oil and oil - refineries. Please vote. [[11:56:10]] For 252 Decision taken. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement for Priority State Needs is under consideration, registration number 3055. According to the First Deputy Minister of Economy, Ljubchenko Kostin Valerijovich, prepare Tkachenko Alexander Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u81	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! The bill was developed by the Ministry of Economics of Ukraine. Changes will be made to part 5 of Article 2, according to which the functions of coordination of work related to the formation of a government order and the exercise of control over its execution are placed on a specially authorized central executive authority by coordinating the purchase of goods, jobs and services at public expense. It is proposed that part 5 of article 2 should be made available in a new edition, which provides for the establishment of public procurement functions and the coordination of the work related to the formation of public procurement and the supervision of its implementation by the central executive body on economic policy issues. Part 1 of Article 6, according to which reporting is to be carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Act on State Procurement, proposes to improve the order of reporting, inter alia, by establishing that the contracting authorities submit a report to the special-authorised central executive body in the field of statistics on the arrival of the contractors of budgetary allocations and the execution of a public procurement order at the level of funds, to the central executive authority on economic policy issues, on the execution of the procurement in terms of volume. The results of the procurement process are reported in the order laid down in the Ukrainian Law on the Purchase of Goods, Works and Services. The bill was not taken into consideration with regard to the observations taken into account by Minfin, the State Department and the Ministry of Culture and Tourism. According to the expert opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers, there are no comments to the bill. The bill was approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the Committee on Economic Policy, the Committee on Finance and Banking and the Committee on Legal Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u82	Thank you. Have a seat, please. From the Committee on Finance and Banking, Tkachenko Alexander Mikolayovich
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u83	Dear colleagues, the project proposes that Ukraine’s Ministry of Economics be responsible for the formation of government procurement, the coordination and control of government procurement. In addition, the project defines the procedure for submitting information on the execution of a government order. In fact, the bill is a technical bill that clarifies and agrees with certain provisions of the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement to meet the priority public needs with the basic Ukrainian Law on the purchase of goods and jobs and services at the expense of public funds. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its conclusion, recommends the adoption of the draft law as a basis for the first reading. At the same time, the administration stresses the need for some alignments with other legal provisions. At a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Finance and Banking on April 3, this year, the bill was considered and adopted in the first reading by the committee. That's why I'm offering to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u84	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, well, he'll improve what we've been criticized for all our purchases? So there's a certain step of the walls.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u85	I think Adam Ivanovich you're very right to say is a certain step. But all those who have raised the question of how to improve the law on public procurement are for the execution of state funds on government procurement, jobs and services, all the managers are fighting for one to be a supplier, so there is no competition, because the schemes are working. Today, the law that we have adopted gives transparency. And so there went the flow of turns, the pressure on the committee, and so on, and so on, and on our commission. I think we can handle this pressure, but this proposal that's being made, I think it's right, and it's going to give some, as they say, order up on this issue. But I would like, dear friends, to say on the previous question. This was where the grains were made. Today, nearly 80 percent of foreign traders work in the Ukrainian grain market. Ukraine accounts for 20 percent, and foreigners buy bread. Government food was purchased in the last year for 3.2 million, if required by 12. Hence, the law that we have today, and more specifically the amendment to the codex, is a pitiful one. We have to make a fundamental change that only domestic people, just domestic firms, should be traders in the internal market for grain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u86	Thank you. I know, Alexander Mikolayovich, that you have prepared changes to the basic law. Please speed up the committee’s consideration so that we can accept it, for, indeed, many complaints about the law must be answered. Are there speakers? Sign up, two in, two in, one in, one in green, one in red. Please press, press, Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, please. Remember, red and green. Well, Samuel will get the word because he saw that she was pushing, I don't know where, but she was pushing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u87	I can tell you that I pushed twice and still turned out first, right? So that's not clear. I think this law needs to be supported. It's good that the Ministry of Economics will be at the top of this issue, but the trouble is in the same thing -- very few government orders, and in general, they're almost gone. That's the first one. And the second. Adam Ivanovich, you've raised questions about government procurement. This law can no longer be changed if I accept the proposal that I once made here that enterprises engaged in manufacturing should simply be excluded from this law. One reason is thousands of fitters. If you buy them, that's the whole problem, and then it's going to be 100 percent five percent of the questions. And we're going to help manufacturers on these issues. So the law that we're talking about, I think we're now discussing, supporting, and by public procurement, I'd like to see that proposal from the very beginning taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u88	Thank you, Vitaly Ivanovich. Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u89	Indeed, the law must be adopted. Now we're finally going to know who's responsible for this, who's going to be the extreme. So far it has really been very difficult to identify. I want to say that this law, Adam Ivanovich, does not answer your question, does not solve the main question, the problems remain, the problems are everywhere, people just don't know what the ultimate solution is from this terrible burden, and that's why we need to adopt the basic law. This law only determines who answers, who is responsible today. But I want to ask a question to our ministry. Of course, we have today identified the central body of executive authority responsible for this. This, for example, is what I wanted to know: Please tell me, is the frame priority or not? Whether we're still going to be preparing our footage for the long distance and the near side to serve ladies or young girls with higher education, candidate and doctoral dissertation or not. This is also a priority. I've been on the committee for a year. I've been fighting for a year for us to finally relate to the use of the State Budget, the State Budget, the Order and the Employment. Regrettably, all central authorities of the State are strongly opposed to this. That means you're throwing money into the wind on a government order and where they're going. Where do the people we're losing this money go? Unfortunately, no one controls, no one is responsible. As long as this is the case, we will continue to throw money into the wind, and we will continue to know that a doctor will never go to a circuit or a rural hospital. We'll still know that the teacher won't go to a remote village or anything like that. I'm so glad there's you today, and now I'm going to work with you on this problem, but we have to solve it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u90	Thank you. You work in such a way that they decide.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u91	We're working, you're working.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u92	Question completed. Don't push it there, Pavel Gnatovich. Relax. I'm voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Procurement to meet priority public needs. Registration number 3055. Please vote. [[12:07:23]] For 254 Copy that. A draft Act amending the Civil Code of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on property rights, use of land in the transfer of the right to real estate]] Registration number 2796. There is no author. Please, from the committee, Deputy Head of the Legal Policy Committee, Zvarz Igor Teodorovich. There'll be a break.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u93	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on Legal Policy reviewed the draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine, introduced by Ukrainian National Deputy Burjak, registration number 2796 of December 21, the previous year, at its meeting on March 21, 2007, Protocol 24. [[on property rights, use of land in the transfer of the right to real estate]] The bill declares the purpose of eliminating the contradiction between the individual rules of the Ukrainian Civil Code and the Ukrainian Land Code regarding the right to property and the right to use the land in the transfer of ownership to the property on which it is situated. First of all, it should be noted that the issue of the harmonization of article 377 of the Ukrainian Civil Code and article 120 of the Ukrainian Code of Land has already been settled among themselves by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Amendments and Recognition Act, in which article 120 of the Ukrainian Code of Land is set out in a new edition. In our view, we believe that the negotiated version of these articles is more successful than the one proposed by Project No. 2796. However, this law was returned by the President of Ukraine on March 17 this year with proposals for reconsideration. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine does not support Bill 2796. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes that its consideration should be suspended and, in the event of the adoption of President of Ukraine's proposals for a previous law, that the subject of the legislative initiative should be sent for further work. The committee supports this proposal: correct the subject of the legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u94	Thank you, Igor Theodoreovich. Have a seat, please. Would you like to share in the discussion? Do you understand the offer? Both the Professional Committee and the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, and the President of Ukraine say that this bill should be sent to the subject of the legislative initiative. I am voting on this proposal: the drafting of the Civil Code Amendment Act, registration number 2796, to be further developed by the author of the legislative initiative, the subject of the legislative initiative. Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u95	Is the president asking, too?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u96	Yes, yes, Paul Gnatovich. Please, vote. [[12:10:58]] For 249 The bill is aimed at furthering the subject of the legislative initiative. Dear colleagues, we have some projects to put into the agenda and look at, but we're working until 12:00. What suggestions? Tomorrow?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u97	Then let's do this, we'll put them in the agenda, and tomorrow we'll put them first to see.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u98	Do you have a different one? Well, please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, there is a proposal and a request for colleagues, because we will include these additional questions in the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, but since today is the presence of the minister of justice, Mr. Lavrinovich, our colleague, I would ask him not to consider this project for long today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u100	All right, let's do it this way, there's not just a minister here, there are others. And according to the bill, according to the bill proposed by the minister, there's a proposal -- it's not under consideration yet, because the point is this is what we've tried to include it once before. I remind you, Paul Gnatovich, listen, please, this also applies to you. This is about the fact that in the political party law, the Supreme Court is the highest and only judicial institution that deals with the question of the cessation of political party activity today. The Code of Administrative Justice suggests that the issue of banning party activity, and more specifically, is being addressed by the Kyiv District Administrative Court, that is, clearly what this is all about. You and I, when we started looking at this issue, then we gave a commission to a committee of profile, and by the way, our colleagues had already drafted a bill to amend the Political Parties Act and the KAZU that the first institution to consider banning the activities of a political party was not a district court, but a higher administrative court, and a case law would then be the Supreme Court of Ukraine, because if they started to ban the Kyiv District Courts of the Party, you would understand what could happen. So, please, let's postpone consideration of this issue, we'll literally ask a committee of profile, this is the Justice Committee, so that they can look at the initiative of our colleagues this week. Next week, or if they look at it this week, we're going to make changes to the law they're proposing, and then we're going to look at the legislative changes that the Cabinet of Ministers is proposing. Is there no objection? Okay, thanks. Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, but this is the situation. Don't insult political parties. We don't put it in a distant box. Anyway, don't smoke it. Don't smoke. I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda and the consideration of Bill No. 3228, the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Act on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity. Please vote. [[12:14:45]] For 245 Let's look at it in a simplified way. Please, Deputy Head of the State Committee on Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship, Igolkin Sergey Mihajlovich. Prepare Matviyenko. It was just now. From the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u101	The distinguished Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies! The government bill proposes three groups of amendments to legislation in order to bring them into line with the Law on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy. The first principle of change is that it is proposed in the Code of Masters to include a norm by which national regulatory policy is one of the main thrusts of the State's economic policy towards the implementation and balance of the interests of operators and consumers of different types of population. These changes will help to prevent the adoption of economically inappropriate and ineffective regulatory acts, reduce State intervention in the activities of economic operators, and remove obstacles to the development of economic activity. A second norm of this bill is proposed to amend the National Programme for the Promotion of Small Business Directly in the Body of the Act, providing for rules for the implementation of the National Regulatory Policy in part of the preparation of the draft regulatory acts, their publication and the monitoring of performance. Finally, the third group of changes proposed in this bill is proposed to amend the special legislation that regulates the activities of our special regulators, which are not executive bodies, i.e. the Auditorium of Ukraine, the Pension Fund of Ukraine, the Fund for the Guarantee of the Investment of Persons, the Fund for the General Governmental Social Insurance in the event of unemployment, the Fund for Social Insurance with Temporary Loss of Worklessness. And order them to prepare regulatory acts in accordance with the Law on the Principles of State Regulatory Policy. We ask that we support this government bill by adopting it as a basis for taking into account the comments made and suggestions made in preparing it for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u102	Thank you, Sergey Mikhailovich. Have a seat, please. Yeah, from the committee, who's ready? Is that clear? Shall we discuss it? No, it's not. I'd like to take a look at the profile committee. And so I realized that the Committee on Regulatory Policy is familiar with it. There are quite a lot of observations from the Scientific and Scientific Administration, and they are really going to have to be taken into account when preparing the bill for second reading. I am betting on the adoption vote as a basis for the first reading of the draft Law amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts to bring them into line with the Ukrainian Law on the Principles of National Regulatory Policy in the Field of Economic Activity, registration number 3228. Please vote. [[12:18:22]] For 249 A decision has been made. Please vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Committee of Ukraine, registration number 3386. [[concerning the term of office]] Vote. [[12:18:52]] For 238. It's on. We're looking at a reduced procedure. Please be prepared by the chairman of the Antimonopoly Committee, Kostusev Aleksyyyyovich, from the committee of Evtuhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! The draft Act amending the Act on the Anti-Monopoly Committee of Ukraine has been drafted to improve the mechanism for the rotation of members of the Anti-Monopoly Committee. In particular, the bill provides for the deletion from the existing legislation that, in the event of the termination of the power vested in it, new powers of State shall be appointed for a period remaining. For example, a person has not worked for six years, remained for one year and is not reappointed for seven years, and for the remainder of this year, given what the procedure takes, let's say, six months, it is a meaningless norm. And the second rule. It is proposed that the functions of the State Commissioner and the leaders of the Kiev City Territorial Office of the Anti-Monopoly Committee be abolished in one person. For two years, this person has been combining these posts and we have lost both the head of the territorial office and the authorized one. And so that's exactly what practice has shown that it's not appropriate. Thus, the adoption of amendments to these two, although very small in law, would improve the effectiveness of the anti-monopoly committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of 18 April this year, the bill was approved and proposed for adoption as a basis and generally as a law, because it is very small and simple. Therefore, I very much ask you to support the bill and accept it today as a basis and as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u104	Thank you. Sit down, Alexeiyovich. Vasil Ivanovich Evtuhov is head of the Committee on Economic Policy subcommittee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u105	The Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy considered the Cabinet's draft Antimonopoly Committee Act. [[Registration number 3386]] The project is simple, and it proposes to clarify certain aspects of the organization’s activities of the Antimonopoly Committee. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt this law as a basis. The draft decision is given to you, it's two-pointed. Paragraph one is to be taken as a basis. The second point is to entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy with its work on second reading, namely, the introduction of a specific order of appointment and the release of officials of the Antimonopoly Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u106	So, who's right about you, Kostuvev or are you?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u107	If the Supreme Council does. There will be no comment, ready to accept it as a whole. This is from the Supreme Council's point of view. The committee does not deny the adoption of the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-24-m0.u108	Regrettably, the committee did not prepare the draft decree, but there is only a submission that says: Consider, in the first reading, to adopt as a law as a whole. And we don't have a decision. Okay. Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? None. N, respectable colleagues, as they say, are twice two. Do you understand? The point is that when a person is appointed to a position, he is not appointed for seven years as an authorized one but is appointed for the term remaining until the completion of the mandate of the forerunner. Perhaps it is not logical that the predecessor worked there for a month or two, but only for a month. So let's support the proposal, the request and the Antimonopoly Committee are here and the proposals are like that. In general, as a law, the Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Antimonopoly Act on the Ukrainian Committee on terms of office, registration number 3386, should be adopted by the Committee of Profiles, if there is no objection. Please vote. [[12:23:29]] For 252 The law is passed. Thank you. Dear colleagues, the morning meeting of the Supreme Council is closed. We continue to work on committees and factions. Tomorrow we start our work at 10 o'clock. Good luck.
