ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u1	Good day to you all. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, I ask you to register in the session room. [[16:02:25]] There are 284 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Ladies and gentlemen, you and I have decided on the order of today's plenary session, and I would like to inform you of the results that took place yesterday at a meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, namely the adoption of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2008 and the referral of the project to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. After that decision that was made yesterday, you and I reached a general agreement on the next order of the day. First. Today we are considering Decree 1275 – an organizational decree on the features of the 2008 review of the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget. The other one. We have an appropriate submission of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and a presentation of the Ukraine Act on the State Budget 2008. Today this presentation will begin with a statement by the Prime Minister of Ukraine, then the Minister of Finance of Ukraine will speak, then there will be a round of questions and answers, then a five-minute report by the Head of the Committee on Budget Issues, then there will be a next proposal, not five minutes from the factions and 30 minutes from the Ukrainian National Deputies, then a draft decision by the Supreme Council No. 1285/P will be submitted. In view of this, I would ask that we start our work. I'm asking all the MPs to take their seats so they can start the process. Let's go through the procedural order first-- regulation 1275. Today at the Conciliation Council, we all agreed, and I am pleased to re-emphasize the consensus approach, the only thing that gave me the direction of the factions' heads, to change, to accept, as a whole, “no later than 30 December”. Because if it's not later than December 30, it's also the 30th. A 'until December 30'. So the average term is 29th. In view of this, and the unanimous decision of the leaders of the MP factions, I ask you to be very careful, colleagues! – to vote on the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the procedure and specificities of the review and adoption of the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[No. 1275]] Vote please, national deputies. [[16:05:12]] For 337 Yeah, yeah, after the show. Thank you. Dear National MPs, "for" - 337. Decision taken. So I would like to point out that now, no matter what we have, I'm asking the factions to show. Despite the fact that we have a significant deviation, in a mild sense, from the Ukrainian Budget Code, but we have created a certain legitimate canal in order to review and adopt the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2008. Thank you to all the national deputies for this. Colleagues, I'm asking for silence. The word is given to Prime Minister Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrski of Ukraine to present the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget 2008. The next one is Pinzenik Viktor Mikhailovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u2	Good evening! I would now like to present the 2008 draft of Ukraine's 2008 budget, which the new government of Ukraine has been working on for an unprecedented short period of seven days. And in seven days, the government was able to carefully analyse the entire budget system of Ukraine, the expenditure, the income, the budget, the programs that are in use in the budget, and offer you a balanced document that has the following parameters. But first of all, I'd like to draw your attention to some of the problems that we've got in this budget. First of all, since January 1, 2008, some laws have been completed to ensure that the income part of the budget is filled. And we're not going to get with you if we don't accept the new budget, about 18 billion dollars of income that is needed to provide the budget. The other one. We all remember that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine has declared it illegal to suspend any social assistance benefits provided by the Budget Act. And you and I, if we don't accept the budget, there are 70 billion deficits in the budget that don't cover the benefits, the social assistance that is provided by the laws, but they weren't calculated when the draft budget was submitted by the previous government. Moreover, the budget that was formed for us did not take into account the new energy prices that arose from the fact that the Russian Federation had put an entirely new price on gas, which meant that the budget was practically balanced for most of the parameters. In 7 days, it's really a small term, but we conceptually changed some approaches to the formation of the State Budget. And first of all, we looked at how a profitable part was formed in Ukraine with regard to the use of Ukraine's nadrama. I think we've all noticed that, unfortunately, we haven't had a full share of rent payments on top of our budget. We've corrected this situation and the conceptual budget has changed radically. The second thing I wanted to pay attention to. We all don't always count certain incomes to local budgets. And that means that local budgets are almost in chronic deficits. This State Budget Act provides for all transparent procedures for dealing with land of non-agriculture and municipal property. These are procedures that prevent auction procedures from being avoided for sale, land rental, sale, or rental of utility property. This tells us that tens of billions of dollars that have not been made into local budgets will now come in. And the local budget will have a very substantial filling. I think we can stop corruption with land and municipal property almost entirely. The next difference is in this budget. And I think it's going to be really interesting for the people's deputies to hear that. Dear friends, this budget no longer includes benefits to MPs, officials, and all that has to do with certain preferences for deputies and officials. I think we'll all agree to that, because it's hundreds of millions of dollars. And I think the time has come without these things to give the budget. Here's the next offer. The thing is, this budget is the first one that doesn't stop any social law. This is the first budget that absolutely does not devalue those social laws that have been passed in Parliament and then are not funded by the budget. And we've proposed a completely different approach: to take into account all the benefits, all the legal provisions, but to make sure that the benefits, the grants, any other social payments are not paid to the wealthy. And that's why we've introduced a scale of income for the family and for the person who can pay the benefits that are provided for in the laws. And there's something else I'd like to pay conceptual attention to. This is a question of taxation of agricultural production. The budget offered by our predecessors was to cancel the tax system for agricultural enterprises and to tax the added value. Of course, neither agricultural enterprises nor peasants are prepared for such shock therapy. And that's why we removed this rule from the budget and conceptually left the tax legislation that works in the village today, and further for the agricultural complex, we'll consult agrarian enterprises, we'll make sure that we don't have shock taxes for agrarian enterprises. I would also like to stop your attention because you and I have an NAK “Naftogaz” enterprise that is practically at the verge of technical bankruptcy, a technical default. This budget has balanced the entire financial system of NAC Naftogazu, given the necessary guarantees to creditors, provided financial support, and we will have NAC Naftogaz with you, protected from any financial, technical default risks. And now I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the budget of Ukraine, which has been presented by our predecessors on certain macroeconomic indicators of social development, unfortunately today does not exactly correspond to the opportunities that we could offer the country. I would like us to look at the main macroeconomic indicators and social development indicators for the next year of 2008. Dear friends, these are the indicators you can see in front of you, and I can only say that if we had at least a month to complete the budget, we would have to work carefully and recalculate all macroeconomic indicators. What is proposed is not very appropriate, but the previous government has calculated it long enough, and today the situation has changed. And that's why we're proposing, given that seven days don't allow us to count new macroeconomic indicators, they don't allow us to count all inter-budget relations. We propose leaving these macro-indicators as they are, to accept the budget as we propose and consult with you, but then, after New Year's Eve, start practically preparing for substantial changes and additions to the current budget and together with you to form both fiscal policies and incomes and expenditures that will be based on new macroeconomic indicators. And given the time deficit, we're practically offering to accept the budget in two stages: now in a minimum agreed version -- in a few days and a second option -- it's when we're two months fully able to prepare a project of changes and additions with you and somewhere at the end of February, or maybe early in March, how we're going to get there, adopt a budget, conceptually distinct, where the income will be formed on new macroeconomic indicators and with the complete elimination of all shadow circuits, firstly, in the tax system, and secondly, in the customs system, because today, unfortunately, there are colossal negatives. And now the main parameters of the budget. We propose that the revenue of the budget is 294 billion. Two hundred million. Income: 274, 200, budget expenditure: 294, 200. And I can say that the revenue of the budget is projected at 76.3 billion in 2008. More or 38.6 percent than in 2007. Similarly to deficits, we have an increase of 75 billion. 200 million, or 34 percent. This is a substantial addition to the revenue line compared to last year, which allows us to form a sufficiently strong government policy. The government budget’s revenue is increasing by 37 percent and will amount to 215 billion 300 million. The state budget spending is going to increase by 43 percent and we're going to have an spending portion of the state budget of 186 billion 900 million. I want to say right now that this budget that we're proposing has a much larger investment component than the previous year's budget. I could say two digits. In the previous year, the investment component was 43 billion, and now we have an investment budget in practice, because we're increasing investment costs by 10 billion 700 million. And that means that all the social payments, all the opportunities to help people today are based on investment policy, on a policy of constant and sufficiently dynamic economic development, and all the sectors of virtually our management are getting much higher costs that support the industry and will allow it to develop. What I'm saying right now is that one of the priorities of our budget is the expenditure on culture and art. You know, there's almost no budget for this kind of priority, and I'm very pleased to tell you that we're almost doubling the budget for culture and art. We double the cost of supporting books that support the development of Ukrainian. [[Congrats]] We are very much in favour of expenses that relate to virtually all spheres of culture and art, and I think that this is the kind of budget that can make a pretty deep breakthrough in how a conceptual state perceives the sphere of humanitarian development. The next is -- and this is also the priority -- is the state budget spending on science and science and technology. You remember that when we talked about the Ukrainian Breakdown program, it's based on the knowledge economy, it's based on the fact that we're finally going back to the face of science and science and technology. And I'm very pleased to report that in this budget the expenditure on this area is increased by one billion dollars. This is a huge cost, and they're going to allow us to change our policy in this direction in a radical way. And it's because we have a budget with you now, and the expectation of constant economic development, that we can say that the social costs of cleaning up all the inefficient areas of funding in this budget can be increased. And I want you to look at this right now: 57 percent we're increasing social costs. That's 16 and a half billion dollars extra. This is a calculated and balanced budget. He has absolutely no risk, both in terms of income and expenditure, and in relation to any halt to the strong economic development of the state. What are the main parameters? It's a minimum of living. In different categories we have an increase in living minimum from 17.6 percent to 21 percent. The minimum wage, which was an average of 430 dollars in 2007, is now planned for the average of 547 dollars a year. And this is going to increase by almost 27 and a half percent. So we're essentially increasing all the pension parameters that I'm going to talk about. As far as pensions are concerned. The first thing I'd like to say is that we've taken into account the increase in the rate of one year of insurance from one percent to 1.35. That means that we're already doing some of the retirement work, and we're going to pay people, definitely, depending on their internships, and what kind of money they got as average earnings as average earnings. We're going to be working with you quite a lot this year on pension reform. And we set out to have, by the end of 2008, the only pension code that we're going to propose to you and that organically combines a solid pension system and a personalized system that will allow us to move in principle into a new option for the formation of pension insurance. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, in this budget, we are putting in place a single tariff network for the work of budget workers, which will allow for an average wage increase of 50 percent for high-skilled budget workers. For example, a second-graduate doctor will have a 45 percent higher salary. A higher-class teacher, 45 percent, a first-class social worker, 44 percent, and a leading librarian, 65 percent. In fact, we can pay qualified workers a lot more. I would also like to say that, over the course of the year, we will be able to raise wages for all workers in the higher category, and by December 2008, we will have, for example, an average salary of 1,283 bracelets for the teacher of the upper category, and an average of 1,373 bracelets for the doctor of the higher qualification. Then I'd like to take some initiatives that, I think, you'll be interested in increasing child support for many-child families and setting it up to 50 percent of the income-based subsistence minimum. This is a serious breakthrough in this direction. The increase in special merit pensions for many mothers who have given birth and raised five or more children increases by 1.8 times. For the first time, we will grant pension rights to parents who are raising families. With regard to minimum wage, there will be a marked increase of 31.5 percent in 2008. I would also like to return to our entire democratic team that everything that was in our election becomes now our programme of action and fiscal policy. Since January 1, 2008, we have been implementing the first child's assistance to the family of 12,000 240 dollars, to the second child of 25,000 dollars, to the third and subsequent children of 50,000 dollars. [[Applause]] And there's going to be a model that won't allow parents who don't take care of raising children very much to abuse that money. Money will purposefully be given to a child. Now I would also like to inform you that Ukraine’s pension fund has increased by 9.9 billion, that is, almost 40 percent. This suggests that pension insurance will not only be differentiated and will be accepted in part, but will also be seriously increased in pensions. But in addition to increasing pensions by age and experience, you and I will for the first time in the history of our own parliament, implement the law that has been popularized by all the political forces in electoral, many electoral companies, and I want to remind you of the Children of War Act. You remember this law, I think. That at each meeting people asked where the law was and where the finances were. So the question is, even in seven days, we've been able to find the resources to pay the children of war to retirement, just like the participants of the war. And that's a whole new direction and a breakthrough in that. [[Applause]] We'll have the following numbers with you. If in 2007, the government planned, the predecessor of our government, to implement the Children of War Act, 445.6 million dollars. For 2008, we're offering 3 billion 600 million dollars. The difference is quite obvious to you. On the average, a child of war will receive a 50 - dollar pension plus an increase in his pension. This will be very helpful to people. The amount of scholarships for orphans, children deprived of parental care, who are in full state custody, will increase from three to four and a half times as to where these children are raised or educated. And now another program that we took with you, our democratic teams, before the elections, is to significantly increase scholarships for students. And I'm going to tell you right now that we did this, and by 2008, a scholarship at the 1st and 2nd levels of accreditation from 133 bracelets that are today, from 1st January, will be increased to 200 dollars, and from 1st September this scholarship will be 400 dollars. You can see that in a year, more than twice as many scholarships go to students. For higher education institutions of the 3rd and 4th levels of accreditation, a scholarship for students who now make up 159.6 dollars will be 530 dollars by the end of the year. And that means that we're going to have students as self-sufficient people planning a certain budget. I would also like to draw your attention to the significant increase in health care costs of 36.6. This means that before we reform and receive full insurance, our health system will be much more heavily funded. What programs do we see? In order to implement measures of State support for the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular and vascular diseases, and we have the most of these diseases, we increase the cost by 1.8 times. To ensure the safety of donor blood, 3.8 times. The centralized treatment for hemophiliacs is 1.6 times. Oncology is 38 percent. The purchase of equipment is 17 percent. To prevent and treat HIV, AIDS is plus 25 percent and so on. We have a host of programs that we will carry out that will enable us to properly form expenses and provide all the financial resources of the health care system. Dear friends! I also wanted to draw your attention separately to the program that became debated in the country during the elections, which is the savings return program. I want to focus on you right now that virtually every budget in the previous years has allocated a waste of money that would have been given to people, but the savings didn't come back. This year we are making a simple revolution with you in this area in a good sense. You and I have planned in this budget an increase in all sources of savings back to 750 million, which the previous government has planned for 2008 to 20 billion dollars. [[Applause]] I'd like you to look at the diagram that the sources of the filling, the return of the savings we'll have with you. First of all, direct expenditure from the money budget is 6 billion dollars, which will allow for the average return of every person we owe to thousands of dollars. So if you put in a thousand dollars, you're practically going to have the whole sum back, for people who have a thousand and more dollars on books, you're going to have a thousand dollars back. In addition, we've optimized all the debts of previous periods and 2 billion dollars will be reimbursed for devalued savings at the expense of practically paying people's debts for the housing and utility services of previous periods. The 12 billion dollars that you see, that's what we're going to be returning to people through special supplies of goods, services that they can pay for their investments, and the money supply is going to be 76 articles of the budget. It's that all the over-planned privatisation revenues will be planned for the recovery of savings. Believe me, privatization is not just fair and transparent, but you will finally see how much the country lost in the previous years when it privatized 175 thousand public property and received nothing in the budget. All that's going to be privatized, you're going to see a transparent model that will fill the budget and enable you to build serious programs in the country. As for the local budgets, I'll give you a few digits that you'll be interested in. First, we increase and seriously increase transfers from the state budget to the local level. This increase will take place in about 30 percent of the area. But I want to say again that I know that there's not enough money in the local budgets, and we're going to spend the two months that we're going to spend improving the budget after the new year, we're going to fill up the local budgets, we're going to give a whole new policy of creating inter-budget relations, and we're going to demonstrate that local self-government in Ukraine is still worth something, and it's not going to be the ultimate principle. I think, dear friends, that the budget before you will also be a pleasant surprise to you. Yes, by the way, the State budget allocations to local budgets will increase by 54.8 percent in 2008 as compared to 2007. This is also true of the government’s attention today, even in seven days of inter-budget relations. And now for defense and state security. You also remember some of the promises made by our team, including the transition to good military financing, to a contractual transition. And I can say that this year, the costs of defense and state security are increased by 25 percent, and if in bracelets, by 5 billion 135 million dollars. This means that the army is getting a substantial increase in the average monthly financial security for the military, and we're going to get these numbers with you. For example, the increase in the minimum wage for military service and exchange rate staff will look like three times for military service, three times for military teaching staff. The state support for the increase in the average monthly financial security will be as follows: the military service under contract in the State Border Service and the junior primary warehouse in the UK MNS will increase to an average of 360 dollars. The flags in the State border service and the MNF will rise by about 450-500 dollars. The average primary component in internal affairs is expected to rise by 21 to 30 percent compared to the current year. Ukraine’s younger military officers will, in principle, pay a substantially higher salary. State support for education is 36.3 percent. The government's media budget expenditure is 11 percent. For physical culture and sports, compared to the previous year, 49.7 percent more. And what's important, and this is one of the strategic directions of our policy, is housing and utilities and its reform. Please note, this number will be interesting to you. We're increasing housing expenditure by 3.3 times and it's actually an extremely large sum of 3 billion 690 million dollars. I know it's going to be aimed at reforming the system, and subsidies that apply to electricity, and subsidies for energy conservation, and for the state-wide housing and utility programme. Dear friends! The last number I'd like to call you is our roads. You know that we are moving towards creating conditions for the Euro-2012 and the roads will play not the last role. We're going to increase spending 1.6 times and we're going to have instead of 7.2 billion 11.4 billion car expenses. In completing my speech, I would like to briefly tell you that if in seven days we were able to make such a substantial and thorough budget adjustment, we were able to set priorities and give the country the hope of finally canceling all of the shadowy economic and budgetary rounds, in two months we will be able to complete and refine the state's financial policies and the state budget in a more substantial way with you. I want to ask all of you to join us, given that the adoption of Ukraine's budget will give us the opportunity from January 1st practically after the holidays to give people a sense of feeling and a new policy and completely new support for them, I would like for the first time in Ukraine's budget to demonstrate the unity of political forces to help and support people, to help and support every sector of our country's economy. I believe that political differences on such issues will remain separate, we will have little time with you to work on the budget, but if the government could offer a conceptually new budget for seven days, I am convinced that in a few days you will also be able to correct this budget in such a way as to be able to vote in favour of both the opposition and the majority. I thank you for your attention and I think you can now ask the Minister of Finance all the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u3	Thank you. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, we are continuing the presentation of the Ukrainian National Budget 2008 Project. I propose to give 10 minutes to Ukraine's Finance Minister, Pinzenik Viktor Mikhajlovich, and then 15 minutes to ask questions and answers, as proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Questions. If you'd like to continue. Let me tell you again, the 9 form we haven't given is 15 minutes, if we agree, we'll be longer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u4	Dear Arsenia Petrovich! Dear Julia Volodymyrna! Dear National Deputies! Most of the questions, the fundamental issues relating to the budget are set out in the Prime Minister's report and I will try to focus on some points related to the balance sheet and the financial part of the budget. The first thing I'd like to say is the extraordinary complexity of the budgetary situation this year. It is primarily related to the end of the year and to the conditions that you know, but I would like to emphasize them, the non-acceptance of the budget means the entry into force of a standard whereby the financing of expenditure is made in the size of 1/12 of expenditure last year. Why I want to stress that. From the new year, it was envisaged to raise the minimum wage and minimum pensions by 55 dollars. It's a very important thing for a country that's past. This year has experienced quite a high level of inflation, and our citizens have the right to receive this supplement. Sadly, however, the lack of budget adoption does not even allow the existing level of payment to be paid. The fact is that 1/12 of the expenditure does not take into account that at the end of this year, wages are higher than at the beginning of this year. Another situation is the possibility of threatening pension payments from the pension fund. The fact is that the rest of the pension fund is not enough to pay off the pension. The budget has always lent loans to the pension fund in order to pay off pensions at the proper time. Such a right the government has only in the case of an approved law on the state budget of Ukraine. But there is another extraordinary situation that may be far more complex than the first. The fact is that the real imbalance of the budget or deficit is much higher than that foreseen in the draft law. As a result of this imbalance. First of all, from January 1st of next year, the collection of many taxes ceases. These are taxes, such as oil and gas rents, the price of the use of naphtha. These incomes are taken into account as incomes of the budget. Actually, they won't be here. Loss of budget income is worth 12 billion dollars on this part. Six billion dollars won't get the pension fund. Because the law shuts down on January 1. Unfortunately, when the draft budget was prepared by the previous government, the problem was not addressed and the bill was not submitted to Parliament. The second major problem is that there is no response to the Constitutional Court's decision on social legislation. And the price of that question is 70 billion dollars. Regrettably, the second time I wish to express my regret that no draft law on the settlement of this problem has been submitted to Parliament. In other words, the country is entering the new year with a deficit of 105 billion dollars. 88 billion are tax and social legislation, and 16 is the deficit previously placed in the draft budget, which is 12 percent of GDP. I think even non-experts understand how serious this problem is. With this imbalance, the country cannot live. We had to respond to this problem, and we settled it in a draft law. And we come up with a budget deficit of 2.1 percent of GDP, and the general fund is even slightly less than two percent. This is the level with which the country can enter the new year peacefully. This is why the fact that the problem cannot be settled solely by the law on the budget, we must at the same time cover the own problem of the budget, the problem of tax legislation that is halting, and the problems of social legislation. I'm going to make some comments on some of the social policy stuff. The draft budget provides for two tools to raise wages: both minimum wage and full-time introduction of a single tariff network in the budget area. As far as pensions are concerned, not only is the minimum pension rate raised, but a very important step is being taken to restore pension justice. This may be the first step, and the next step will have to be taken. If the minimum pension rises by 20 percent, the average pension rises by 43. On what account? First of all, the Budget Act provides for a change in the employment rate of up to 1.35 percent instead of 1 percent. Second, there is a change in the basic salary that is taken into account for the pension or the renewal of the salary. Perhaps many deputies remember that the pension was paid in 2002 — 306 dollars. There's a new base coming up. Today’s order leads to an absolute majority of pensioners receiving a pension, a work pension, below the minimum. Thus, the absolute majority of pensioners were compensated for pension benefits. The introduction of the pension adjustment and recalculation framework allows for the restoration of pension justice. Finally, the employment pension in many categories of pensioners will exceed the minimum pension. We had to respond to the budget and answer the question of the new price of gas because the budget was going to come out of the price of gas -- $160, it's going to be 20 dollars higher. The government has increased from a new level of gas prices, prices for the economy and for the budget. The prices for heat and the population remained constant. In this regard, we have included in the budget an additional amount of compensation for all levels of gas — 330 million dollars. Due to the increase in gas prices purchased for imports, there is an imbalance for NAC “Naftogaz Ukraine” because the prices for heat utility have remained unchanged. In this context, the total amount of grants to be sent to Naftogaza Ukraine, is 2.8 billion dollars, including 2 billion dollars of the general budget and one and a half billion dollars of clearing accounts, which, in addition to regulating the problems of Naftogazu Ukraine, will allow us to answer the question of the difference in gas prices for the population. As far as tax laws are concerned. In most cases, the rules that were in force in the law continue, and some payment rates are based on inflation. Regarding changes to social legislation, they apply to two blocks. First of all, the special law introduces tax rates. And second of all, they're talking. The questions and challenges that have arisen are answered. We settled the issue of children of war, we settled the question of payments in the sphere budget on the basis of a single tariff grid, and we answered the question of benefits. We have not touched any benefits, but the benefits are given their direct assignment. The benefits are to be used by low-security citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u5	Dear National Deputies! Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich. Dear and dear coalition, I'd like you to take a seat. Because I'm looking at the left side of the hall sitting and listening, and the right part of us is not listening to the reporter, the finance minister of Ukraine. Colleagues, there are now 15 minutes of answers to questions. I'm asking you to sign up for questions. Papiev Mikhailo Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u6	Thank you. Dear Victor Mikhailovich, you know that if you talk about the truth, you have to say that all the social parameters that are in your budget today are the parameters: both the subsistence minimum, and the minimum wage that was offered by the government of Viktor Yanukovich. So I want to remind you that the cost of living was at the May price, and given the projected inflation rate of 7.5 percent in 2007. You know that inflation is now 14.2 percent. That is, only by deliberately underestimating the minimum of living in your budget do the working citizens of Ukraine not get between 70 and 350 dollars, children do not get enough, because the actual size of the living minimum is now higher than the one you put in the budget next year. And one more thing. The decision of the Constitutional Court since June last year has not been implemented at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u7	Thank you for asking. First of all, we didn't touch the budget that your government was preparing, any normal things, especially in the social sphere. It's different. I wouldn't want us to have a discussion about who ran the country during the period of high inflation that unfortunately the country received. Third. For us, the standard is the ratio of wage growth, pensions, especially minimum standards, and inflation. Remember last year's discussion when we raised questions, and we will always make sure that the wage plan increases, the pension is higher than the price increase. Estimates include price increases of 9.6 per cent, pension increases of 20 per cent, wage increases of 32 per cent, and averages of 43 per cent, respectively. So we're giving an answer for each person to feel an increase in growth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u8	Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, Party of Regions
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u9	Thank you. Mr. Minister, when I read, I was acquainted with the agricultural development expenditure, and I was pleased that you had saved 99 percent of all the programs that the previous government had set up, the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. And I was happy to do so, especially when I had a billion dollars to provide housing for budget workers — a teacher, a doctor, and so on, but when I read where the sources of funding were from, it turns out that 2.5 billion are going to be taken from the sale of agricultural land in rural lands, and then 100 million are planning to contribute to financing conservation and fertility measures. Is this really so or is this what it's made of? What did they find behind the bench — peasant money and then salami on their lips? Please give an answer to Ukraine's agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u10	First of all, our government doesn't make this standard. I mean, I'm sorry, it's a rule of law that's been preparing for us. And I'm ready to show you that the bill was passed in November of this year. In view of some of the discussions that are taking place on this issue, we will change the link between this source of land financing for a non - agricultural assignment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u11	Grigorovich Lilia Stepanovna, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u12	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, no doubt I want to support the proposed reduced procedure and the revision of the February Budget Act, because in seven days the government has done indeed impossible. And in view of that, I'd like to push away from the words of one of the speakers who says, "So you put all that stuff in the budget that we've been offering." But there are big risks -- inflation. Unfortunately, during the presentation of the last Prime Minister of the previous government, I didn't hear a report on inflation, about the 2008 macro indicators of the budget, so I'd like to ask you how you plan to avoid these risks. That's the first one. Do you not think that voting for the entire parliament would be a tribute to avoiding these risks that we have inherited. And finally, essentially, about health care. Nevertheless, I would like to take another look at these energy and inflation risks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not finished; this was Michael Papiev's question. We're going to look at macroeconomic indicators. At this point in time, we couldn't do that, because looking at the indicators requires a review of all inter-budget relations. It's a pity. A job that can't be done in a week. We're gonna have to take a look. But I would like to emphasize that our goal is not to look at inflation in the direction of increases, our goal is to see inflation that will never again be measured by a two-digit number. There is the Prime Minister's mandate, there is the President's mandate, and we are working with the National Bank of Ukraine to keep the country under low inflation conditions. And if we're going to go to these figures in February, obviously by the inflation rate, we have to get to a much better position than we had. We don't. It is not acceptable to live in inflation conditions that exceed 10 percent.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u14	Kulczynski Mikola Georgievich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u15	Dear Victor Mikhailovich, the draft budget proposes unprecedented increases in pensions and other social benefits, and I would like to believe that tomorrow we will vote on it in general. A. as responsible to Ukrainian society. But I'm concerned about one rule about the disability benefits of the first group of wars. It seems that this category of war invalids is entitled to these benefits if they have income per person less than 1,400 dollars. I think we should raise that figure because they've got pensions somewhere like that. And it's not big money, especially for big cities. I'm asking you to give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u16	We're willing to compromise here. But the main thing is that we haven't touched any of the benefits. But we must finally come to that, to a perfectly normal situation. Until now, we have the right to benefit from people who are rich who do not need it. As for the category of people you've talked about, we can also find a compromise here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u17	Kaletnik Igor Grigorovich, Communist Party of Ukraine
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u18	Please pass it on to Alexandrovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u19	Alexandrovsky, please, a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u20	Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Viktor Mihajlovich, of course, I would like to ask Julia Vladimirovne Timoshenko, who reported to you. But since she's not here, I'm asking you a question. In her report right here in the hall, she said that up to 20 billion bracelets were to be sent to the deposits. However, we already know that 12 billion are the funds that you might want to receive from over-planned privatization, that is, if you privatize more than what is budgeted. This is, first of all, the wrong position, because all the money in the budget has to be counted and accounted for. And if you're going to give people 20 billion dollars, put them in the budget. You didn't include them in the budget, and from the rostrum, you're completely irresponsiblely misleading people that 20 billion of you are planning to pay off your deposits. Tell people the truth, that it is not 20, but only six, and it is a big question. Inflation will depreciate everything. And you don't index deposits, and say you refused to index deposits.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u21	Dear Alla Alexandrovna, first of all, you found the right figure in the General Fund budget -- six billion dollars. That's 10 times more than you were offered by your coalition a year ago. [[Applause]] Secondly, the figure of 12 billion is completely real. I remind you that this same government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Yulia Volodymirirovna Timoshenko in 2005, is only because one object of privatization has been sold honestly, we have received three times the amount provided for in the State Budget Act. In a deficit of 8.6 billion dollars, 24 billion dollars were received. The position of the Prime Minister and the position of the President of Ukraine with regard to the privatization of objects, we will not hold any more competitions. Only open auctions will be held — honest, transparent and open privatization.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u22	Batechev Tetjana Dmitrovna gives the word of Yatsubi Volodymyr Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u23	Dear Viktor Mihajlovich, we have been talking for many years about the need to finance at least 5 per cent of GDP in order for the health sector to exist. In 2007, that was almost 4 per cent, today we have 3-4. How can we survive our health care? With the inventory carried out in 2007, it confirmed that today the need for equipment is 7 billion dollars what it takes to survey the sick, to treat them, it is necessary in the operating room. You're giving 230 million to centrally purchase equipment, while in 2007 we had almost three times as much. How can we treat the sick today, how can we study how to do prevention? And Minhvod warns: don't hurt or go to the hospital.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u24	We understand, Auntie Dmitrovna, the problems that exist in medicine, and you will find a lot of articles that relate to the support of medicine. And in the process of redesigning the budget, we've made some adjustments. But I would like to draw attention to the article you were referring to. Indeed, there was a dead norm in the budget, no. The norm that arose, many questions, allow the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to purchase equipment under financial lysis conditions. It's a 7 billion written down, it's a dead article. It means absolutely nothing. Why? Because you won't find any in the apps. We did not find a list of equipment, order, or procedure to be followed. We're going to respond to the problems of buying, and I think we're going to do it in February when we look at it. But these numbers will be set at a string in the budget expenditure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u25	Jódzik Jaroslav Ivanovich, "Our Ukraine is the People's Self-Defense".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u26	Dear Victor Mikhailovich! The Ukrainian People’s Party, which has always sought an exclusive competitive distribution of land, is grateful to the government for setting up questions and amending the Earth Code on the solely auctioned distribution of land. However, the proposed formulations do not fully answer the questions so as not to allow in the last days of this year the complete waste of the rest of the earth that remains. We have experience of thousands of acres of land being distributed in Kiev after the election of one day. That's the first question. And the second question. The proposed budget changes are proposed to increase excise duty on beer. I want to point out that today we are witnessing a situation where the raw materials on these beer factories have increased by 2 to 2.5 times. Don't you think we're going to make that change?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u27	Thank you for asking. I'm glad you got to know the budget and noticed a very important standard. We have a huge resource that could go to support local budgets, and unfortunately today, it's in the pockets of individuals, including the distribution of land. Especially in Kiev, district centers and so on. Therefore, the draft amendments to the law that you have been given for consideration provide for the sale of land for non-agricultural purposes to be effected solely through the auction system. It's a resource that can give tens of billions of dollars to solve the problems of ordinary citizens and to solve budgetary problems: to repair roads, to rebuild houses and things like that. As for the change in excise duties, the change in beer, for example, is 0, sorry, 2 kips per liter. It's a small adjustment that's less inflation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u28	Silent Pavel Mihajlovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u29	Thank you. I ask you to give the floor to the Head of the Yavorowski Committee on Culture and Spirituality.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u30	Yavorowski’s word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, even a modest figure that has been allocated to Ukrainian culture, we believe that just before the committee meeting is over, that even if wisely and economically, in economic terms, this money can be redistributed and broken down by all the shadow schemes that existed before it in the Ministry of Culture, even if these costs are enough. I'm giving you a specific episode. All educational institutions of the Ministry of Culture, all conservatives, have 178 million institutions, and a single line, 102 million have been allocated to the institute of culture, including hairdressers. Is that fair or not fair? Please tell me. And why did you leave that number? We asked to take this money and redistribute it among other institutions. I really want to be honest with you, and I want us to break this stereotype at last.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u32	Dear Volodymyr Alexanderovich. If you pay attention, we understand the cultural problems and perhaps the biggest increase in expenditure in this particular budget sector. We understand that this is not enough, that this sector needs attention. During our budget work, we have responded to some programs, such as the Ukrainian Language Program, the Ukrainian Book Program, and increased expenses for these purposes. We will continue to take action and be ready even when reviewing the budget in February, where there are painful problems and where we find financial resources, to respond to the problem of Ukrainian culture.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u33	Thank you, Victor Mikhailovich, thank you. The time for answers and questions is up. Dear Ukrainian National Deputies, before giving the floor to the head of the Supreme Council Committee on Budget Issues, I would like to inform you of the tragic news that took place an hour ago, the killed leader of the Pakistani opposition Benazur Bhuto immediately after the rally. So allow me to express my sympathy to the Benazor Bhuto family, the Pakistani people, and the entire world community. I think we need a minute of silence. Thank you. Dear colleagues! I invite you, five minutes, to the words of Derek Mikola Ivanovich. Please, Mikola Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u34	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Dear National Deputies! In view of the Government's presentation of the 2008 Draft Law on the State Budget of Ukraine today, the Committee on Budget Issues, pursuant to article 39 of the Budget Code, heard the Minister of Finance's report on the draft bill this morning at its meeting. At the beginning of the Committee's meeting, none of the members of the Committee could fully consult the bill. Therefore, even conducting a preliminary study of the bill’s rules and their conformity with the Constitution and the Code of Budgets was an extremely difficult matter. However, the review of the draft budget for the following year gives reason for the following. The first is about the format of the document and the material. The bill in question does not fully meet the requirements of article 38 of the Budget Code for the submission of a complete package of material to it. The other one. The bill, at the same time as the State budget, proposes to amend other legislative acts, particularly tax and social matters. Understanding the government’s arguments regarding the need to ensure balance in the budgetary indicators will draw attention to certain contradictions. The inadequacy of article 7 of the Ukrainian Act on the System of Taxation, which defines that the change in tax rates and the mechanism for the administration of compulsory payments cannot be introduced by the Act on the State Budget of Ukraine, i.e. the consideration of changes to tax legislation is required by a separate bill. Infringement of article 148 of the Supreme Council Rules, i.e. that the draft State Budget Act cannot contain provisions to suspend or amend other laws. Third. In accordance with the requirements of article 8 of the Ukrainian Act on State Forecasting and Development of Ukraine's Economic and Social Development Programmes, together with the draft State Budget to the Supreme Council, the State Economic and Social Development Programme should be submitted for the following year. The absence of such a programme today is another argument, as it is not possible to assess the impact of the budget on the development of Ukraine's economy and the implementation of state policy in various fields. Four. There is another warning regarding the reduced procedure. Article 104, paragraph 2, and Article 108, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council Rules do not allow for the shortening of the terms of consideration and discussion under the reduced procedure of the bills, the number of articles, of which more than a hundred are allowed. The bill contains 82 articles on the direct State budget and amendments to 102 legislative acts. Dear National Deputies! Each of us, as responsible to the electorate, is in pain for the fate of Ukraine and realizes that it is not desirable to start a new year without a budget. Its absence will not allow the full amount of the minimum wage, subsistence minimum, minimum pension, scholarships and other social guarantees declared by all political forces, and to attract investment into the country. It should be noted that two proposals were put forward in discussing the draft decision of the committee in question. The first, which corresponds to the procedure laid down in article 39 of the Budget Code, is to adopt the prescribed bill before consideration. The second proposed by members of the committee, representatives of the coalition, was to adopt the prescribed bill at the same time before consideration and in the first reading. As a result of the vote, the Committee on Budget Affairs approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council the adoption of the Draft Law on State Budget 2008, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers for Registration No. 1285 before and in the first reading. Instruct the heads of the MPs to generalize the proposal of the national MPs, members of the respective MPs to the bill and submit the budget committee. To entrust the Committee on Budget Affairs, with the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers, with the task of developing a draft bill that takes into account the proposals made by the MPs. A draft decision is added. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u35	Thank you, Milo Ivanovich. Dear colleagues! We have a decision to make without questions or answers. You all have a committee decision and a draft decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with registration number 1285/P. Colleagues! Our next discussion is the faction of the factions and the performances of the Ukrainian national deputies. So I'm asking for statements from factions not five, but seven minutes. Because there were requests for several factions to express their full position on the draft State Budget Act, to register seven minutes from each faction for the performance. After that, there will be speeches by Ukrainian national deputies. Please hold the recording. From the rostrum? Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, Ukrainian Party of Regions It's a faction performance. Azarov or who? Ephraim. Please, Mr. Ephraim. Anna Mikolayevna, who is Azarov or Ephraim? Azarov. Azarov Mikola Janović.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u36	Dear Arsenius Petrovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! First. I would like to say that what you so applauded, the distinguished people's deputies, the increase in scholarships, pensions, minimum wage, social benefits are all budgeted by us on 15 September this year. And Finance Minister Viktor Mikhailovich Pinzenik admitted it. That's why I thank you for your applause. Second. And to illustrate this, here on this slide shows that all the social standards of the budget of the Yanukovic Government have not changed completely. Therefore, those who have consistently criticized the social policy of the government of Viktor Yanukovic have left us unchanged to establish the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the minimum wage, the amount of childbearing assistance, the third stage of a single wage network, which will result in a significant increase in wage in the budget area. There have been no changes in pensions, no higher grades, no one-time support for orphans and children deprived of parental care. But today, the economic situation gives us reason to believe that social standards are a state guarantee that we should be hanged. Given the relevant decision of the Constitutional Court, today we are asked to limit or abolish legislative norms that set social guarantees and special conditions for paying the work of individual categories of budget workers. On the slide you can see this, you can see it when preferences and benefits cancel out the security categories of citizens. But why is the right to receive them to war veterans, to victims of Nazi persecution, to veterans of work, to the Chernobylites, to children of war whose income is at a certain level? Let me give you a few more examples. The increase in salaries for health - care workers has not been reversed as a result of the Chernobyl disaster. There is a limit to the right to a 50-degree reduction in salary for setting up and using a flat phone, to persons released from military service, to black people deprived of the right to receive an interest-free loan for individual housing. The budget project, developed by the government of Yanukovich, provided considerable funds for restoring the economic potential of the economy. But this has not prevented today's government from canceling more than a dozen investment-innovation programmes. [[on the slide you can see this]] Eliminating every incentive to implement energy conservation programmes, the space sector, the defence and industrial complex, reduced costs to compensate for the cost of domestic agriculture, the reform of housing and utilities. Although virtually all political forces recognize the unsatisfying level of health facilities from the budget, seven - year programs have been removed for the purchase of modern medical equipment under financial lysis, 1 billion have been removed for the construction of a housing fund, 1 billion for the development of mortgage lending. This provides for State guarantees under NAK “Naftogaz Ukraine” under external borrowing of 12 billion dollars for the return of devalued savings. According to current government calculations, the amount of possible returns will be about 20 billion dollars, on the slide you can see how. But none of the government officials warned our fellow citizens that, at the same time as their pledges to return savings from the law, the standard that provides for the indexation of deposits according to the inflation index is excluded. We should remind ourselves that the last savings index was more than 10 years ago. People weren't aware that they had to spend time putting data on them into the information and analysis system, only in this case will the owner of the deposits be able to make this compensation, with the amount of savings in the books being limited to a thousand dollars, and only one investor account, and the amount itself raising doubts, because the 20 billion declared is only 6 billion money, while the other is cash-free and over-planned revenues from privatization, which are not included in the budget balance at all. In addition, a 20 billion - billion - dollar investment will lead citizens to piercoses in consumption patterns. You can see on the slide how the money base dynamics change. Taking into account the declared payments, the expected nominal increase in the cash base in 2008 may be close to 63 billion, which will lead to an increase in the monetary component of inflation. The government budget deficit has been increased by 3 billion, 3 billion, or 2 and 1 percent. It's a negative signal for investors and creditors. The media quoted the minister of finance as saying that our draft budget contained more than 100 billion deficits. Of course, this does not correspond to reality. And the fact that 12 billion non-planned revenue is not reflected in the balance is a real fact. So the budget deficit is artificially low. Its real level is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u37	Twenty seconds to complete.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u38	The real level is 3.4 percent. The budget has made significant changes to tax legislation. The level of GDP was spread across the state budget by 24 percent. That's why the Party of Regions is going to insist on eliminating the imbalance in the budget, taking into account the proposal of the Party of Regions. We are a constructive opposition. We support the social standards that we set ourselves. But the changes are due. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u39	Thank you. Nadnynov Andriy Mihajlovich, Communist Party of Ukraine, Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. A comment was made by Deputy Sasa, who disagreed with us for seven minutes but only five minutes. And he's asking me to put this question to a vote. Peter Mikolaiovich, I want to consult with the hall as soon as possible. Because at the Conciliation Council, we made seven minutes of decisions so that everyone could express their position within 30 minutes. Will you support me, colleagues, or should we put it to a vote? You'll support it. Thank you. Peter Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u40	Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! There is no doubt that there is a serious crisis in Ukraine today. And with regard to the processes that are accompanying the budgetary process, the UK Company is responsible for stating that none of the budgets of an independent Ukraine that were adopted in this room were in line with the problems of society and were not in spite of all the statements made by their authors and customers by development budgets, were essentially state budgets. They did not focus on the development of industry, agriculture, science, technology, culture, medicine. The costs planned for these needs, the introduction of innovations, energy conservation technologies, the production of environmental fuels, and much more, do not meet the needs of today. These budgets did not guarantee a real increase in the well - being of the people, nor did they protect them from economic difficulties, which consistently accompanied citizens. This is primarily the rise in prices and inflation. The problem is that there is no economic basis for increasing production volumes in the real economy today, unfortunately, there is not. Instead, and obviously, all the budgets were calculated according to the interests of the political and financial-industrial clans that have created today's political regime. This was also possible because government property, that is, property belonging to the people, industry, and agricultural enterprises, the sphere of services, and all that was built at the expense of all, were criminalized only by individuals. Again, I remind you that the so-called voucher privatization of the financial pyramids and trusts in people has taken the last money, taken away the last property, and in what way mother gave birth to free capitalist competition. People are good! Fasten your seatbelts today. All of these social programs, if they're executed, will contribute to the fact that you'll have your money drawn in different ways. Already there are significant increases in domestic prices for gas for industrial enterprises, for institutions and organizations. In turn, there is a significant increase in gas prices for companies in the Czech Republic. And this is undoubtedly a new spiral of increasing goods and services for the population, a new spiral of life. In order to reduce social tension and feed the market with cheap goods, borders will be opened for third - class products, and cheap foreign goods, genetically modified foods that destroy the gene pool of nations, will ruin the health of our children. The company is convinced that those economic principles that are the basis for the Supreme Council's consideration of the state budget will have negative consequences for our economy, and will have extremely negative consequences for the domestic producer, for the average consumer. But this is not just a problem with today's budget project, it's basically a corrupt political system that's been in place in Ukraine for over 16 years. What does the Communist faction suggest to the Supreme Council? We have consistently opposed the embezzlement of state property created by the generation of our people. In the proposed draft law, the explanatory note does not even provide information on the number of enterprises proposed by the government for privatization and the unwarranted amount of income from this to the State budget. So we're proposing to delete Article 76, which provides for the receipt and distribution of funds from the privatization of assets of 8.6 billion dollars. We are particularly firm against the sale of agricultural land. Therefore, we require additions to the Law on Changes to the Land Code of Ukraine, which allows the sale of agricultural land and the disclosure of the mechanism for this sale to be removed. We propose to adopt a budget, to adopt a law to continue the moratorium on the prohibition of trade in land, and to leave VAT to agricultural producers for their development. We're trying to meet the requirements of the Constitution and the payment. on payments and annual material assistance to war veterans in full. We propose to set a minimum wage for 2008 of 792 bracelets, a minimum pension, social assistance -- not less than 70 percent of the average wage, a living rate for non-working citizens to get closer to other demographic groups. In order to protect most citizens from the rapid rise in prices, we propose to introduce state price regulation for basic food, essential goods, medicines, housing and utilities. To this end, we have introduced a bill introducing a moratorium on price increases and tariffs. We propose that a government order be made for 50 percent of the gross agricultural production and that it be allocated to the State budget for these 5 billion dollars. In the draft budget, we consider it necessary to increase to 1 billion the amount of mortgage on housing for young families and then to pay off at the expense of the state, 25 percent at the birth of the first child, 50 percent at the birth of the second child, 100 percent at the third. Foresee also the repayment of debts on wages to employees of state - owned enterprises, including those of bankruptcy. In order to implement these proposals, we propose to increase the revenue of the state budget, primarily by returning to the state-owned property of high-cost production, introducing a state monopoly on the production and supply of goods from separate fiscal sectors and on external trade, production and implementation of liquor and tobacco products. Exclusion from the Nazi funding project, GUAM, from spending 80 million dollars on building a memorial for the starving and 15.9 million on the Institute of National Memory. This money is needed alive today. Stop allotment from the State budget of the local budgets of the areas that today have made illegal decisions on funding UN-OPA troops. Setting up an elementary order in the gaming business. We also suggest eliminating VAT and replacing it with a turnover tax. In this way, concrete measures will be taken that will contribute to both the budget and its equitable distribution. And also to introduce a progressive scale of taxation for those with high incomes today, and so we're going to focus on supporting our citizens. That's what the Communist faction insists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u41	Kirilenko Ivan Grigorovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u42	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! The 2008 budget, submitted by the Government of Timoshenko, is a budget aimed at implementing the pre-election programs of the political forces that have created a coalition and formed a government. For the first time, we have a budget that is primarily focused on the interests of millions of Ukrainian citizens, not on the unit of oligarchs that are close to the Prime Minister's office or the cabinets of the professional ministries. In particular, I want to. The prime minister and the minister of finance have also been quite thoroughly told at a government meeting yesterday, and today in the Supreme Council about the figures in the budget. I'd like to repeat a few of them in order to emphasize our citizens' attention to them. First of all, it's going up, and the minimum wage is going up, almost 32 percent, and the minimum wage is going to be 20 percent. State aid to disabled children and disabled children is on the rise. We go to the polls all the time, and we always talk about how we care about the disabled, about the Chernobyls, about the veterans, about the pensioners. It's just that we forget about all of these categories right after the election is over. The government of Timoshenko shows its attention to Ukrainian citizens and after the elections: When there is no election, the government is working steadily. But we came, not to drain the State Budget, as the predecessors did, but to fulfill our promises to the electorate. In particular, six billion dollars are budgeted to protect the Chernobyl population, 35 percent more than last year. For children of war, the budget is eight times higher, it's 3.6 billion. That's right. You know, you can read it, you can tell it how bad it is, and you can't do anything about it. Now, I like it when our opponents tell you that you have 20 billion there, but that's to pay off savings deposits, and that's only six billion real, and you don't know where everyone else is. Well, thank God that six billion are real. You actually had 600 million, and today, December 27th, less than half of that money came to people. So let's give real money than promise unrealistic. The next year’s budget also clears the pension balance. Each of you who has met with people has heard from pensioners the observation that “you work – you don’t work, it doesn’t matter what conditions you worked in, hard or in the office, and the pension is paid the same, and even those who have not worked the pension pay more.” The Timoshenko government is cleaning up this balance, and from now on, people will be given a pension, depending on their work experience, depending on the working conditions in which they worked. And that's just the beginning. In the same way, the government of Tymoshenko pays considerable attention to orphans and children deprived of parental care. The scholarships for children increase by 3-5 times. And that's just the beginning. I think there'll be more. Education spending increases by almost 36 percent, that's 57 billion dollars. For health care, nearly 30 percent of the costs increase in the same way — 32 billion dollars. In defense, which we have always not taken care of before governments, by 20 percent, is almost growing. I would like to say that previous opponents told us that we had taken over everything from the government of Yanukovic. So no one would deny that the 90-95 percent budget is exactly what the previous government was preparing. But what's important about this budget is that all the lobbying programs that make it possible to make billions, billions of units -- those companies that are close to power. That's it. Not only to make money, but also to steal billions from investment projects. These billions are taken from their pockets and handed to the pockets of millions of Ukrainian citizens. This is the main merit of the new government for which we should thank him. That we don't have units, and millions are still begging, and the poor are getting worse, and the government is returning to millions of people. It's the people who voted for us. And to those who did not vote, because support for miners, support for other categories of workers has been increased to order compared to what was provided by the previous government. However, I would like to make some comments. In particular, I think that when the budget was being developed, given that it had only been done for eight days, we should thank the opposition that blocked the work of the Supreme Council, which prevented the budget committee from creating a new government that would prepare it, that had enough time to prepare the budget, so we're taking these circumstances into account. But we would ask the government, when preparing the budget in February or March-month, to pay more attention to the village. The village is the foothold of Ukraine. We need to spend more on subsidies from socio-economic development, including social sites in rural areas, gasification of rural areas. We have to predict in the State budget, there's a lot of, almost 11 billion dollars going to build roads. At least 40 percent of these 11 billion need to be made available in the State Budget to repair rural roads, access to villages, and well - being in villages and villages. In addition, I think that when preparing for budget changes, we should also take into account the wishes expressed by the President of Ukraine, particularly with regard to FAPs, on affordable housing and so on. In general, I would like to point out that the non-acceptance of the budget -- and let for the citizens of Ukraine it be an indicator: who doesn't vote for the budget -- that is, those who don't vote, they provoke inflation, they provoke that the budget imbalance of one hundred billion dollars next year, they don't allow wages and pensions to rise, and thus, as a result, millions of citizens of Ukraine to worsen their lives. That's why we urge today to vote for the budget for the consideration, and tomorrow, in the first reading, in the second and in general, to work so that tomorrow we can adopt the budget so that people will have a new, better level of social security in the new year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u43	Thank you. Kenzior Jaroslav Mihajlovich, “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Kirilenko Viacheslav Anatoliyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u44	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense”. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Of course, no matter how much we have compressed the procedure, the new budget is needed by the country. We've done everything we can to get to this point as quickly as possible. Unlike previous calls, we chose a speaker, not for two months, but for one week. Unlike past cases, we have virtually chosen both the Prime Minister and the government from the democratic coalition. Working virtually 24 hours a week, the government introduced a new budget, which I think is our responsibility to approve in a consolidated manner, regardless of who the electorate voted for, since the increase in salaries, pensions, relief, and other necessary things will touch the supporters of all without the exception of political forces. I want to remind you that a year ago, when our faction and BUT were in opposition, we voted in favour of the budget of the previous government. We voted, even after the president made proposals that still didn't make the faction "Our Ukraine" because they didn't meet those wage standards and the living minimum that we insisted on. But then, last December, we realized that the budget was needed by the country, regardless of the political preferences of each citizen, and we voted. So, as the current ruling coalition, we call on factions that do not belong to the coalition, including the Party of Regions, which has officially declared the transition to the opposition, to vote in favour of the budget in these days. Despite the fact that this is certainly not a budget for shining macroeconomic indicators. But it can't be like that, but it's a budget that provides substantial and significant social distortions. The faction "Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense" is satisfied that the coalition government in the budget has included all but one of President Yushchenk's social initiatives, which it announced this summer. Then, by the way, opponents from the then government talked about the impossibility of their implementation and accused us of populism. And now in the draft country's main financial document, all of President Yushchenk's social initiatives are reflected and executed by the ruling coalition and the new democratic government. And this says that the minimum wage by the end of next year is going to be over 600 dollars, which means that the real average pay should be substantially increased. This suggests that the President’s commitment to an increase of 35 percent on average to pension workers will be fulfilled. This suggests that this budget will allow for the full introduction of a single tariff network of salaries in the following year. And a qualified doctor, a teacher, will receive a much higher salary. This suggests that scholarships and children to orphans, and simply to students and students in all schools, will be increased. This suggests that the maintenance of military personnel will also increase significantly. And this tells us that there's been a new breath, a new phase of the Presidential program of birthing help. And in 2004, opponents were talking about populism when we called the figure 8,000,500 dollars for every mother who gave birth to a baby. We fulfilled that obligation in the first democratic government. Now the joint decision between the two factions of the coalition and the government increases these payments in the next phase. And from January 1st 2008, the payment for the birth of the first child will be 12,000 400 dollars, the birth of the second child will be 25,000, and the birth of the third child will be 50,000 dollars. This means that no government will be able to change this presidential program to improve the demographic situation in the country and support the young mother and the young family. This program has gained irreversibility and demonstrates the attitude of the entire Ukrainian state to this problem, which was ignored by no government until 2004 and no president was elected President Viktor Yushchenk in 2005. True, we make our own adjustments, which involve a series of questions. First of all, we are amending the government's obligation to make changes to the introduction of 20 percent allowance to all teachers, doctors, librarians working in rural areas. It's in our coalition agreement, and we're making this amendment -- it's our obligation to the electorate. And in addition, it is certainly true that in the body of the budget bill there are changes that relate to the cancellation of the benefits to the Ukrainian people's deputies. It's also, I can remind you, a commitment to "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" and, as far as I know, to BUT. So the proportions proposed in this part of the draft budget do not allow our faction, and we are amending it on behalf of the faction to cancel all benefits to the national MPs, including an unwarranted high pension of 90 percent for those who were once national deputies. Including in order to eliminate the restrictions on wages and a number of other benefits and privileges that remain even in this budget. Since the coalition program is called not only a “Ukrainian breakthrough” but: “law is one for all”, so these proposals are being introduced by the faction “Our Ukraine - National Self-Defense” today, this is the official position of the faction, and requests the government to take them into account, as well as a whole range of other issues relating to the welfare of ordinary people, including those that live in the village and for which we need to fulfil our obligations. I think all macroeconomic things will be regulated when we get to the new Tax and Budget Codes next year. Now we call for a vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u45	Thank you, Viachelav Anatolyovich. [[Applause]] "Litvina Block", Vastuk Katerina Timofievna. Please, Catherine Timothy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u46	Dear National Deputies! Dear voters! As with all the national MPs, there was very little time for us to take a thorough look at all the innovations and changes that have been made to the budget, but from the first analysis, the following comes into our eyes. First. The state budget has made many changes to the laws of Ukraine, more than a hundred laws, including those relating to taxation. And it would be very commendable if this tax applied only to those, as it seemed from the rostrum, who had superiors, large funds, rich people. This tax applies to a much larger, wider category of people and would like to be given the power of the Finance Committee, and especially to the part that knows taxes today, to the Tax Committee to take a deep look at all the changes that are made to tax legislation. To make it clear that they do not make these changes worse for producers, farmers, or industrial workers. In particular, we insist that the budget be clearly stated, or even more specifically adopted, by a separate law, a change in the value added tax. Julia Volodymyrna, the head of Kabminu, spoke, said that the villagers could be calm, and the value added tax remained within the same framework. And the budget says something else, which remains only until Ukraine's entry into the WTO. That is, the benefits or the tax system of peasant VAT will remain only until February, perhaps March 2008. Our law, which we have developed, has been reviewed and adopted by national deputies today on a tax committee. We record that only the following year after Ukraine’s entry into the WTO may return to changing this rule of law. And in general, the budget has to make it clear that this entire year there is an old tax system. Next. The same applies to the same tax rate for the added value for food and processing businesses. Earlier, the value added rate went as a supplement, as a subsidy to agricultural producers, and this amounted to little in Ukraine — not much — about 6 billion dollars. It is a subsidy to anyone who sells milk and support to the household and a large commodity farm, both for milk and for meat. So it also needs to be clearly stated in the budget that this rule remains unchanged. I highlighted and we give all these points. Next. Unfortunately, the budget does not mention an increase in wages in part of the cost structure. We insist that by special legislation, because we're changing so many laws, maybe the budget said what part of the pay should be worth it. There's now 7-8 percent, when the entire civilized world has at least 30 percent, where there's such low wages, there's social insecurity, there's a large migration of our labor force abroad. And for the first time in the history of the budget process, changes are made to the Earth Code in such large amounts in the budget of Ukraine, in the budget law. Dear government officials! And dear national MPs! We have no right today to vote in favour of the agricultural land market without legislation that will be adopted until the budget is voted on, without its signature by the President of Ukraine, we cannot vote in favour of the budget as a whole. What is the threat to Ukraine? This threatens to cause corruption to reach unprecedented proportions. The fact that people have lost their privatisation vouchers in their time is going to be very small compared to how many millions of people are going to lose that land that today is called pie land. Therefore, we simply insist that the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land has been extended. And an article in the budget, which provides for billions of dollars of agricultural land to come for sale, must be removed. We also want to say that we have a worse budget for self-governance bodies, local self-governance bodies. They are increasing from 4.1 billion to 5.6 billion. This will greatly exacerbate the situation of these organs in places such as land, gold, and so forth. Depending on how these proposals are taken into account, they will depend on the position.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u47	Let me finish. Catherine Timothy, say the last words because there was no hearing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u48	Depending on how the proposals of the Lithuanian Block will be taken into account, our position on the budget vote will depend. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u49	Thank you, Catherine Timothy. Ladies and gentlemen, we have an hour to present for consideration and a committee to follow. We've been with you for 35 minutes, more or less. So I'm asking you to sign up for a three-minute speech by the Ukrainian National Deputies. We're taking 25 minutes. At the same time, let's sign up for the performance, and I'll ask another one of you right now. The statement has been written. Colleagues, situation next. Now we have 17.51. Formally and legally, I have the right to continue the meeting of the Supreme Council of the Plenary for only 15 minutes. Given that we still have a day-to-day decision, which is actually made by the Committee on Budget Affairs, it's 1285, and on the basis of the arrangements we had, I'm asking for the next agenda to be considered right now. We work for 25 minutes because of the performances of the national MPs and now allow the national MPs to express their position. Then there's a statement of two factions for 15 minutes for a break for a final reconciliation of 1285, then we vote and then we split up. So I would like to vote in favour of the continuation of the plenary session of the Supreme Council until the debate is held on 1285. Please turn on the voting system. [[17:52:43]] For 270. Decision taken. ‘For’ — 270. Thank you very much for your support. I ask for the words of Oliynik Svetoslav Vasilovich, “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. By factions, please show me how they voted. Jaroslav Suhi, please. I'm sorry you beat me up. An oil man. Tomenko Mikola Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u50	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that today we have the opportunity to begin and in a few days to complete the adoption of the main economic and financial document of Ukraine. And I want to withdraw immediately the warnings that were made here in the session room without blaming anyone, because when I hear arguments about the shortness of budgeting, I want to mention how for a few months we've been preparing to work in the Supreme Council and what has prevented it. Therefore, my proposal to forget the words “someone has hindered” or terms and to say that our historic mission by December 31st to approve the budget and in a peaceful environment in February to analyse and improve this core document for the benefit of those or other social groups that have not yet received full optimal funding, because that is not possible. Second position. I wanted to say from my colleagues who are worried about sports issues that when the budget was being prepared, some officials from the local level obviously intervened and created a problem for the development of sport and preparations for the Euro-2012, and I would like to point out that the 300 million dollars that were foreseen for the reconstruction of the National Olympics should be the money of the government and the state, not the subsidies of the city, because we know how the city's power is in charge of sport. Soon all the sports stadiums in Kiev will be closed, and 300 million more will be available. So 300 million is the sum for the ministry and the state. The second position relates to the preparation of the Beijing Olympics. We worked with the Ministry to see that the amount is decent, but at least 21 million more needs to be prepared by our team to make sure that we feel confident and take responsibility for the fact that the National Assembly of Ukraine is ready to prepare for the Olympics. And a few warnings about justice. You know that the government has taken a bold and right step and deprived the benefits of the national deputies. I think it would be fair for us to have a whole series of articles that relate to the stationary medical care of the national deputies of the governing body of the State, the medical outpatient care of the heads of state authorities, the sanitary and epidemiological supervision, these are all the articles in the State Administration to also clean them up fairly, that's about 300 million, if we took the benefits from the deputies, we should rightly refer to the Government's administration of matters. As soon as we're about 300 million short, I think we can increase the figure for rural medicine 150 million significantly, seriously. Because both the previous government and the current government are giving 150 million to the FAP. We're going to take 300 million to the State Administration, so you're already in big money for rural medicine. That's why I'm asking you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u51	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! First, I quote: “The Supreme Council of Ukraine is not responsible for the adoption of the State Budget Act of Ukraine, including the provision to amend the current laws of Ukraine, to stop the act of individual laws of Ukraine and, in any way, to modify the legal regulation of social relations laid down by other laws of Ukraine.” This is about the absence of a response to the Constitutional Court's decision. I quoted the Constitutional Court’s decision of July 9, 2007, which is universally mandatory for implementation throughout Ukraine. What we see in the proposed bill. The second section provides for amendments to the 101 laws in force in Ukraine and for an unlimited period of time. In particular, let me remind you of one digit. The minimum hourly wage is set to 6 copies in size of 3 bracelets. These aren't the 25 bracelets that offered some political powers that went to the polls, particularly the Vladimir Lithuania Block, I doubt they'll vote in favour of this bill. Dear colleagues! The disgraceful intervention of the Social Budget Act, introduced in 2000, by the government of Yushchenka, followed by all governments, without exception, thrives and strengthens, in flagrant violation of article 22 of the Constitution of Ukraine. Savings. I didn't get the number. If you are 2 years old, someone has promised to return savings in this room in two years, where are those 65 billion dollars for 2008 and 65 billion dollars for 2009? The other one. We've been through this before. We were trying to save on debts for residential services. Look, it just makes people nervous, because someone who paid honest and conscientiously for residential services now feels cheated once. Second, the housing industry, which cracks and breaks down, gets not money, but virtual promises. You can't do that. I'll believe that this government and this government sincerely wants to return the savings if this work is systematic, consistent and purposeful. If we answer the question: (a) What is the cost of 131 billion? (b) What amount can Ukraine bear as an internal government debt? (c) If we know there's a structural unit. He's not in Minfin, Cabmine, or Savings. That structural unit that's supposed to be doing the savings return. And the last. Once again, we see anachronism that is forbidden by the Constitutional Court. We're reading. The indicator is introduced “the level of provision of the subsistence minimum”. It's harassment! The poverty line is 465 dollars. The poverty line is 372 bracelets. The government offers 170 pennies of aid to the poor. I think this bill is total cynicism and hypocrisy. You can't vote for him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u53	Herman Hanna Mikolayevna, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u54	Dear colleagues, the honourable reporter emphasized that she had created this draft budget in seven days. Only the Lord could create the world in seven days, and we can see how imperfect that world is. And I hope the reporter doesn't have such high ambitions. But questions. Why in seven days? After all, the members of the orange coalition have always been confident that they will win, form a coalition, and come to power. So from election day, they had enough time to prepare for that authority. Why did they have to spend only six days doing this? Keep going. In September with you, your honorary colleagues, members of the National Unity Coalition, we have cancelled benefits for MPs and officials of all levels. And it is good that today’s government has confirmed this decision with you and has not included aid costs in the budget. That's very good. But we didn't cancel the benefits for the poor, for the veterans of war, for the veterans of labor who can't drive for free, for those farmhands who can't live in the country, and who have even the smallest benefits, and so on and so forth. And one more thing, dear colleagues. We've seen that in this budget project, 40 percent of all cultural expenditure is expenditure on the All-Ukrainian cot, on the Powlsky Institute. The government of Janukovic has done everything to ensure that the Lviv Conservatory, the Lviv Music Institute, 150 years old and that the professor of which Maester Skorik wrote the tune that Oksana Bilozer made her own hunger video. So we gave this institution national status, but there's not a word in the budget, not a penny to ensure this status, but instead we're going to fund the entire Ukrainian cot. I don't know about you, but I can't give up my vote for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u55	Schmelova Svetlana Alexandrovna, Communist Party of Ukraine The word of Alexandria is given to him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u56	Thank you. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction, the city of Harkov. Speakers from the orange coalition said that the budget was so good that the President should be proud of the excellent intentions of the budget. However, I think that the President has a different impression because the figures set out in this budget indicate that not only the President's proposal is being crossed out, but also the small achievements in state-building, when we give our citizens some minimum guarantees. We do not fulfil these guarantees year after year. Moreover, the budget indicates that, unfortunately, the populism in which the oranges came into this room is melting like a soap bubble. And yet, in this room, without consciousness, they continue to hang a paw on people's ears. What am I talking about? 20 billion per deposit. We would be happy to fertilize you with this sum because, indeed, how many people have gone out of life in poverty, in hunger, in poverty, have not been able to obtain their labour savings, nor have we been able to obtain the money they have earned in their labor. And today this number is in this room, it is said seriously, although unfortunately there is no such number in the budget. She's not in income, of course, she's not in expenditure. Here only 6 billion is a small part because, I recall, 15 copies - a loaf of bread in 1990-1991 and today for 2 bracelets. Today, the ruble of deposits should be indexed with 15-20 bracelets. However, the Government in the draft budget destroyed the indexation of contributions, excluded them in the Budget Act, amended the Investments Act, which excluded the indexation of contributions. This is a re-deception of the population of Ukraine. And do you not feel ashamed to applaud this deception? Next. The 12 billion people who are offering to claim contributions are 12 billion from over-planned privatization. Excuse me, but where's the privatization, where's her plan, where's the list of sites? Who are you going to take from? That sounds wild. By taking away their jobs, their businesses, their institutions, where they work and receive guaranteed wages, because they are public enterprises, and you will privatize them. And then people will find themselves without pay thrown out on the street. And you're telling people, do you promise to pay this money like money for deposits? It is a vile deception and unworthy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I propose that the draft budget delete all amendments to other laws, 108 of which relate to the reduction of the benefits of citizens. You represent, you make the benefit limit depending on the level of income. Sounds nice. What are you really doing? The man the teacher is today, the doctor of the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u57	Yavorowski Vladimir Aleksandrovich, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u58	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Dear national MPs, distinguished by our very patient voters, who are now listening to us and may think that there are people here who have been chosen in different countries, and, if you will, such an impression that they have been chosen in different centuries absolutely! For this reason, excuse us, as we are. I'm talking about culture. I want to remind you once again that Ukraine will not be able to see the world for the next 30 to 40 years with its cars, with its TVs, with other products of the national economy, we are interesting to the world primarily with our national face and our culture. It's the most precious thing we have with you that we've managed to save. And I want to remind you right away that the new government, I know very well the previous budget, I've studied it, especially on cultural issues, I haven't changed any of the comas in approaches to culture, they've stayed exactly the same. That's why I went up to this rostrum to lead both to the Prime Minister and to the Humanitarian Vice Prime Minister, and from a minister who now doesn't seem to have to look radically at all these issues before we adopt the budget. I am well aware of the lack of funds. That's why we asked the committee where all the factions are, in spite of Lithuania, we asked the question: we are prepared with the very modest funds that we have to redistribute wisely in the budget. [[They lacked a cultural influence.]] [[It's a billion two hundred million, it's a little bit larger.]] So here I am, and Hanna Herman has already talked about the Institute of Flooding. Well, good people, who are we? I remind you again of the figures: 170 with a tail of millions are allocated to all the cultural institutions. It's an academy, it's all our conservatory, it's a theater institute, and there's 102 million on one single line! Well, people are good, whether it's good or not, when we're releasing 102 million wigs today. State funds?Oh, my God! Where'd you see that?Oh, my God! [[Applause]] In addition, there is a separate line, and a separate line of the West Flood “Step to the Stars” for children is another 5 million. [[All the rest of the activities that are being carried out in culture are thrown into the same cauldron.]] Well, people are good, well, how much does one person need to put in their hands in order for him to sing us this "Poultry"?Oh, my God! Because of that. I want to do it again. We have a good relationship on the committee. We finally have to take radical measures -- redistribute normal, civilized costs, and that's enough for now. We will do this and ask the government to support us in this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u59	Thank you. Mt. Uljana Mikolayevna, “Club of Yulia Timoshenko”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u60	Dear colleagues, I'd like to stop at two fundamental moments. What's the state of the budget? As a result of the work, unfortunately, the Court of Auditors only analyzed the work for nine months. I'm only quoting two phrases. First. “The lowest level of the Accounting Chamber has analysed the Citizens’ Income Growth Report since 2000.” This is the estimate given by the Ukrainian Court of Auditors for the implementation of this budget. Another phrase. “The highest level of inflation and price increases since 2000”. All we're going to get for today is actually the starting point, the starting point so that we can continue to develop. Now for a few key thesauruss. I understand that when crocodile tears are shed about 20 billion in the budget, which I would like to stress is every citizen of Ukraine who, losing savings, gets a thousand dollars at least in the form of direct payments for a savings book. The other one. I would like to point out that this budget actually raises the level of social security standards solely because of the real growth in the economy. I'll give you a couple of examples. Here a few theses were heard “Where will you take the money to privatize?” Of course, there will never be a penny of privatization in the State budget if the major objects of the state are actually donated rather than sold in open competitions. Only our Zaporizka and the Dnipropetrov region lost, as a minimum, 10 billion dollars on account of the illegal alienation of the largest heat stations in Zaporjek, Dnipropetrov region. That way you can sell all the property for cash. What was done in previous years. Then there will be no surrender of funds from privatization. The third fundamental moment. There's a claim that we've lowered the social standards for individual population categories. I think, thank God, there will be no objections to national MPs and ministers. Now let's look at the key entries that are in every article of the budget for a whole range of citizens. And this record only shows one thing: if a person's income is above average, this citizen can't get at the same level as a pensioner, like a multi-child family, like any other person, because it's socially unfair. And the last. Yes, we have now actually two days left for the country to enter the budget, which will raise salaries, pensions. If that doesn't happen, actually the first January will be the month of collapse of the entire Ukrainian budget system. So each of us has a choice. We're voting for the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u61	This was the case with the deputy Soboljev. Gricenko Anatoly Stepanovich. He is given the word of the deputy Lukyanov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u62	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, reverend Julia Volodymyrical, respected colleagues! I would like to summarize the position of the National Security and Defence Committee that discussed the draft budget today. Obviously, it is difficult to demand from the government in a week of dramatic changes. And that's why we decided to recommend that we support this draft budget, but under two conditions. [[I'm actually going to start with that.]] Condition one: now, before accepting it as a whole, remove those positions that provide for restrictions on social security for military personnel, or those who serve, or those who are released from reserve, for military veterans. Yesterday, there were 10 of them, and today there are five. I hope the government will support and remove these positions. People won't understand us. Secondly, the committee insists that, no later than February, the government introduces a draft amendment to the 2008 State Budget Act, which provides for what was actually promised, what was written in the documents. In particular, with regard to the armed forces, financing of not less than 2 percent of the gross domestic product and substantial increases in funding for other forces, especially where it relates to the issue of financial security and technical resupply. In writing, we submitted our proposals to the Committee on Budgets. And now I want to say in fact, once again, without characterizing the responsibility of this government, because the same problems were in the project that the previous government I was working in, I held back. Expenditures, government budget revenues increased by more than 30 percent, and expenditures planned for defence increased by only 5 percent, even less. The question is, is the army a priority for the government or not? Obviously not. If everyone were to increase by 30 with an extra one, that would be a lack of priority. If the armies gave more than 30 -- that was the priority, and if they only increased by 4.5 percent -- that's not the priority. And so if you don't keep those numbers until the end of the first quarter of the change, you have to stop honestly all of the discussions, not about speeding up the transition to a professional, contractual army, but actually speaking honestly about stopping this process and dragging it further, in 2011. The members of the committee were very concerned that housing costs had been reduced, even in absolute numbers, and that it was only about building 2,000 apartments, with 48,000 flatless people -- that was nothing. In 2005, some 6,000 apartments were built. We can't go back. The cost of purchasing military equipment in absolute terms has been reduced, and the Minprompolitics lined up this year. Taking into account inflation, weapons production and power generation will be reduced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u63	Let me finish, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u64	We'll pass on these suggestions in writing. I would like to stress once again, please support with time-consuming this budget project, taking into account the committee's observations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u65	Thank you. Please, Sivolski Mikola Ivanovich, BUT.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u66	Dear Julius Volodymyrically, reverend Arsenija Petrovich! Dear colleagues, voters! I want to point out that a government that only works for seven days has been able to provide an adequate response to the challenge that it has inherited. He was able to prepare a budget that met the expectations of the people with whom they came to the polling stations and voted in favour of the political forces. First. The government is demonstrating that it has already embarked on the “Ukrainian Breakout” programme. Because for the first time, we were able to balance the budget with a deficit of 105 billion. In doing so, we are solving the challenge of halting the unfortunate decline in citizens' savings and incomes due to inflation, and the government will clearly address this issue so that this factor of lowering the standard of living does not work next year. We're doubling again, 2.5 times the rate of wage increases, pensions, minimum income, which the previous government didn't do and wasn't going to do. We have been following up on the Constitutional Court decision of July 9th, which the government of Yanukovich has rejected. The question of deposits. Dear voters, you remember how a year ago from this rostrum, the First Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance for Major Achievements said that we were going to target 600 million for savings and 20 billion for them. It'll be next year. There will be. And this is all budgeted. I want all of us to be responsible politicians and understand, we have no choice. If we don't vote for the budget today, from January 1st, all citizens will receive lower wages and pensions, because the principle of one twelfth will be in force, and the increase was in the old budget at the end of the year. We have no right to take this step, so I urge all political forces to be conscious of the responsibilities of our voters. And finally, I want to point out that there are very significant reserves of replenishment in the budget. The first few days of headquartering have shown that the reserves are very high, and we will prepare such proposals for an agreement with the finance minister and submit them in January next year. For example, to understand what is involved. Please tell us we're exempt from the tax on the ground.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u67	Najonov Andry Mihajlovich, Communist Party of Ukraine 45 seconds left, dear friends. We've got it all written down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the Communist faction, Cibenko. When you and I are in the budget process, we are very often asked by our voters when the budget is adopted. Yes, especially today. But on the other hand, what will it be? The previous speaker firmly assured that this government and this majority are going to comply with the Constitutional Court’s decision. Dear colleagues, we are seeing a very opposite trend today. Well, first of all, the State Budget Act and the current legislation are amended by 102 laws, including 82 social ones. As an illustration of what is being done, I am taking the Act on the Status of War Veterans, the Guarantee of Social Protection. Its forecast is that by May 9, different categories of war participants receive certain benefits, namely, between 10 and three minimum pensions. What is happening today? Today, the law provides for the removal of ten, eight, seven minimum pensions, instead of a rule: it is established by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine within the limits of budgetary assignments. What does that mean? And that means that one bracelet is going to be budgeted, one bracelet is going to be paid, and there is no problem with the Constitutional Court's decision. So this is about basic switching. The laws apply the rules by which the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will determine for itself what to pay, what to pay, what not to pay. The second thing I'd like to point out in particular. The point is that after the decision has been taken by the Supreme Council of Ukraine, after the adoption of the budget, any disabled person, any participant in the war can ask each of you the question: what am I supposed to get by May 9th? And you'll say, what the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine will predict in the budget allocations. I don't know. That is, we are voting for a “cat in a bag”. Another element. The point is that today the benefits, including those involved in the war, depend on the average income of a family member. So, in other words, the disabled of the First Group war, or the two disabled of the First Group war, who are in different families in different financial states, they find themselves on different sides of the barricade, even though they were in the same trench, spilling the same blood, fighting over the same country, fighting fascistism, and today they appear on different sides of the barricade. Therefore, dear fellows! That's the kind of document to support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u69	Dear National Deputies! The time for discussion and the speeches are over, we have decided on a 15-minute recess to finally agree on the Supreme Council Resolution 1285, unfortunately, Mr. Schershun, just doesn't have enough time, so next time, it's already minus three minutes. So there's a request, heads of factions, please rise on the third floor, we'll now agree on 1285 and come back here to conduct the voting procedure. Thank you. 15 minutes, I say again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-27-m0.u70	Just give me half a second to finally agree on the draft determination to complete. Dear National Deputies! Let me tell you the results of the Conciliation Council meeting, they are, as always, optimistic in our Supreme Council. The first thing I'd like to start is that it seems that all the factions, all the national MPs who took part in the Conciliation Council, understand the need to adopt the budget. And I would like to point out that this is about the state budget of Ukraine. This is not about the color of the budget or the color of a political party, it is about the fact that all the political forces today have agreed to accept the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget. Moreover, today we have come to an agreement that tomorrow we will conduct both first and second reading and the adoption of the law as a whole. (O p l s c i). But this extremely important decision must be voted on. It has been my great honor, as always, to announce a draft decree of the Supreme Council that we have not been able to print physically. But according to the Conciliation Board's decision, I would like to introduce it by vote, and I ask you to listen carefully to the text of this ruling, so that we can actually complete the procedure for the approval of the Ukrainian draft State Budget Act tomorrow. All right. Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine “On Admission to the Draft Law. on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine 2008 and amending certain Ukrainian legislative acts. The Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. Ukraine's Draft Law on Ukraine's 2008 State Budget and amending certain legislative acts submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to be considered. [[Registration number 1285]] Item two. To entrust the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine with the budget for the participation of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine to generalize the proposals of the parliamentary factions and committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the bill and to submit this bill, as well as conclusions and proposals for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 12 December 2007. Paragraph three. To hold an evening plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 28 December 2007 to be considered in a second reading and adopted throughout the Ukraine Act on the State Budget of Ukraine and to amend certain legislative acts of Ukraine. Paragraph 4. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Head of the Supreme Council. Jacinoc. Ladies and gentlemen, the request to vote unanimously. Please turn on the voting system. Z-410 Dear friends, 410. I'm asking you to show by factions. This is another signal of the unity of Ukrainian society and unity at the national priorities of all the forces represented in Parliament. Thank you, Your Honor. Tomorrow's meeting at 12 o'clock. I ask the committee and the Cabinet of Ministers to actively prepare for the first reading. Thank you. Yes! Colleagues, I forgot! I forgot the important thing, I'm sorry. We forgot to welcome Landik Vladimir Ivanovich and Oliynik Viktor Stepanovich to his birthday, so welcome. The evening plenary session is closed. Tomorrow's the 12th year.
