ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs, guests invited to the Supreme Council. I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. Let's register. [[10:01:51]] Registered — 441 There are 441 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning session of the Supreme Council is public. Dear colleagues, let's welcome our comrades in the session hall: Vasil Stepanovich Bogchuk, 45 years old today and colleague of Alexeiev Igor Viktorovich and Voropejev Yuri Mikolaiovich. Representatives of three factions. Two more and everyone would be represented. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, statements, messages. Please register those who wish to participate in these statements and messages. Yes, please explain. Mikola Tomenko. Get ready for Sunshine, please. == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u2	Dear National Deputies! Viennese, parliamentary opposition. I am now authorized to republish the parliamentary opposition's view of yesterday's vote on breaking the veto after the moratorium on land. Since there have been a lot of speculation about this, including last night and in the media, I want to say that the voting of the faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko" has been completely understood, it has been weighed, and it has emerged from the political position of the faction, which has long been formulated and which is obvious. I want to remind you of how the Earth Code was adopted and for whom. The Land Code was adopted in grave violation of the Rules and provided for procedures that were aimed not at the interests of peasants but at the interests of land speculators. And that's why all the promises that came after that were said that these laws would have to be worked out and formed a legislative base on this issue, they were ignored by the authorities. And remember who voted in favour of this Earth Code, including the largest faction that today in the parliamentary majority, who was the real leader of this bill, and who has done everything today, under the authority that this Earth Code should not work and that the real market of the earth should not work, but that the secret speculative procedures on earth should be closed. The second position is the economic aspect. Agricultural land is our monopoly. God has given us, Ukraine and the Ukrainian people, this land, and this is our exclusive right that we have today. And so to trade stupidly in this land, much more to do what God, the object of speculation and the plundering of his own people, is unacceptable. The introduction of the Earth Code today would mean that this would have happened, that there would have been no market for land, and that there would have been an elementary robbery of a Ukrainian peasant, and he would have taken the last thing he had for today. We don't believe in the myth that the market settles everything in land relations. It's not in the world practice, there's no free market for agricultural land in European countries, and it can't be, because it's a special product, a special specific economic category that can't be reduced to what's going on at the market when people are left unemployed, they're done without wages, and today they're being forced to pay for their future, and they're being forced to give money for what their future can be built for. Therefore, we believe that since we have declared the European vector for Ukraine's development, European civilised approaches, including land issues, cannot be supported by things that are absolutely not responsible for the land market in European countries. I want to remind you that the most efficient agricultural production, and we are talking today about the content of land reform, which should be an effective agricultural production for the benefit of the people working on this earth. Today’s legal base does not allow this market to be built on earth, nor does it allow the earth to be directed to the interests of those who work on earth. Clearly, therefore, it was necessary to vote in favour of breaking the veto after the moratorium on the earth. I also want to say that the countries that have the most efficient agriculture today do not have an open market for land, they have market relations of land, including, sales mechanisms are perfectly well regulated by legislation. The social aspect of this issue. Sadly, few speak of him today, but he must be the key. Ukraine today has 30 percent of the population that lives in the village and feeds from the land. And those who want to sell Ukrainian land because of such primitive, stupid speculative mechanisms, and who don't get to the Ukrainian peasant, because he doesn't have the money to buy it, they're going to go to the people who robbed, including the peasant for the last 15 years, or to the foreigners who put money here through the people who are responsible. And this peasant today will strip off the last source of his life on earth. I would like to remind you that on earth today in the Ukrainian village is the root of the Ukrainian nation, the root of Ukraine, the root of our political history. And that would mean today, especially if I were to go to those people who are sitting on the right side of us. If you're in favor of national interests, for Ukraine, and you don't understand that selling land is selling the same Ukrainian national interests and selling real Ukrainians, then I don't understand what logic there is in political decision-making, the political context. Our village oligarchs have made their fortunes in the last 15 years. Once again, I want to insist that the basic wealth of today, under all economic laws, all the added value is essentially created on earth. It's a classic economic theory. And those rich people who are on the scene today are getting a lot of their wealth from robbing a Ukrainian village. And what's being proposed today is to let the land go for free sale, which would mean another stage of the looting of the Ukrainian village. That would mean the last source for which.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u3	Thank you. Six minutes now. Please, Alexeyev passes the word to Matthew, and he has six minutes. Matthew, please, the Communist faction. Get ready for Chewchenka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u4	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine notes with concern that the head of State, Yushchenko and his Secretariat, are increasingly intensifying destructive actions to discredit the legislative activities of the Supreme Council, which are aimed at overcoming the devastating effects of almost two-time orange rule. Not wanting to accept the transfer of key powers to the Supreme Council and to the Cabinet of Ministers in the administration of the state, which was legally established by constitutional reform, based on the principle of “I am in the house of the true master”, the President waged a real war with Parliament by imposing a veto on newly adopted societies and the people of Ukraine with legislative acts. Uncovered irritation was triggered, as we have seen, by the laws passed by Parliament last December to extend the moratorium on land sales from 1 January 2008 and to increase the responsibility for the arbitrary capture of land. He was quick to veto both legislative acts. In the Supreme Council yesterday, i.e. January 9th, there were enough voices, principles, I would say, and insistence on overcoming the Presidential veto to the law on extending the land moratorium. I would like to believe that in Parliament, common sense will prevail, and when we consider overcoming the veto into a law to increase responsibility for the arbitrary capture of land. Today, society is concerned that in matters of land policy, the head of state is not a guarantor of the Constitution, not a defender of public and national interests, but a supporter of further strengthening of the wayward and lawless. He does not want to see the threatening proportions in Ukraine of the process of shadow sales, illegal alienation, and self - capture of land. In the Autonomous Republic of Crimea alone, 40,000 acres [40,000 ha] of fertile land have already been captured in this way. Double standards governed by the President during the promise of legislative acts often put him before Parliament and in public opinion in an unattractive light. All are aware of the propensity with which he is fighting today for the speediest sale of national acquisitions and, surprisingly, rejects the law on the listing of property rights subject to privatization in 2007, since he said that the law would create artificial restrictions and prevent foreign investment from being involved in the development of privatized enterprises. A faction of Communists, as you know, respected colleagues, did not vote in favour of this law because it was and remains a principled opposer of the transfer of state property into private hands. But you can't help but resent Yushchenk's overwhelming concern about foreign investors who, since the beginning of privatization, have managed to invest as much as $24 billion in the Ukrainian economy, but have taken possession of tens, if not hundreds of billions of dollars. Without hesitation and remorse, Yushchenko vetoed the Law on State Guarantees for Restoration of Citizens’ Savings, which was adopted by the Supreme Council in December last year, again following the insistence of the anti - crisis coalition. Each time, it appears cynically before the elections as a card of assurance that savings, the President and his surroundings will be compensated, and they will not think to live up to their promises, for they are also here zealously defending the interests of those who, 15 years ago, are warming up on this giant affair and. are not going to deal fairly with this baking problem for millions of their fellow countrymen. The Communist MP is strongly protesting the efforts of Yashchenk and his orange team to destroy the legislative work of Parliament, including the anti-crisis coalition. Harmful attempts to undermine the social and political situation in the country, to provoke early parliamentary elections are completely capable of burying under the rubble of the rest of popular confidence in the presidential authority. With all keenness to put the day's issue of the President's impeachment into order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u5	Thank you. Please, Andrew Shevchenko. Get ready for Cosmiakin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u6	Good morning, dear fellows! Andrew Shevchenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I do not share what the previous speaker said, but I also want to talk about the earth. I didn't vote for the presidential veto last night. But I think I have words that will be relevant for those who voted for the extension of the moratorium and for those who did not vote. I think yesterday what happened here on this stand, in general, in the hall, it showed that power is once again split, it's split across the ground, and I think that what we saw on this stand, when there was a competition, people were in charge of finding out who in Ukraine is the bigger latifundist and what is actually still driving the peasant into the fortification, into the moratorium or the presidential veto. I think that all of this actually has a very conditional, not always fully related to what's going on in real life. How did many villagers actually feel when they heard it? I think a lot of them actually felt annoyed, disappointed, I think. I think it's fair to say that in fact in this country, I think we're all in great debt to the village and to the peasant, and to the president, and to Parliament, and to power and opposition. Because for years the village has only heard promises that it will someday become the owner of the earth, but that is not the case. And now I want to talk about the reality that we now have, the reality -- this is the moratorium that the Supreme Council voted for yesterday. It's the law, it's the law for everyone, it's the law for those who voted for the moratorium and for those who didn't vote, and it's definitely the law for the President. We're all in the same boat now and we all have to work together. Obviously, the motives for the vote were very different, and I'm sure that the Communists and my faction of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko, who voted for the moratorium, have very different motives. Because I have a suspicion that the Communists voted for the moratorium because they do not want the peasants ever to become master of their land. Perhaps by not believing in the things that both colgs and the pregnant and the gray have gone into the past forever. I am convinced that my faction, the faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, voted in favour of the moratorium because it wants the land to truly find its master and that the peasants will become this full-fledged host in accordance with very quality full-fledged laws. And I think that time will show the real power of motive in this vote. What's more, I think that that year that it is is a serious test for the Supreme Council. I think that for my faction, for the "Julia Tymoshenko Block" and for all who believe in a successful Ukraine, that means that we must now, with the right of honour, make quality implementation of land laws through the Supreme Council. Earth reform is just the first tray, the front and the pension reform, and the military reform, and these reforms will show who really wants to change and who wants to preserve them. And I think it's not really conservation that the country needs, it's a breakthrough in quality reform, quality laws. And my faction will work on this successful legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u7	So far you don't have a faction to say mine, ours. Kozemyakin and Calchenko pass on the word to Tomenko. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, I would like to draw attention to two very important problems facing society today. The first problem is housing-communal tariffs. And I'd like to say that, of course, we're all happy to have a warm winter, and I think that should make our citizens happy and enjoy it. Because I am convinced that the government and parliament will finally decide to discuss this problem, because there was some fear of always discussing it, and, of course, reviewing tariffs in the direction of reducing them. Because it's obvious that for more than a month now, the government and the local authorities, who planned other housing and utility costs, for energy, for gas, spend less on order. I think it was fair and proper to consider this factor. And our faction has either proposed or in the form of parliamentary hearings, we're ready in the form of a council to bring together representatives of local governments, and not publicly, the vice-premier has criticized the local authorities, that they don't know how to recalculate subsidies, which was the only decision of the local, executive and central authorities. And for society to know that the economy on their wages and pensions is not going to be the government and the government, and the authorities respect their society and their people, and they're willing to take into account the climate factor in order to significantly reduce housing services throughout Ukraine. I'm not talking about space like this in Kiev, it's a separate topic. I am now speaking on average across Ukraine, where a clear view of housing services and tariffs should be in the direction of reduction. Our faction proposes this initiative to take the government. If the government isn't ready to do that, we'll be initiating this serious conversation in Parliament. As I return to yesterday’s discussion, I would like to respond to some of the emphasis of the earth’s discussion that has been made in the media. Last night, I was surprised that there were people on the president's team who thought Ukrainian land could be sold like milk. That scared me a little bit, to be honest. And I think it's a coincidence of some kind or a mere concoction, because I'm absolutely convinced that, unfortunately, we have a land that is the only value and only value that has not yet been sold in this country. So the position of our faction was clear and clear. So we're officially trying to explain once again that we're not going to be able to create chaos in the land market today, fortunately, in just a few parts of the Kyiv region. If no decision had been made yesterday, it meant that this chaos would have reigned around all of Ukraine’s district centers, so that you would understand. And this may not happen if Parliament works over the course of the year. I believe that the historic mission of Parliament is not just those laws on land cadastre, on land market, on rent, but that the entire method of possible sale and operation of land should be completed by Parliament in a year. This means that our bill, which we have voted on, on the obligation to sell objects with land, must take effect. This means our bill, which has not yet been voted on, and the faction has developed the obligation of land auctions, has to be voted on because today, as you know, the discussion on the Kiev budget has been so. At first, the Czernovecki team and most of them suggested that they would charge up to 600 million dollars from the ground and only under our influence. It's the price of two playgrounds in the center of Kiev. So I think that without real land laws and the real procedure to decide this, abuse will continue. And our faction is ready to join in its own legislative work. Another very important moment that worried me about the media yesterday. I want as a citizen and as one of the leaders of the faction to turn to our peasants and say, one year you can hold your property certificates and not sell to those people who convince you that they'll be cheaper in a year. There are people in the session room who headed the State Property Fund in the days of Leonidas Kuchma and Lazarusenka, who once issued property certificates to Ukrainian citizens. And that's what happened, you know. So I would like these people not to lie to the peasants again and tell them that property certificates should be sold today for nothing. I ask our peasants once again to last this year, because when there's a civilised market, and when there's normal legislation, these certificates can be sold to the ground at a higher price and at least part of what you've earned on this earth. Trying to create chaos on the land market yesterday, I think, is stopped. But it will not be stopped if the judicial authorities and the system of authority today do not stop the lawlessness that is being created in the local council system. I think it is also necessary for our analysis to make sure that the auction of the everlasting land that is in Kiev finally stops so that we do not sell the land under the nursery in Kiev. So I'm sure we made the right decision yesterday and congratulations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u9	Vladimir Yavorowski, please. After him, Scoobenko. Please, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u10	Vladimir Yavorowski, faction of "The Yulia Timoshenko". The festivals pass by, and the awake ones pass through our daily troubles. I would like, my fellow Members, to set perhaps some last points in explaining the position of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” during yesterday's vote. My colleagues who spoke before this, quite pedanticly, have placed a lot of emphasis, and by joining them, I would like to say some of my personal motivations, which is why I voted yesterday in favour of overcoming the President's veto. I'm one of those politicians who, back in 89, during the first real elections that took place in Ukraine, this is an election to the Soviet Parliament, and I spoke publicly about the fact that in Ukraine the land must become private property. I explained to people that one of the political forces that, in the early 20th century, took advantage of the idea of private property to the ground, won and won the revolution. But after later turning a peasant into a proletarian, she committed suicide, and we know what she ended up doing, and if she didn’t finish, we know what she was going to do. Period. I also want to answer those who are here from this rostrum who say that the President of the Anti-Ukrainian, he, you know, you want to sell Ukraine there and that kind of thing is absolute shullery. I support the President in wanting a normal, civilized market for land. But one thing is to want it, and the other is to create it. So I'm absolutely convinced that today, if we're talking about shadow markets and so on, I want to remind you that this is about the Kyiv area, this is about areas around the district centers where today the price of land is really very high. But this does not apply to the deep areas of the Black Earth of my Winnitzka and to anyone else. I also want to say that if we didn't beat the President's veto yesterday, there are people today who have enough money to buy Donbas, there are people today from another political power who are ready to buy my Winnitzkin, I mean the soil. And then you don't have to go to Severodonec, and then everything will be in place -- there will be people who will own the whole region. That's why I'm convinced once again, but just to calm down today, let's give it a round of applause: oh, how wise we are yesterday, we overcame the President's veto, let's move on. I am convinced that every single one of us, national deputies with a conscience, should not live peacefully. We have to create a market this year, create a legislative basis for this, so that that uncle in the village will absolutely understand that tomorrow no one will come to him there, he will count him down, and that he will know that his land has an cadastral assessment, he knows how much a hectare or a hundred of his land costs, he knows that there will be a market, that there will be a tender, that there will be a competition, that he can go there and sell this land. Because, I say again, you don't have to make any tragedy out of it. It seems to me that there were different motivations for these votes: perhaps the communists had other people, but the other people were -- but it happened in a way that we did a very good and intelligent thing. And I think we shouldn't discuss this any more – we need to do legislation again and all of this wild agrarian field, which is to be filled with legislative acts. And the second question that I would like to address as the head of the Committee on Culture and Spirituality. Dear Society, I am very concerned, and I think that many of my colleagues, regardless of their political views, are also concerned about many of the things that are happening in Ukraine. But I'm just going to say one thing about what the media brought to us yesterday. We are unique, perhaps without any other nation in the world and on the planet, our historical monuments. One of them is the Kiev-Pecher Lavra. No one else has that, I'm not talking about her spiritual value anymore, I'm not talking about our ancestors who walked from Donbassa, from Kirovgrady, wherever, walked here for forgiveness. What we saw yesterday. Well, listen, if we call ourselves conditionally, be a decoratively civilized state, so that's what happens when a national museum, a national monument is captured by pops, excuse me, disguised as a bunch, I don't know if it's an ash, because I don't believe that priests could take our museums. And, you know, we're all gonna keep quiet about this today! These things are unacceptable! We don't have to lose. I want to tell you that the situation in Ukraine is abnormal: we have three laurels -- three spiritual centers; they all belong to the same patriarch. That's very foolish. I'm not saying that today you have to make some sharp moves on this issue, this is a very delicate question. But once again, I want to speak to the authorities: well, if we're not able to protect our museums, our memories that are, if the priests are starting to take them, I'm convinced that it's unreasonable and that's unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u11	John Bondarczuk gives the word to Bogchuk. Please, Basil.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable deputies! Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. I understand that today the issue of land was convenient, and some voted yesterday because it was supposed to be, and others to show the "buddy mother" to the President. As socialists, we stood, stood, and stood that the earth should be the property of the Ukrainian people. But aside from the earth, there are hundreds of references to my name and other important questions. Today, tens and thousands of Ukrainian citizens are residents of hostels that are once owned by large businesses. Today, they have become private VATes, VATes, and so forth, and in dormitory ghettos. Quite often, without light, without heat, without water, people live on a real human day in which they are born and die, having birthdays and weddings. For some of these Ukrainian slum dwellers, life has become a catharsis, especially when the so - called owners have come to include these dormitories in statutory backgrounds, and today they take one place and start throwing people out into the streets. Today, every floor, every corridor, is used by executives who are backed up by militia equipment. There is a struggle for every square meter of housing, despite the fact that today it is the constitutional right of every citizen to housing. And they're defending their very right. The State Property Fund and its head, Valentina Seminouk, have quite rightly defined the position of maintaining the law and the requirements of citizens for obtaining ownership of this residence. In fact, we saw Kuchma sell state property in our eyes. We see Yushchenko selling Ukrainian land today. And people are fighting for a square meter of housing. Here's the Ukrainian reality. These are the people who are now outside or below the poverty line, where this is the last thing that's left of a twenty-thirty-year job. I'm talking about this, about the Ternopile Combin factory, about the collectives of the "Texterno" production association, the sugar mills of the Ternopile plant, the "Agrobud" group, and so much about Ukraine. We must uphold the constitutional rights of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u13	Thank you. Yes, please, one minute is a replica of the Communist faction Tuckenko. The faction was mentioned in three performances. One minute is a replica. Don't shout. The factions come from the factions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u14	Dear friends, I asked for one minute, just like yesterday and today I was not allowed to speak. But I wanted to say something. Let's understand one thing, in the Constitution, the 13th and 14th articles say that the earth is universal property. Doesn't that make sense? That Kuchma raped the Supreme Council in October 2001 by adopting the code for which we are fighting today. Why the man who drank this nation in 10 years, the industry, drank the agro-industrial complex, today wants us to distribute the land to the invaders for free. You might think, 47 million people left, 16 million people got pies. 30 million what? Not Ukrainians? 30 million what, they don't own this land? Is the silhouette the entire space of life? We have 602,000 miles [602,000 km] of Ukrainian territory, 41 million saltlands, 34 million ore land, no more expensive than that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u15	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u16	Friends, I think the first president was wrong. The second president is not right at all, and today's president is not the President, he's a person who thinks that Ukraine can be sold.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u17	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the performances are over. Most of the time we touched, and each of the speakers talked about yesterday’s problem of overcoming the veto. I think we did the right thing, now the President's decision. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. We were to hear a preliminary report from the interim commission of inquiry into the violation of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies, but unfortunately, already the third or fourth head of the commission, the national deputy of Skin is making a motion for the transfer of this report. In this regard, I would like to remind you, therefore, of our July 25, 2006, ruling on the establishment of an interim commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the investigation of violations of the rights of Ukrainian national deputies. The seventh paragraph of this decree states: “The report of the interim commission of inquiry on the work performed shall be heard no later than three months after the date of the adoption of this decree. I remind you that the decision taken in July 2005 is not ready, that is why, and in view of the fact that other commission heads are asking us to move quite often, we are not ready, we are not ready, I do not prepare, I suggest that at the beginning of the next session we return to the analysis of the activities of all the temporary commissions of inquiry and make decisions. Those who did not report in due time eliminate their activities as those that unfortunately do absolutely nothing. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act is under consideration. [[new editor]] Registration number 2596. Reported by John’s Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Natalia Ivanovna. Prepare Kazakov from the committee. Please, Natalia Ivanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! You will be given a new edition of the Employment Act. The need for the adoption of this law is primarily due to the fact that the Act on Employment, which was adopted in 1991 almost 16 years ago, was designed to implement the employment strategy of the initial phase of market relations and mainly to provide social protection for registered unemployed people during the period of economic crisis and mass unemployment. The deepening of economic reforms, including the transition to the stabilization phase and the economic growth of the private sector of the economy, the existence of different forms of ownership, the development of competitive relations, the freedom of entrepreneurship and the free choice of employment, require the implementation of adequate public policies and the application of effective mechanisms of government regulation not only of individual elements but also of the entire work cycle, including professional training and all the components of economic activity of the population. In addition, with the adoption and implementation of the Law on Stately Compulsory Social Insurance for Unemployment of 1 January 2001, 27 of the 35 articles of the Act on Employment in force need to be amended. To the inadequacy of the current law to the realities of the labour market, to the needs of the economy in labour-resourced security, to the need for legalization of employment, to the strengthening of motivation for work, people’s deputies, local self-government bodies, employers, and the public have repeatedly stressed. In fact, the current Employment Act has gradually lost the status of a major state act called for to ensure the creation of an effective legal field on population employment regulation. The project sets out the objectives, basic principles and orientations of public employment policies that are based on the priority of ensuring full productive and freely chosen employment. A system of government administrations is defined, including the appropriate powers of the Cabinet of Ministers, central and local executives, and local authorities. The bill establishes a list of the categories of employed population that meet the market conditions for the functioning of the economy. In particular, employment status has been defined for categories of persons who provide work on their own, including members of individual farms. Both basic employment guarantees, the right to choose a profession, a type of activity, a prohibition of discrimination in the field of employment and admission to work, and additional for individual categories of citizens who are unable to compete on equal terms in the labour market, including those with disabilities. In particular, article 15 of the bill provides a modern, more effective mechanism for the quota of jobs for enterprises, with the number of workers between 20 and 50 in one job, more than 50 in more than 2 per cent of the total number of jobs against the current 50 per cent quota of jobs. There are rules governing interstate labour migration and social protection of Ukrainian citizens who carry out work outside the country, as well as the use in Ukraine of the work of foreign citizens, the order of activities of state institutions that provide services in the labour market. In line with the current requirements of the labour market and international legislation, the categories of unemployment, work, registration and unemployment registration, and so forth are defined. For example, article 41 of the bill, along with the general definition of suitable work, provides specific features for the definition of suitable work for unemployed people seeking employment after a six - month break in employment, for those under the age of 18 who are seeking employment for the first time without a job. For those who have not worked in the main profession for more than 12 months, for the disabled, for the long - term unemployed. There are also conditions under which job offers cannot be considered suitable for unemployed citizens. The bill defines the means of implementing State policy on the training of professionals and skilled workers in educational institutions of different forms of property according to the needs of the economy. State policy is being implemented to create jobs that will satisfy the interests of hired workers, employers, and the state. The bill contains rules on information security for the labour market, public and public control over the implementation of employment legislation. The adoption of the bill will increase the responsibility of employers for the use of labour, the role of social partnership in solving employment problems. The provisions of the bill correspond to the provisions of the Constitution, the Code of Laws of Ukraine on the work of taking into account the draft new code, the basic position of European Union legislation. The bill was heard on the Ukrainian Coordinating Committee to promote employment and found support for social partners. He was heard on a profile committee and was favored by the Supreme Council’s profile committee. The adoption of the bill will not require additional budgetary allocations in the current year. Since January 1, 2008, it is envisaged that the funding of the functions of the State Employment Service and the Executive Directorate of the Insurance Fund will be allocated, with the emphasis of both national deputies and social partners. The government will provide 1.8 million dollars for this budget allocation for the next year. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the bill in the first reading. The comments to the bill will be carefully worked in the working group with the involvement of social partners and taken into account in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u19	Thank you. Are there any questions? Please sign up. Yes, please, five minutes. The Barranian Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u20	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter, please tell me how the new law will still encourage people to work, because today's law does not. Well, let's say that if you get unemployment support, could you, like, clean up a cemetery in a village, fence a fence somewhere near a kindergarten, or a budget area that serves? Unfortunately, we don't have that today. The following question. People work, well, in the immediate frontier, they work in Kiev for construction, they work there in cities, and at the same time, it counts today that it's unemployed and it gets some support. So what I'm saying is, if he's unemployed really and he can't find jobs, he needs to be supported by the state. But with the support of his state, he must also work on these funds. How this law today foresees such an incentive to the work of someone who lost his job yesterday, and we know that there are other cases that simply buy certificates and deal with unemployment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u21	Thank you for asking. Honourable National Deputies, a new edition of the Employment Act, set out measures that strengthen the responsibility of unemployed citizens and provide for the following measures. First of all, the unemployed must constantly meet three conditions throughout the period: not having a job; looking for, actively pursuing, and promoting their employment; and being prepared for employment. The bill provides for a monthly re-registration, which is not currently available. The law provides that if an unemployed citizen refuses to work properly, he may be out of work; he may be deprived of unemployment benefits. If penalties are applied to the unemployed, fines are also applied when re-applicable and registered. As for the issue that you've raised before you've activated the participation of the unemployed in public works. This is also provided for by this law. By the way, it's a pro.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u22	Thank you, Natalia Ivanovna. Please note that you always have one minute to answer. Insomnia Boris, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u23	Please pass on the word to Vizier.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u24	Violent microphone
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u25	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. I'm right here, Mrs. Natalia. I have one question so that we don't use good intentions to pave the way to where we usually end up, because the general phrases we've been talking about, and, really, they're present in this law, we're not talking about major flaws in general. Let's take a look at it now. One and a half years now, women under 55 years of age, men under 60 years of age, now they can take advantage of that right. They don't have that right in this law, and I'm afraid this category of people is going to be overboard. We have a lot of pain for the peasant, but now we can make them all, like they have a job, they have a piece of land, and they can make themselves a piece of bread on that piece of land, and we also say that they are all working, that they have a job and therefore they can't stand on the market. So I have a question. Not to the end.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. Dear People's Deputies! First. I want to say that the Supreme Council is already scheduled for the year to see a suspension of the early retirement rate. I want to tell you that every year more than 40,000 unemployed people have used this norm and the expenses of the pension insurance fund, which is not exactly the insurance norm of this law, are over 270 million dollars and thus we cannot increase the amount of unemployment assistance. Sadly, this rule, which in the face of mass unemployment, made sense to exist. Now, in conditions where we're short of skilled labour and the carriers of the very skilled labour force are people of that age, in many cases there's abuse in assigning that kind of pay. But people who are really unemployed before retirement will not lose their social assistance. For persons before retirement, there are twice the number of years of unemployment benefits.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u27	Oleg Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u28	Madam Minister, I'm interested in the question: The Ministry of Labour, it is responsible for organizing the work so that all citizens work hard. We have seven million people working abroad, counting your statistics as unemployed or busy? Next up, we're bogeys, we're young. When you put an order in the organization of the work of citizens so that we all know where someone works, because your social assistance means nothing, those five tens of bracelets are all ashes dry to one place. There is a need for order and work to be done even through involvement in public work. Furthermore, Ukraine has no right to lose its labour resources because it is a threat to development! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u29	Thank you, Your Honor, for asking. I want to say that the Ministry of Labour alone does not define employment. Employers give jobs, employers create jobs. The central executive body of the Ministry of Labour is developing a policy, and this bill, which has been put into the room, is a testimony to the fact that we are taking care of this problem. The article first identifies three categories of unemployed and the second, which refer to the busy population, including the issue that you have been dealing with. Legally speaking, working citizens refer to the busy population, but most citizens who work not on legal grounds but illegally cannot refer to the occupied population, and this is the order given if you look at a survey of the State Committee of Statistics on Employment and Economic Activity of the Population and Unemployment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u30	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Head of the Committee on Social Policy and the work of Kozaków Igor Volodymyrovich. Please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u31	The honourable chairman, honourable colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the government as the first-ever draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Employment Act. The drafting and adoption of this bill is based on the need to improve the legal framework for employment, bring it into line with the current socio-economic development requirements of the country, the need to harmonise Ukrainian legislation with international legal norms. Employment is one of the most important socio-economic categories, because, on the one hand, it provides the production of a gross national product, the basis of the vitality of human society, and on the other, it reflects the need for self-implementation through participation in community service. Worldwide, the very level of employment is an indicator of social processes, stability and confidence in tomorrow’s country. Fuller and more efficient employment is achieved through government regulation. It should be noted that the project under regulation is one of the priority areas for the adaptation of legislation as defined in the Ukrainian Law on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union legislation. The project reflects the main realities of the use of labour in society and, taking into account the changes in the economy, places new emphasis on the regulation of employment, namely, the first legislative purpose of public employment policies is to create conditions for full, productive and freely chosen employment and reduce unemployment. In combination with increased access to market information, the work is intended to update the professional orientation of the population as a condition to increase motivation for employment and prevent population retention. It protects the population from discrimination in employment in terms of the extent to which international legislation is applicable, regulates employers' rights to professional and professional choice of workers, which, in the context of changes in modern technology, imposes new demands on job applicants and motivates people to improve their competitiveness in the labour market, is introduced by means of consolidation at the legislative level of integration of persons with limited physical and mental capacity into society. Determining employment guarantees for this category of persons, which in turn will contribute to the development of socially responsible businesses. The legal status of the entities that provide services in the labour market and monitor their activities more closely in order to prevent human trafficking and to protect job seekers from inefficient providers of this kind of service. Reviewed by taking into account recent trends in the labour market and the economics of employers’ obligations to participate in the implementation of public employment policies, to encourage them to use legal work, and to create proper working conditions for workers. The rules that run counter to the Ukrainian Act on mandatory State social insurance for unemployment have been deleted, which has in fact not been in force since 2001, although they have been contained in the current edition of the Ukrainian Employment Act. The draft law establishes a list of occupation categories that meet the market conditions of the economy of Ukraine and contribute to the development of active employment policies. The draft law introduces the article “Creating Jobs”, which legislatively defines state policy in the field of employment and helps to satisfy the interests of employed workers, employers, the State. Among the mechanisms for regulating employment in the draft law are individual articles that provide for labour migration regulations for the employment and social protection of Ukrainian citizens who work outside of Ukraine and for the use of foreign nationals in Ukraine. There are rules in the bill that make it easier for employers to quota jobs for socially vulnerable groups and standards that encourage them to enforce employment legislation, to ensure equal opportunities for women and men. Conclusion. The scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is positive and is geared towards supporting the legislative initiative of the government, organising the legal provision of productive employment for the population in Ukraine, under which the bill is proposed to be based on the comments made. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Social Policy and Work reviewed the bill on 13 December 2006 and decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the basis of the first part of article 109 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u32	Thank you. Will there be questions? Let's sign up. Yes, please, four minutes, Bubble.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u33	Please pass the word to Shibku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u34	Vitaly Shibko, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u35	Thank you, Stepanovich. Vitaly Shibko, socialist faction. Igor Vladimirovich, I wanted to hear your opinion personally. How do you feel about this bill, which I think we're going to vote on in the first reading, to introduce some special chapter that will regulate the activities of middle-sized firms that set up our citizens abroad. Because today, unfortunately, they are not defined by their activities. To this day, we have no responsibility for those who work abroad. They're just being pushed out by firms. And then the state, as an embassy, other representations abroad, assumes responsibility as to how to be with those citizens with whom something has not happened. So I'd like to hear your personal opinion on how we're going to proceed with this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. My personal opinion as the head of the subcommittee must certainly exist in this bill. Of course, by the way, I'm sure, and hopefully I will, after all, that we will take the basis of this bill, and already, in finalizing it, we have the right to exist, well, from the realities that are now in force, let's say, the circumstances and our citizens who are working abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u37	Please, Stoyan Alexander.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u38	The Honourable Igor Volodymyrovich, well, a speech by John's Natalia Ivanovna, Deputy Minister, and your, co-report, really showed the need to adopt this law, and more so that our committee supported it. But I want you to specify the first position. The people in the village have a docking area. They don't work anywhere anymore. These people count as busy, or they should still be accounted for as busy as they are. And the second. Businesses are being shut down, and workers are being laid off at the initiative of business managers. Is this law designed to protect these people? Because according to the Code of Laws on work on this basis, this is article 44 of the Code, which provides for the protection of people, or employment. Whether these two positions are prescribed in these changes to the Employment Act. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u39	Thank you. Alexander Nikolayevich, well, we've already held public hearings, parliamentary hearings, return requests, committee hearings, these questions have been raised. I think that the first and second issues have to be found in this bill. I think when we prepare for second reading, we will take into account the proposal. I would like to say more that we have sent, our committee has sent this bill to the Regional Councils, and as far as I know, 10 district councils have already responded to the proposals and made their comments on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u40	Boris Bespali.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u41	Please pass the word to Eugene Gorgen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u42	Eugene Górnik, “Our Ukraine” faction. Dear reporter, do you think there is any difference between the terms “work” and “employment”? And in drafting this bill, well, how did the government figure out that work in their support economy gives each member of the family not what is a minimum of living, but a minimum wage to get rid of it completely from the unemployed market and to take away any livelihood? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u43	Thank you for asking, my respectable colleague! Indeed, the issue of agriculture has to be. He is, let's say, imperfect in this bill, so if your proposals are in this direction, we will be ready to consider it on the committee and we will take them into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u44	Thank you, sit down, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Please record from the faction. Now I ask you to sign up, regardless of the factions that want to participate. Let's take 20 minutes. Please, Sergey Ribuk, the “Regions” faction. To prepare Baranovsky, some of the world's men are coming.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to draw your attention to this bill. And it's quite right that the government prepared it and made it a priority, because it is. And I express my impression and vision after a thorough introduction of this bill, that it is also a quality bill. I just want to explain the part where the most conflict arises and may raise doubts about the people's deputies regarding employment in agriculture and agricultural production. There are 15.5 million people living in the village, 8 million of whom are disabled, and almost 8 are working. They work in agriculture, in various companies, in companies, in private enterprises, 3 million 922 thousand. And what does this 4 million do? working people who believe they're unemployed. These 4 million, they work in their individual agriculture, where two or more hectares of land are produced by two thirds of all agricultural production in our country. And so far we can't say that they're busy, that they're working hard physically with the pitchforks and with the underwater, at best, with a horse or a worn-out tractor. Let's, first of all, honor the farmer's work and say thank him by this law for his work, it'll be fair, it'll be a respectable attitude to the peasant work. So I want to present you, distinguished national MPs, here's what to remind us of the difference between sublime household in a village where cattle, cows and porcupines, and between individual rural farming, which is established by law, which is accepted by us, about individual farming. Another thing is, if we, and we have to do this, so that the members of private agriculture, as the draft law, their legal status, are in the category of employed persons, and then after that, we'll have to set up a law on individual agriculture in accordance with this law that we're going to adopt. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u46	Thank you. Please, Baranowski passes the word to John Bondarczuk from the faction of the Socialists. Get ready for school.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u47	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. The need for the adoption of a new Ukrainian Employment Act is obvious and is unquestionable. This is necessary to bring employment legislation into line with modern realities. After all, there is now a law in force that was passed in 1991. This is one of the few, unfortunately, laws of Ukraine that not only worked but also played a positive role in market relations. It is based on the creation and operation of a modern and sufficiently effective State Employment Service. However, since the adoption of the law in Ukrainian society, there have been radical changes in productive power and productive relations. This could not help but call for changes to the Employment Act. Overall, since 1991, such changes have been made 19 times that could not have been without the general structure of the law. In addition, several other laws have been passed during this time, along with the basic law, which perform regulatory functions in the field of employment. As for the new realities, they were mentioned. If the law in force today, as it were, is mainly a paternalist ideology, then the law that is proposed should maximize the incentives for our fellow countrymen to seek employment, to initiate the occupation of the population. What about the comments that came in? They will certainly be taken into account, including the comments made by the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations. But I don't think they should be the basis for rejecting the bill, because they only touch on the end positions, not the general ideology of the draft law. In preparing the bill for the following readings, comments can be taken into account. The final dot will be put by the Supreme Council by a vote in the session room on the second occasion as necessary, and in the third reading. In particular, I will point out that in the process of working on the bill, our committee not only held hearings for the participation of representatives from the regions, but also appealed to the heads of the administration and district councils to make their comments to the draft law in order to take the opinion as much as possible from the bottom. Such proposals have reached more than 50, indicating the interest of the local authorities in the legislative settlement of employment problems taking into account the current situation. All of these will be taken into account, systematized, and during the second reading of the bill, we will report on the response to these observations. In general, I ask the MPs to support the bill in the first reading, as the relevant decision was taken by the Committee on Social Policy and Employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u48	Yes, please, Andrew School, the faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Get ready for Vyziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u49	Dear national MPs, distinguished chairman, distinguished radio audiences, TV sets! Andrew Shkull, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. I would like to stress that the bill is truly, indeed, quirky and strange, and I would like to emphasize, oddly enough, that the government is the author of this bill. Because basically governments and this particular one are the drafters of those bills that serve the government itself and work for the government. And this law as an exception, I think it will work for the population, for the people. Because, in fact, it's going to improve, it's not modernizing to put up a twig, it's a very tall bill. To be honest, how every serious bill has its benefits and its downsides. Plus, we can say that there are: additional guarantees for individual population categories, including promoting employment of persons with limited physical and mental capacity. This is necessary, by the way, because such guarantees should be given by the basic law itself, not by additional legal or legal acts that. The authors of which are both Kabmin and individual deputies of the Supreme Council. But we've forgotten about another category of population it's actually already up here in this room, it's people who work abroad. We call them workers, but it's very important and very serious, and it's almost an unprotected category of workers. Yes, we might say, they create benefits in other countries. But on the other hand, the money earned works for the state. So social protection and social guarantees, I'd like you to make this absolutely clear, have to be respected. And in the first reading, we will support this law, provided that this category of workers is added to the list of persons who are protected by this law. In general, the quality point here is that separate articles are separate: vocational education. Of course, the term is fixed, but here we have to point out that it should not be some kind of profession or profession, but that professional reorientation of persons is not formal, but it's qualitative, because now we have the population service doing what you don't have to do, so go to computer courses. And computer courses teach because the computer is a two-part thing: the keyboard and something else glows in it. In the end, an expert learns to play computer games. So it's got to be a professional reorientation of a person who has an education that's not needed, and a profession that's not in time right now has to be reoriented. Therefore, in the first reading of this law, we can support it by taking those points into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u50	Please, Vyzewski, “Our Ukraine” faction. Get ready for Bespalloma.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u51	Vladimir Viezowski, “Our Ukraine”. Honorable Ukrainians, including national MPs! When we consider any law in this room, we ask ourselves: “What healthy trends in society do we want to support and how unhealthy do we have to limit?” As we look at the bill, we can say that there are quite a lot of positive things, because there has been a lot of water involved in the truth since 1991 and some things need to be adjusted. But again, I'm going back to those questions that the deputy minister didn't give me a positive, in my mind, answer. Because when it comes to the question now, a citizen in the event of a restructuring of an enterprise, in general, the liquidation of an enterprise must still take advantage of the current moment in law -- to retire for a year and a half, that bill does not provide for that. And to say that we're going to give this person twice as much pay, or maybe we should not change the good tradition that is now? We're going to expect that we're not going to be able to shrink, but we're going to be able to increase or we're going to be able to offer a similar job when we reorganize? Or he will retire peacefully with God. So let us not break good traditions. Next. Once again, we're in a lot of pain for agriculture, including allowing it, to those peasants who can't, like some businesses, with powerful legal firms, to withstand competition with raiders, we're letting them into a shadowy sale of land, because those raiders are already coming to them and they're tearing the land away, we're putting other conditions on them: you still have your land somewhere else, because it's still not needed, but just because you have it today, we're saying that you have a piece of bread, we're taking you off the market. And if this person worked in a farm for 30 years and no longer has the opportunity to organize a job in the country, and we say to him, "You have land, so you have a piece of bread, so you can't stand on the job market." I think it's very unfair, especially to Ukrainian agriculture, really, as has been said here, to bearers of Ukrainian traditions, and that point should also be removed. Next thing you know, I'd like to check it out. It's probably worth noting another point, which is that it's kind of strange in the law that there's a position that looks like this: to anticipate some funding for the development of the information and analysis system. Each year, 100 million people contribute to this service. In a year, notice, just for this point. If it's still prescribed in the law, they'll use it forever. Thus, the faction is expressed in favour of calling this law into practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u52	Boris Unburnt, please. It's Eugene Gorenik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u53	Boris Bespali, "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, this bill, it's really solid, it's thick like this book, and there, of course, can't be anything useful. So it is clear that, as one of the colleagues said, there are positives in it. But it's not a positive concept at all, but it's that I'm going to allow myself to quote another colleague: "This law aims to maximize the incentive to find a job." Well, if you translate it in plain language, it's a law on how to artificially reduce the number of unemployed people on paper, that is to say, those working people who don't have the means to exist, and they have enough means to exist. I will remind all of us that according to the Constitution, the basic human income must be such as to provide its subsistence minimum. And this, of course, is not there. And since this is the general concept of this law, as a number of people lead to their lack of means of livelihood, “Our Ukraine” will not support this law and will not vote for it, but, in fact, as my colleague Vladimir Vizevski said, it is appropriate to direct it to the government for further work. The second flaw in this law is the continuation of the attack on the village. What happens is that everyone who works in a private farm is considered to be sufficiently secure. Well, even if it's a pretty rich farm, there might be a lot of people there, and for every person there might be a lack of security. This is not at all, and it tells us that the law was probably written on the Cave Hills, where the village is not even visible in the binoculars. Now, what's going on, because it's not the only one. Yesterday, for example, peasants were deprived of the freedom to manage their lands, that is, the land of farming was actually made by land of shadow and spread the land’s shadow market. And in a year, by the way, when everyone repents, those who beat the President's veto yesterday, because there will be no land market, this Supreme Council, of course, will not accept the normal Earth cadastre by this coalition, and so on, that will be the land market, for their purposes, when the cancer whistles. Because this law contains such systemic flaws as the invasion of the Ukrainian village and the artificially depriving people of unemployment who do not have any other means of subsistence, our faction suggests that this law should be sent for work, as I call upon you to do, honourable colleagues. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u54	Eugene Gorenik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u55	Eugene Gorenik, faction of our Ukraine. I want to remind you of the pre-election promises of some parties that are part of the anti-crisis coalition. In particular, the Region Party: “Every working citizen has a job and a job that ensures a decent life of the family and the opportunity to save. ” I am so aware that the government of the anti - crisis coalition has embarked on the fulfillment of its preelection promises, and in particular on the provision of employment, income, family dignity, and savings for the future. But they're offering to do it in a fairly original way, which is to eliminate unemployment, in fact, by excluding a category such as unemployment, considering any employment activity as employment, and above all, in the agricultural sector, where it's defined that in a subliminal economy, individual farming farmers are able to make the money that corresponds to this program. And that's why peasants, when they're not allowed to market the land or create the conditions for agricultural production in the country, are deprived of the possibility of even getting any least help. But the flaws of this bill are not only in the way of the village that restores its power of attorney but also in other systemic errors. In practice, the bill does not recognize the mass layoff of employees in the liquidation of the enterprise and the category of employees these workers do not fall under. The bill also eliminates the right of pensioners to work, more faithfully, to receive a pension before they reach retirement age if they have adequate employment. I think that this way of improving people's lives will be completely impossible today, and as a result of those systemic mistakes that are present in this law, it can't be accepted even in the first reading it has to be sent for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u56	Please, Bondarczuk was to be there right now. He's giving Baranowski his word. They exchanged words. Please have two minutes, Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u57	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. We have carefully worked out the law in faction and consider it possible to adopt it in the first reading. We agree with the many comments made today by our colleagues in various factions. But this law, in our view, is a fairly powerful step forward in order today among the categories of people who do not always have a job and according to their support by the state. We come from someone who doesn't talk about different slogans, that it's an attack or not an attack, that there should be order in everything in the state. And the law should not stimulate unemployment. The law must do everything possible to enable a person to have this job and to earn a living, not to stimulate unemployment, as is the norm of today’s law. I would like to refer to article 44 of this law. I asked that question. I'd like to address this more systematically, in my opinion, what we need to do. The 44th article speaks of the possibility of voluntary participation in social work. In doing so, it foresees that the local boards of administration should make a deal with him, and he will work at community work accordingly, earning at least the minimum wage. I ask the village council, she has the money for such volunteer work, to make deals and to fund these people. It doesn't. And the law does. What, then, does the court say to the person concerned about the village council? I'm asking a question in another plane. If a person lives in the same center, and he has no job, he will receive adequate unemployment assistance. Why is it at this cost that she gets the help she gets, it can't be there, let's say it's defined by the standard, whether it's 10 days, or it's 15 days, or it's 8 days, but it has to work on the public works that determine it, so that's the right advice, the right authority. And so we're not going to be giving a little bit of food, but we're going to be busy. This will allow today's cemetery to be orderly so that we have less garbage in the streets so that all our children's institutions, schools can be arranged accordingly, not looking for tomorrow who will do the proper work. Therefore, I think it is necessary to focus once again on what is making the law much better, and today the legislative framework will be much better to provide people with jobs and adequately support them financially. And we can vote on that law, and we need to vote in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u58	Thank you. Yes, please, 1 minute, Ivanova for incarceration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u59	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you once again to endorse the bill positively and, in addressing the faction “Our Ukraine”, I would like to point out that the bill, its ideology and editorial work has been carried out by governments, previous governments and, including, the visa of the Minister of Labour, today's leader of the “Our Ukraine” faction. I can't agree that the law doesn't define mass liberation. Note, article 36 of the Law defines the regulation of mass liberation and additional guarantees in the exercise of mass liberation. As far as personal farming is concerned. It is not that people have the right to land; they are deprived of unemployment. The point is that people who have identified the main type of agricultural activity in a private agricultural holding with the right to contract are entitled to employment status because they have the right to help low-income families, to help them, to receive subsidies. And when we say that this right is going to be when it's registered unemployed and it only gets help for 12 months, and the rest of the time when people work without official employment status. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once again to take note of these arguments and support the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u60	The discussion is over, we will be determined. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Employment Act. [[new editor]] Bill number 2596. Please vote. [[11:28:58]] For 347 Thank you, the decision is made. We passed the law as a basis, let the committee work on the second reading. We're looking at drafts of the Seaports Act. Registration numbers 2143 and 2143-1. Bill number 2143, National Deputy Cmyr Sergey Mihajlovich, please. Prepare the raven.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! The project proposes to determine the legal principles for the creation, development and operation of seaports. The legal status of the port is now fixed and regulated in part by the Code of Merchandise Shipping, partly by other regulations. In doing so, the majority of domestic ports remain outside the legislative framework. The shipping port is one of the most important components of the transportation complex in Ukraine, where ships, passengers, both internal and international connections are performed. Today, the port is not only the most important transport hub in the network of connections but also the node of economic and legal connections and the intersection of all modes of transport. Therefore, it is necessary at the legislative level to regulate the issues of the system of government regulation in the field of port activities of their functions and competences. Determining the status of the watershed and port areas, delimiting port functions with regard to economic activity and State control, and ensuring the safety of navigation. Market conditions are in order to maintain the operation, upgrade, and construction of new facilities that are subject to strategic objectives, social protection of port workers, and port operators. Today, two projects on seaports have been proposed in view of the national MPs. The chief scientific and expert administration of the Supreme Council's apparatus noted both projects. Instead, it proposes that both bills be adopted in the first reading. Much of both projects are identical. So I'm going to focus on the differences between these projects. The law of my authorship provides for the formation, consolidation, of public administrations of ports. The law establishes that the main tasks and functions of merging public administrations of ports are: first, to organise the efficient use of State property in ports; second, to develop and agree in an orderly manner on general strategic plans, on the technical and economic basis of development, reconstruction, modernization and technological alteration of sea terminals, transport and transhipment complexes in ports and other infrastructure objects of the port; third, to monitor the construction of port infrastructure objects, to participate in the work of State commissions on the selection of construction sites and the transfer of objects into operation; fourth, to implement the functions of contracting authorities in the construction of port infrastructures, to modernize and technologically re-establish the infrastructure of public ports; and to implement the operation of projects; fourth, to implement the administrative functions of the contracting authority in the construction of port, to renovate and to re-establish the infrastructure of public ports; to implement the administrative activities of the administrative sector; and to carry out the operation of the administrative activities of the administrative services of the port. The situation in the maritime transport market is evidence of increased competition from foreign ports in the Black Sea-Azova Basin, which are intended to take over the transit routes of Europe-Caucus-Asia. Thus, for example, in pursuit of the stated goal, the state-owned Rossmorport Union is planning to create a so-called ring of ports incorporating internal railway lines that carry out intermodal transports, which could lead to transit shipments from Ukraine's ports. Also one of the largest Black Sea port competitors in Ukraine, the “Constanta” port, which passes European land transit routes, increases transit volumes at an extremely high rate. [[Romania]] Therefore, the creation of a merger will enable the competitiveness of domestic seaports in the external market to be improved by technological refurbishment, modernization and upgrading of the technology of trans-shipment of traditional cargoes, by increasing the processing of transport means, by increasing the productivity of the work that will allow for increased international cooperation, I apologize, by involving additional cargo in Ukrainian ports, by increasing the availability of budgets, by improving the financial and economic situation of ports. The positive and social effect of creating a union, ensuring the implementation of a single innovation and investment policy, coordinating the work of all participants in the single logistics process, flexible tariff policy -- all of this has already been appreciated by the Cabinet of Ministers, which, by its order of 22 November of this year, has acknowledged concerted action towards the creation of the Ukrmorport State Concert, such as the positive effect of which the negative effects of limiting competition on social interests prevail. The main difference between an alternative project is that it provides for the dispersion of the operation of maritime terminals. It has been pointed out that maritime terminals can be either part of a management entity or a separate legal person of any kind of property. This concept of port development is contrary to the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers to set up the Ukrmorport State Concert on the basis of all the Ukrainian ports adopted at the meeting, at one of the meetings of our government. An analysis of the historical experience of the development of the world’s port economy shows that port management is carried out directly by the State in most parts of the world. This is the way the ports of Spain, Portugal, Singapore, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, and other countries operate. A similar form of port management is not accidental and is explained by the unwillingness of the State to release seaports from direct control in relation to their strategic significance. So please, honourable Members, support Bill 2143 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u62	Yes, will there be questions? Please sign up. Please, 6 minutes, Herman. Hanna Herman.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u63	I give you my word, Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u64	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u65	Dear colleague, Sergey Mikhailovich, I respect you very much as an agrarian, and I think that the porters led by Kosapczuk should be grateful that you initiated this law. It's absolutely necessary. But it's essentially a law on port operators and managers that you in this law allow all the property of the state to be leased and obtained fabled profits. We are saying that the State is an inefficient owner. Where do they get this kind of efficiency if they can put everything and make money on it? The concept must be that the waters and docks must be public. And we need to turn all the distributed docks into public property, and we need to put the land under the terminals, because without land, there will be no investment and no port development. And the last. The establishment of a development fund would limit the initiative.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u66	An honourable colleague, well, in his report, in principle, I said, and I noted that the main difference between an alternative project is that it provides for the dispersion of the operation of maritime terminals. Maritime terminals may be part of a management entity or may be a separate legal person of any form of ownership. In principle, it's a very controversial question that the state form of ownership is ineffective. In principle, I also said that very many countries have not yet given up on private property and are effectively operating ports in state ownership. And I think, on the contrary, when we have a centralized port management system, it's better to be there and make investments, and develop ports, and, we'll talk, that centralization will allow better port management. We're going to lose, we're going to talk at this point in our pool and the same Romania and the Russians.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u67	Please, Vladimir Boyko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u68	Vladimir Boyko. I have two questions. What is the point of creating another government that will bring nothing? Clearly, it was created. And the second question. What is the meaning of this law if a normally functioning port carries almost gold eggs to the State if it works for the State? After all, it's up to the leader who's in charge of the port. If things were to return in the first place today, the State today could have great money. This should include huge investments. Take, for example, the port of Mariupoli. Here are two questions, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u69	Ports are different. There are, indeed, ports that are huge ports, and which are indeed normally under development and so on. But we have some of those ports in Ukraine that, for various reasons, do not evolve as much as we would like. In principle, this law makes it possible to redirect part of the money to the development of such ports. And when the ports are centralized, when there is a single governance, we can compete with other countries more easily. Here is the main story of the bill. In principle, Ukrmorport, it's already been done in our country, let's say it worked. But you know, in the light of all the political developments, that a lot of money was being washed out of this structure, they went into politics and so on, these are already established facts. If this system is removed from politics, that's it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u70	Please, Pisarenko Valerius.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u71	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Dear reporter, tell me, please, really, we need to resolve these relationships today, but it seems strange to me that, despite what we're saying, ports should be state-owned and state-owned enterprises, it's strange that the bill is missing links to the fact that the seaport is a state-owned enterprise. And I'm also surprised that we're actually removing the port administration and letting it make its own money from the port itself. Is this not the first step towards privatizing Ukraine’s ports? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u72	On the contrary, our bill makes it absolutely clear that ports should be state property. And yet really, at some point, we're going to talk, maybe you're right, that really port somewhere, maybe we'll talk, he understands the situation more clearly in the port. But I think that's the advantage of that. What's centralized is that we're going to be able to introduce new investments into our ports, at the local level, but the port won't be able to, so big investments, because it takes a lot of money to develop the port. Perhaps only at the state level, at the Ukrmorport merger level, we can bring this money to our ports. And then they'll develop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u73	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word has the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications, George Borisovich Kruk. Please. Bill number 2143-1. And the committee's opinion on two bills.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u74	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. The modern seaport is an important transport hub, as already stated in this rostrum, the hub of economic and legal relations between all modes of transport. Today, there is a certain lack of regulatory framework for regulating port relations with all modes of transport and the State, as well as within the port itself, which is extremely negative in the operation of the port. Regrettably, conflicts in the maritime transport sector are regulated mainly by the Ukrainian Code of Merchandise Shipping, adopted in 1995 and developed on the basis of the practice established at the time of the Soviet Union, when all property was public, all ports, all shipping companies were public. Today, the maritime trading port, unlike the port 12-15 years ago, is operated by private shipping companies, port operators, stevedores and other private market participants in the maritime transport sector. There are thousands of legal disputes arising from imperfect legislation, respected by colleagues. At the moment, as has already been said, there are two bills before the Supreme Council. One that has now been reported, 2,143, by Cmyr and Mordovets; and the other, where the authors, 2143-1, by Kruk, Kruglov, Chukmasov. As a result of the comparison of both bills, it has been determined that they are similar in most articles. However, with regard to Bill 2143, it should be noted that, as the previous author had said, yes, the main difference was that the proposal to include in the law on seaports the integration of public administrations in article 11 and the Port Development Fund in article 18, in the view of the relevant committee, the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, a number of specialists, we had a special retreat in Odessa, where we had gathered all port managers to discuss the bill once again, and, of course, today's legislation, this is not the norm of the law. Establishment of associations, please form your own associations. There's an economic code today. By the way, this association has already been established by the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, a Ukrmorport concert was established by the Cabinet of Ministers, so I think this should not be reflected, this is not the main part of the bill. Also in Bill 2143, which has now been reported, it provides for a number of articles on the settlement of the functions of the sea port administration, the authority of the port captain, the organization of the State Lotzman service, the functions of the public hydrographic service, all of which are already addressed by the Code of Merchandise, in particular articles 85, 88, 89, 90, 91 and 92. With reference to Bill 2143-1, which I am currently reporting, it is largely in line with Bill 1358-d, which was carried out by the Professional Committee, the People's Deputies, the Marine Industry and the Marine Science, the Ukrainian European Legislative Advisory Centre of the European Union Commission, and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council in its previous meeting. The deputies of the last assembly remember when we reviewed the bill several times, and when it was postponed for re-first reading and, unfortunately, failed to accept it in the last assembly because the activities of the past assembly had actually ended. In accordance with article 19 of the bill, the management of public property at the port will ensure safe navigation, provided by the port captain. Despite the port administration being created in the face of the port manager, but the safety of navigation has always remained under the control and service of the port captain. So it remains in our bill. I could talk for a long time about maritime safety and maritime problems, and this has been said in comparison with many international ports and so on. Unlike the previous speaker, I am not an agrarian, I have been on the fleet for 45 years, including 8.5 years as head of the seaport, so it seems to me that it is just a little easier for me to be guided in this bill and, more so, I was the author of the previous bill. The profile committee, which is very important in this bill, has established a so-called whole property complex. What is a whole estate complex? This is what the previous speaker was asked to do today, those are positions that cannot be privatized. They cannot be privatized in this whole property complex. They cannot be privatized clearly; they are defined in the law. Hydro-structures cannot be privatized, approach channels cannot be privatized, railways cannot be privatized, port courts cannot be privatized, those that today are troubles and tradesmen in the Herson port. Many people here know if anyone is interested, I can tell you the details of this situation. Unfortunately, arriving at the Herson port, the practically Herson port now no longer exists as a state enterprise. If this law and article, which we say is a whole property complex that is not to be privatized, is clearly defined in our bill, this is no less important than the creation of an association than the establishment of a fund and so on. So the committee, including rent, you're right, including rent, yes, it's not privatized, it's not leaseable, it's not hydro-structure, well, I'll answer that if there's a question. The Committee on Transport and Communications, at its meeting, considered both bills and it was determined that the main purpose of the bill was to resolve legal relations related to the organization, operation of Ukrainian seaports and the provision of legal, economic, institutional and substantive issues in their activities. At the same time, the Committee proposes to adopt a bill on Ukrainian seaports 2143-1, in furthering the second reading, to take into account the positive aspects of Bill 2143, since Bill 2143-1 is more relevant to the legislative regulation of seaports. The same opinion and the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council, which proposes to adopt draft legislation as a basis. The Cabinet of Ministers, through the Ministry of Transport, has made proposals and a number of comments that need to be taken into account and I think they will be taken into account on second reading. In view of the above, the Committee invites the Supreme Council to adopt draft law on Ukrainian seaports No. 2143-1 as a basis and in furthering the second reading, to take into account the positive aspects of Bill 2143. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u75	Thank you. Will there be questions? Please sign up. Please, four minutes. Yavorowski Wolodymir.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u76	Vladimir Yavorowski, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. Dear co-conspirator! Thanks to our first president, Ukraine actually lost a fleet, a civilian fleet, you know that very well how much everything was sold out, scattered around the world, one for debt, the other you just sold out. I was in Odessa recently and had a conversation with Mayor Edward Gurwicz. He told me about the problem of the port of Odessa, which is, what the port is trying to do, it's already tight, it's narrow, it's around the city, Odessa. You're a professional, I'd like to hear your point of view, your view of solving this problem, because it's hanging over Odessa. Where's the exit? Stay at the old port or else maybe move somewhere else. Your vision?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u77	In order not to make mistakes, to avoid making mistakes in a city such as Odessa, which is the capital of the sea, we have made a retreat meeting of a special committee and have made a thorough examination of this so-called one. You won't call it a dispute, it's a business relationship between the mayor of the city and the port manager. I think that this conflict no longer exists; this problem is resolved; the port must develop on the one hand and the beaches in Odessa must exist on the other. Only they must be cleaner and, for this purpose, the port will provide for all necessary solutions in this regard. So the Gurvica can be calmed down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u78	Mikola Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u79	Yuri Borisovich, I support your desire to resolve a number of problems related to the operation of ports, the relationship between them and a variety of organizations. As far as this bill is going to solve another problem that is in shape, I would say that Ukraine is moving abroad, the image of Ukraine in the world, because in all the conflict situations where our ships or our sailors are in, the analysis is being carried out for citizenship. If there's a Ukrainian citizen there, we're in a scandal. I know that there's a lot of offshore companies out there and so on, they make port deals, and these offshore companies, of course, don't belong to the state of Ukraine. Would it be possible to settle this issue so that, for example, in these conflict situations, our institutions could influence these companies that recruit sailors for service?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u80	It is not a question of course that is not the norm of this law, but a very important and very important bill, a very important issue. Therefore, I think that, with regard to our seaports and this bill, it is all taken into account that citizens, not just ours, but citizens and other States, believe me, I can't count on words, but 80 per cent of the world's seaports, so I have to see and see their work. Under this scheme, 90 ports are now public ports around the world, 90 per cent of all ports, including those operated by styveridor companies, as is today in the Odessa port and as we have reflected in the work of our bill. Therefore, in answer to your question, I believe that today this law provides an opportunity for all citizens, including Ukraine, and those who come to us, and then we ratify the intergovernmental agreement and go to other States so that we can be equal rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u81	Please, Radkovsky passes the word Odarchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u82	Dear Yuri Borisovich, the ports are a highly cost-effective manufacturing sector and a very thin piece for various operations, schemes to transfer them to private hands. You gave the very right example of the Herson Seaport when, literally in a few days, a few days by signing a cooperation agreement was transferred to the administration of the entire property complex of the Herson Seaport, in spite of the desire of the labour force, leadership and so on. Does your project, your draft law, prevent such a decision from happening? Explain, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u83	Thanks for the vote. Because it is the Herson port, it is in a situation that is very and very difficult and can take years to correct. And the state's all that's been loaded for decades can leave immediately in a year or two. If today's Seaports Act were the one we're proposing, this outrage would not have occurred. Transferred to rent, which is clearly recorded here, has no right to transfer in our bill what is part of the entire property complex, the courts of the port of the fleet. There, four vessels are leased and leased under ridiculous conditions. Each fleet port ship generates $350,400 a year and rents $39,000 a year. How can this be judged? Therefore, this is all reflected and the entire property complex is clearly listed, starting with the seaport's hydrostructures, approach channels, deckers and so on, something that cannot be privatized and leased, including.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u84	Thank you, sit down, please. Is there a desire to discuss? Yes. Yes, please sign up for factions. Have a seat, Yuri Borisovich. Yes, who else would want it? Yeah, let's get ready for the performances after the break. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u85	Which was considered before the break. 15 minutes of discussion. Matthew's first. After him, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u86	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! That the Ports Act is necessary, I think there is no doubt about it and there is no doubt that it must be regulated by law. This is one species that has brought tremendous benefits to the State to date. Not a secret, these figures were called that 90 per cent of the world's ports are either public or municipal. And none of the States has issued a system of control over such enterprises. Amsterdam, New York, Romanian ports, Denmark, can be counted very much. What do we want with these laws, what do we do? What will we do if we accept these bills? In general, a very thorough analysis of the economic performance of each port needs to be made in order to avoid what is happening in the ports today. I'm not going to charge you with numbers right now, I can only say one thing: practically to date, these are high-cost productions that make huge profits. That's one side of the medal. But the other side of the medal. You try to enter the port, you try to transfer the goods, you try to organize work at the port so that it will benefit the user. That's a completely second question. What are we gonna get, we're gonna legitimize these bills? The draft law was the first to propose a unified structure. A second bill that proposes to open a fort from the inside. But he also proposes that one thing, next to the words “seaports”, should be removed from the word “State ports”. And we will lose control systems on the part of the State in both the first and the second cases. The first option we are offered. Yes, we can set up a structure like this today that is centrally managed from one source, from one body. But we are striking those ports that are today low-intensity, like the Berdian port, which because of its geographical position is not able to have enough transshipment of goods, the same metal, is working on the transshipment of coal and such things. Such ports would do black work or would eventually be closed. Interest is expressed by other ports, where there is indeed a trans-shipment of high-cost products, where the control system will indeed be organized. And in this regard, the second bill, I believe, is the most dangerous because it leaves the chair of the port director and everything else can be practically privatized. And the director of the port will have to address only the issues or problems that will be passed on to him. Otherwise, there are different mechanisms for addressing this problem. My suggestion is: could we send these two bills for finalization and come up with a concept? To constantly take over existing ports today. Investors want to invest money, let them invest in construction of new docks, in in-depth work, construction of terminals, and then it will be their property. Leave in peace what belongs to her, to the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u87	Baranowski, behind him Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u88	Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. I listened as one reporter spoke, saying: “It’s easier for me to talk because I’m 45 years away from shipping. I'm an agrarian. So I'm not going to go, let's say, to the very finesse of the whole thing, but I would like that information and, knowing that I have some information with access to it, I'd like to express my opinion. Well, first of all, the bill envisages the creation of port administration, which means that all ports in other areas, not in the Ministry of Transport, will all go into one hand. That is to say, the ports are supposed to be cleaned in one hand, and further talk about how good their management will be. The other one. The bill provides that commercial structures can build suitable buildings, warehouses, and so forth on port territory. I ask, "Where will they take the land?" So in a public port, they have to allocate land, land to rent or, let's say, sell it, that's a certain, you can see right away, you can see the way to privatization. And to confirm that. If I am not mistaken, I read chapter 26, which reads as follows: The labor force of the public administration of the port, which established the household society, has the primary right to rent individual complexes, buildings, port mechanisms, and so forth. Does that still mean? They've assigned heads of administration, there's a labour force in the administration, these government administrations form a community of farms, and these farm groups have the top priority right to rent everything that's in the port. Well, it's not like privatization's hidden. It's all visible, all above. And one more thing. The State Administration has the right to forfeit the cargo transferred for transhipment and storage to ensure proper payment and so on. I mean, if you're also handing over your cargo to the State Administration for overload, he's entitled to take him on bail. You give him something to reload tomorrow, and you're gonna lose yours, and they're gonna take the load away from you. I mean, the way this law is, to my deep belief that it can't be accepted. It could be a compromise to send them back to re-reading and write, really, a law that would also protect labor groups of ports and, above all, that would protect state property. I, for example, am studying the question on the ports. In Denmark, they don't even think about giving them up for privatisation, because the main revenue line in Denmark for every community in the city is a port, and we want to manage them as easily as we can. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u89	Pisarenko. He's behind him, Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u90	Thank you. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine. The laws that are being submitted to the Supreme Council today are finally called upon to settle relations with regard to the activities of the seaports, and we really need to thank the drafters for their work. But we still don't have a clear public policy on ports about what to do with ports. So we're saying first that these are state-owned enterprises, and the states are building ownership of these enterprises. The drafters of these bills clearly see the term “state” disappearing somewhere, and we get some transport complexes that are not known how their fate will be further. This is seen after you study drafts, and which I hope the Ministry of Transport and Communications has also been involved in developing. I was also present, and I had the opportunity to be present at the meeting, at the exit meeting of the Transport Committee, during which the situation with ports was being studied. And unfortunately, I want to say that today there are virtually no public ports. And there can't be any privatization, because today all the terminals in the ports are being handed out. They are managed by private companies that manage them either on lease contracts or on joint activities contracts. I mean, terminals work for private companies, and profit stays with private companies. Today, public ports have only the cost of living and the payment of wages to their employees. So by adopting such bills in this way, we're not just consolidating the situation today, but we're also leaving the state without the money it's receiving today. Only the loss of the State Border Service from the transfer of functions to the new institutions created under this law, the allocation of premises from the organization of the crossing point across the state border of Ukraine, will cost the state at least 2.5 million dollars. The next step, I assure you, will be the transfer of ports to private hands for no price. So I think a more balanced step would be to redraft the bill or by adopting the bill of our colleague Crook to rework it for the second reading, changing it just in the moments that I said. I have a clear belief that the purpose of such a law, first of all, should be to preserve ports in public property, to organize port management functions and to take responsibility for the inefficient use of port property. And port development should be a priority of the state's transport policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u91	Gnutenko, behind him Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u92	National MP Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, Block of Our Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! As I considered this more important issue, I asked the management of the Ukrainian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of the Odessa Region and the management of the ports of the Odessa region to give a professional assessment of the laws on Ukrainian seaports. The answer is next. The leaders of the Ukrainian seaports support the Ukrainian bill “On Ukrainian seaports”, registration number 2143-1, submitted for consideration by the Supreme Council, provided it is further developed and the positive aspects of the Ukrainian law “On Ukrainian seaports”, registration number 2143. In view of the legal, organizational, economic, and social principles governing the formation, development and operation of Ukrainian seaports, the draft law reflects all the necessary conditions for the operation of seaports. The leaders of the Odessa seaports are further requesting the Ukrainian Maritime Ports Act to state that the water fund is occupied with hydrotechnical, including lush, littered, otherwise constructed, within the seaports by hydrotechnical and other facilities, water-based structures and canals, as well as the land allocated to the lanes for them, is a state-wide property. And the second question. The bill states that seaports are exempt from land taxes on land of a water fund occupied by hydrotechnics, including silts, piled up, otherwise built, within the seaports of hydrotechnics and other facilities. I propose to adopt Bill 2143-1 as a basis and to adopt the bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u93	Thank you. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u94	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. And Sergei Anatoliyovich Matvienkov and Alexander Petrovich Baraniowski, on behalf of our faction, expressed their opinion on this bill, so there is no need to repeat themselves. I'm just going to point out once again that we're going to send both of these bills for re-reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u95	Thank you. Well, actually, the whole discussion was about what the Ports Act should be. On the other hand, in such an alternative and in such an editorial way, it is impossible to accept it because it is necessary to work on it and even what, despite the positive conclusion of the management, it made an 8 - page observation. This suggests that it is really better to work out this document in such a way that it can be accepted convincingly here. However, there was a proposal and the draft decision on Project 2143 suggested that the document be based. I put him to the vote. You're determined by the way, aren't you? Once again, the draft ruling that is being submitted by the deputies of Kruk, Chukmasov, Kruglov is being proposed. I'm putting this project to a vote, please. That's what I explained. 2143-P, 2143-1, and this is a decree, yes, 1. [[12:45:16]] For 301 Project accepted as a basis. In this regard, another draft does not vote in accordance with the Rules and I ask the authors to elaborate on the second reading of the document so that it takes into account all the comments made here during the discussion. We need to consider instruments of ratification, such as the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Economic Cooperation. Report this document to Deputy Minister of Economy Petnicky Valerij Teziyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u96	Dear Alexander Alexander! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! With the aim of expanding the relationship between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary and the development of a bilateral treaty base in the field of economic cooperation following Hungary's accession to the European Union on 10 February 2005 the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Economic Cooperation was signed in Kiev. The signing of the said agreement is prompted by the need to bring a bilateral treaty base into new conditions of cooperation with this country and the requirements of the European Union. The adoption of the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Economic Cooperation will create the conditions for maintaining bilateral trade and economic cooperation on the very basis of a contractual legal basis that will promote harmonious development of economic relations between the two States and provide the necessary conditions for bilateral economic cooperation. It should be noted that in recent years trade-economic cooperation with Hungary has developed quite dynamically and this year we hope that the trade between countries will exceed half a billion dollars. The treaty agreement promotes the establishment of new and expanding existing contacts between the business circles of their countries, facilitates the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, stimulates the participation of international exhibitions and fairs. The agreement strengthens the desire of the treaty parties to develop, strengthen, diversify trade and economic co-operation. For the purpose of carrying out these tasks, the contracting parties shall establish a Joint Commission on Economic Cooperation between Ukraine and the Republic of Hungary, which shall be composed of representatives of the relevant government bodies, organizations and business entities. Thank you for your attention. Please adopt this law on the ratification of the agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u97	Any questions to the deputy minister? Please sign up. Belarus, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u98	Mr. Minister, we're on the committee, no, no, we're going to be the minister one day, we need to address "Mr. Minister." We supported the ratification of this good law on the foreign affairs committee, but did the ministry you represent calculate what positive, productive result we have as a result of the ratification of this bill? This does not apply only to the bill. We find ourselves on the committee very often because financial calculations, justifications, benefits, and not benefits, and sometimes threats, no one counts. Of course, we do well to ratify all international multilateral and bilateral agreements, agreements, treaties, but we need to count government money, keep a copy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u99	You know, today Hungary, despite the fact that this country is pretty small both outside the territory and outside the population, is a very important trading partner for Ukraine and is 11th in trade in Ukraine. And trade with Hungary is extremely diversified. And today we have a positive balance of about 100 to 150 million. That's what I'm talking about. So we hope that this agreement will also contribute to deepening our bilateral relations with this country, on the one hand, and bringing together the best examples of doing business that Hungary is currently in today, which they will borrow in the European Union. On the other hand, this is the way through Hungary to bigger markets in the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u100	Knazevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u101	Mr. Reporter, in principle, this agreement was one of the first to be signed by the new "orange" government after the 2004 presidential elections, it was signed on February 10, 2005. I fully support your thesis that in order to expand and strengthen good neighbourly relations, it was very important to ratify this agreement. But why was it not ratified for two years? That was the first question. The second question. How can the situation around the oil problem in Hungary now somehow fall under this agreement because one of the ways of cooperation is cooperation in the oil and oil fields? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u102	You know, cooperation. This is a framework agreement, and that's why it lays the groundwork for our cooperation in any area, including what you call it. And that's why it's going to depend on how the business of one country and another will cooperate in this area and, of course, the governments of each country will cooperate in this area. This agreement was actually made back in 2005. But under different circumstances, because it was necessary to agree to it, it was sometimes because of a change in the government’s agreement. So that's what took some time.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u103	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u104	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! A fast, socialist faction. I would like to say that our faction will support this bill because it's long overdue. And here the colleagues faithfully noted that two more years had just been delayed by ratification. And you know that today we have very good prospects and an active trade balance today positive, and the opportunity to take advantage of what Ukrainian shares are. Reiffeisenbank just bought up the Hungarian savings bank, which would be a good opportunity to invest Hungarian entrepreneurs' money in Ukraine. But what I would like to ask is what we have here is a question that relates to the aerobic energy that is directly related to Hungary. What are the equations of this question today? Because it is also part of this covenant, because there I know the last months, the last days of the year, so there are problems that they are solving for today?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u105	You know all these issues are solved in the working order. So for today, of course, the question is under constant attention, I mean, I can't say it's solved, but it's settled. And what's more, this same agreement once again provides for the work of a bilateral commission and in the near future, once again, there will be a meeting of this committee, and for that, in fact, one of these issues will be one. The agenda item is going to be the settlement of this issue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u106	Kors.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u107	Please pass the word to Levko Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u108	Please, Lukyanenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u109	Lukyanenko. Please say something like that. Well, I know that the Hungarian government really cares about development, you know, a few areas in Zakartat. They pay great attention to the population, where in areas where the majority of the population of Hungary is more than the population of Ukrainians, or at least about half or so. Well, unlike Ukraine, because Ukraine is not helping Ukrainians who live there in other states, and Hungary is very helpful. So, what is the geography of Ukraine's cooperation with Hungary, isn't that basically Carpathian, or is that actually Ukrainian geography?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u110	Well, you know, if we're talking about, for example, the same trade with Hungary and the types of products that are delivered to Hungary, the types of products that are supplied from Hungary, there are no dominants. This is not the case, for example, where 90 percent of Hungary is supplied with metal products or 90 percent of its medicines are supplied from Hungary. So the quantity of different supplies is 5 to 10 percent and other percentages. This means that this product is both supplied and consumed in different regions, both in Ukraine and in different regions of Hungary. With regard to our, say, cross-border cooperation and regional cooperation between regions that are compatible with Hungary, it is also very active. And by the way, within the framework of the Regional Cooperation Programme of the European Union already, they are financed by the European Union. One such programme is now being implemented: Ukraine-Hungary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u111	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there a desire to comment on this? May I vote? Then I agree with you on the draft Law on the Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Hungary on Economic Cooperation, registration number 0050 for the vote. [[12:56:00]] For 388 Decision taken. Thank you. A draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement on the Civil Global Navigation Satellite System between Ukraine and the European Community, its member states, is under consideration. Reported by the Director General of the National Space Agency of Kuznietsov Eduardo Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u112	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Law on the Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement on the Civil Global Navigation Satellite System between Ukraine and the European Community, its member states. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Space Agency, Mintransveyance, Mineconomy, Minfin, Minosvets for Science, BSS, State Tax Administration, State Customs Service participated in the development and harmonization of the agreement. The agreement was initialled by the parties in Kiev in June 2005 and signed by the President of Ukraine at the ninth “Ukraine-EU” summit on December 1, 2005. In line with the conclusion of the Ministry of Justice, a signed agreement to enter into force requires ratification by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In this connection, the National Space Agency of the Cabinet of Ministers developed a draft Ukrainian Law on the ratification of this agreement. The bill of ratification proposed for your consideration was accepted without notice by all the central authorities listed above, and in accordance with the Act on International Contracts, submitted to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The proposed Cooperation Agreement is a framework agreement and refers to the participation of Ukrainian subjects in the creation and development of various spheres of application of the European Global Navigation Satellite System Galileo in Ukraine. Unlike the current global navigation systems, the American GPS system and the Russian Gloss system, which were originally created as military systems, and are operated by the military authorities of these countries. The Galileo system is created as a system under civilian control that deals mainly with commercial tasks. In the future, this system represents an orbital group of 28 satellites, ground-based controls and controls, as well as a segment of communication with consumers that will be provided with navigational and co-ordinated services. The Galileo system will eventually be fully operational in the ninth to tenth years. The signed Agreement is an important factor for the next steps towards European integration in economic, scientific, technical and space fields. Ukraine's accession and participation in the creation of a new high-tech system, Galileo, will enable Ukraine's space, telecommunications and geo-information enterprises to cooperate with foreign partners in solving the science and technology problems that are relevant to Ukraine. Ratification and further implementation of the agreement will have a positive impact on the economy of the State and on the activities of Ukrainian operators in virtually all areas of public life, where the exact meaning of the location and time is needed. In particular, further development of all modes of transport, study and protection of the environment and resources, mining, gas industry, electricity, urban transport and agriculture, agriculture, cadastre, soil control, precise fertilizers, fertility, fisheries, scientific research, public security, crime control, customs border control, emergency activities, social affairs, tourism and recreation, aid to disabled persons, etc. In view of the fact that the satellite navigation market is one of the most promising for the next 15 years, the ratification of the agreement will also signal Ukrainian and foreign entrepreneurs in Ukraine to support the state’s business development in these areas and, in particular, in the information and telecommunications sector. This, in turn, will increase the number of jobs in the high-tech sectors of the economy, contribute to the investment attractiveness of Ukraine for domestic and foreign investment. We are looking forward to Ukraine's membership in the European Space Agency -- already preparing a framework agreement, participating in the first European Space Programme. And the ratification of this agreement will be an important step on this path. Ladies and gentlemen, please support the proposed Ukrainian Act on Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement on the Civil Global Navigation Satellite System. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u113	Is there a question for the reporter? Sign up if you want. Ten minutes. Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u114	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Dear Edward Ivanovich, would you please tell us this agreement in the event of its ratification, will it spread at the level of the sectors of cooperation? I am primarily interested in the cooperation sector, such as industrial cooperation and the development of global and land systems. Tell me, at times, how do you view a professional as close cooperation with our European partners, will it not lead to our production, our defence and space industries being absorbed? Will they maintain their independence and the ability to earn their own income? Won't it be time for us to become part of some transnational corporation where our priorities will be lost, and first of all, what worries us most today is our intellectual property and the vast work of the aviation and space sector that we have today, the glory of God, thanks to your knowledge? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u115	Thank you for asking. I have to briefly say that this agreement only expands the capabilities of Ukrainian businesses, scientific institutions in space activities. By no means can we give up our work and let it go. And we are convinced that this will only give new impetus to the development of the missile space sector in Ukraine. I believe that this will expand our influence and our cooperation and influence on certain European institutions and certain European projects, because our scientists are somewhat limited by the lack of such agreements to cooperate with European institutions. We've been trying to get our projects to be included in the first European space programme in order to finance them, and these projects have been interested in Europe. So I think this is just going to be a positive response to the signing of the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u116	It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u117	Thank you. A fast, socialist faction. I've come to realize that by ratifying this agreement we would have been invited by the European structures to participate in our country's implementation of this project. And I want to say that we have certain hopes. You know what the European side of Ukraine estimates can make a significant contribution to the European global monitoring system. And we're already taking an active part here, I mean, our scientists and our engineering personnel. At the same time, we are encouraged to have a practical part in the creation of a civil national navigation satellite system. So what I'm saying is, besides the production that we have today, or we're not going to lose, this could lead to what we're going to be offered, and we're going to have the possibilities for today, the appropriate sites to use our launch capabilities, or are we just going to be suppliers of appropriate equipment?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u118	Thank you. There are some subtleties about this project. This project, “Galileo”, is purely civil, unlike the existing American “GPS” and Russian “Glonas”, because these military systems, at some point in time, are according to the state that is doing purely military action, can be shut down, and this has happened during the events in Iraq. And this. will harm those business structures, those civilian projects that are carried out through the navigation system. This Galileo system, it will be purely civil. And we will, the European Community and Ukraine, if it signs this agreement, be assured that there will be no extraordinary event. And so are these conditions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u119	Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u120	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. We're all so interested in space. I'd like to continue with the question my colleague asked. After all, we remember the negative image that Ukraine received from the crash of our carrier rocket, which produced satellites at the Baikonur space station. And it's only about a year from now that we're back on track, we've already got a release from the media. Wouldn't this crash of our missiles affect that our contracts might not be offered to our carrier rockets, would they be our satellites or someone else's? It still bothers the MPs and me whether we're going to get extra jobs, whether it's just the intentions of today that we're going to participate. Have we protected our national interests here, and how much have we defended them?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u121	Thank you. The thing is, really, after the Dnipra missile crash in Baikonura, we have all the reasons for this accident explained. In these days, the leadership of Kazakhstan has again allowed the launch of Dnipro rockets from Baikonur. The Galileo system will use satellites designed and produced by the European side. The launch market and launch offers have not yet been determined. We have some prospects to run these spacecraft. But our most reliable activity is ground-based reception stations, information processing, and the expansion of the use of services that we will receive through this satellite navigation system. It's a place where cars are located, traffic control in these cars, cargo, more loyally, vessels, and so on, in the absence of them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u122	Anyway, it's okay, Alexander Petrovich. Garden, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u123	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. I'll have two questions. Well, first of all, so to speak, a purely civilian space-related program doesn't actually happen, it's always so complex, it's multifaceted. It's such a small observation. It is clear that the bill foresees cooperation as a satellite navigation and also cooperation relating to partnership in the Galileo programme. So I have two questions. First question. How much will the financial ratio be in the expense and that we will have some, perhaps, corresponding income if we sign or vote for this agreement? And the second. What is the ratio of this system of “Galileo ” to the Russian corresponding systems? We're not breaking what we've done?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u124	I want to say thank you for asking that signing this framework agreement so far does not require and probably will not require any financial costs. In addition, this system will exist separately from the “Glonas” system of Russian, which, unfortunately, has been formed for several years and has not yet been formed. It's supposed to have 28 satellites. At this time, only 14 Russian satellites are in orbit, or the system is not complete. Maybe, well, it'll take a few years and this system will be formed. But I would like to point out that individual Russian institutions are also interested in the functioning and cooperation of this civil system, Galileo. There will be no military segment. It will only be a purely civilian commercial structure that will provide transport navigation and all other projects that are part of the economy of different European countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u125	Borszewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u126	Borszewski, Communist faction, Dnepropetrovsk region. The adoption of such a programme leads to the choice of certain standards, i.e., in principle, by making such a decision, further development can become irreversible and we will not be able to move on to other standards. That's why I have a few questions. First question. Will the participation of our research, productive capacity be only at the level of exploitation, or will it also be at the level of development, implementation and manufacture of components of this system? That's the first question. Second question. Still, honestly, I'm concerned that civil or military, the colleagues here rightly said it was very conditional. Would that not lead to the loss of a security element for our State?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u127	Thank you. I'll start with the second question. This will not lead to the loss of a security element for our State to participate in this agreement. Since there is some suspicion that this will lead to security, Ukraine may refuse to operate the system. First question. We've developed and we've already got, we've got ground stations for receiving and processing information from these satellites. In addition, our scientists have gone the following way, these stations are universal, they receive and process information, use and transmit from all three GPS systems, the Voice of Russia and are now adapted to the European Galileo system. We therefore expect only to form a ground segment and serve our consumers in this Galileo system. We don't get involved in satellites.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u128	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Mother Vitaly Ivanovich, secretary of the Committee on Industrial Affairs, Regulatory Policy, will express the opinion of the committee on this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u129	The Industrial Policy and Enterprise Committee supports the signing of this agreement. And what's more, I can tell you how a person who's been involved in the development of different kinds of country systems, that we've been dealing with this problem in the country for a long time, for 20 years, has been faking it. I can only say that what the Deputy Director General of the Space Agency said here is really true. And such a system as we would and would not want to do must be a global system that can be used by all countries. And the ability of our ground-based equipment, which can work with three systems, gives us independence from any case. It seems to me that this agreement should be firmly established, that it is also the ability of our scientists, and the possibilities of industry, and transportation, only adds the opportunity to use that knowledge, the skill that is in our scientists, is in our industry. And everything else will depend on us, since no one can say it will be another 30 years. Well, today it's a great help at work, and most importantly, it's transport safety, it's industrial safety. And I think this direction should be supported. Moreover, I am confident that the Russians will work with this system because the system must be global. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u130	Is there a question to Vitali Ivanovich? He's got Belarus. No one's writing another one down. I give Belarus my word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u131	Dear Vitaly Ivanovich! I have three questions. First. Why didn't this ratification bill go through the Foreign Affairs Committee, there's an international aspect? The agreement is called a global navigation system, and it is initiated by the European Community. There is a conflict of interest and contradiction. The other one. How different this system is from the echelon known when every person can be watched, where he is not, in the bedroom or in the office or in the toilet, and can be followed. Is there no threat to national security in connection with the total system of monitoring and monitoring conversations, the movements of every person, structure, car, and so forth? I think these issues directly relate to national security. Please give a brief answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u132	First. Why not the one, but the other committee, that's who gave the commission to the committees. The Defence Committee was looking into that question. As for the data that the system has the ability to take down, it's going to take down the data that we want or don't want for one reason, it all depends on the capabilities of those satellites, the equipment that stands on them. And to get information from them, that's what we're capable of. And what they take off, it doesn't matter, we can't shut down from 27 satellites. I can say more than that, back in the '70s, we were swimming all over the ocean on our own floating devices, and we saw everything that was going on in all the countries. So it doesn't depend on what we accept, it's a satellite, it takes all the information, and we can't stop them from doing anything, because it doesn't have any effect. We can do some kind of radio tech.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u133	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Vitali Jakovitch Šibko, what will you say from your point of view, please, regarding the position of the committee or your personal opinion on this matter? [[Vitaly Ivanovich, sit down]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u134	The committee did not consider the matter. I think there's some kind of disagreement here. Maybe it wasn't signed because it wasn't going through the committee, but I've expressed my position from the very beginning when I asked the rapporteur that we would support this agreement so that Ukraine would have the opportunity to participate actively in the European institutions that are just interested in Ukraine. I would like to stress that there is a need for ratification of interest not only in the Ukrainian side but in the relevant European structures. It's very important. And I want to say here to confirm that Russia will come to this in its own time, because it's a European system. And the European system needs Ukraine itself. So there's no fear that we're going to go into another system, and Russia is going to stay outside or we're going outside. That's why we support the need for ratification.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u135	And the head of the Matthews Committee, please. Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u136	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Matweenkov, faction of the Socialist Party. I would like to clarify the situation a little bit and answer the previous question that has been asked about the tracking system and what we can say is that we can create a system that can be completely monitored by our citizens. The point is that, unfortunately, we have enough of those systems that you are talking about right now. This is the system that proposes to organize a mechanism to monitor the movement of goods, goods, vehicles and vessels. If we are talking about our Ukraine's will to be at a crossroads, this is what we will say, transport highways, at the centre of transport routes, the system of delivery of goods across Ukraine, the system of delivery of luggage through Ukraine, the system of development of our production organization will all make it possible by introducing this system of control and integrating it into European control methods. Therefore, there are absolutely no underwater stones here, and it is worth ratifying this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u137	Thank you. There are those who want to discuss this issue, aren't there? Talk about it? Support me? Well, that's enough. That's why I gave it to you because it's a committee. The argument has already been made enough to determine how to vote. I would like to support this, because Ukraine will not create its own global, obviously in the near future, but to join what exists, I think it's a good thing for the state. I'm voting on this bill. [[13:21:23]] For 391 Decision taken. Thank you. The Conciliation Board recommended that a reduced procedure be followed to consider a few questions, and they are in order of the day. I am putting to the vote the issue of the procedure for short-term consideration of these issues. I'm betting on the vote, please support this proposal. [[13:21:55]] For 273 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Non-State Pension Insurance is being considered under this scheme. A report from Aloshin Valerij Borisovich, head of the State Commission for the Regulation of Markets in Financial Services, a colleague of Parliament's past appeals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u138	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Your opinion is proposed by the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Non-State Pension Insurance. The project is designed to improve legislation governing the activities of nonstate pension funds and other nonstate pensioners. The need to develop such a document is caused by two circumstances. First, after the adoption of the law in 2003, there were other basic laws that regulate, inter alia, the state registration of legal persons, the rules of the Civil Code, and the need to bring the law into line with these new laws. There has also been a first practice of non-state pension funds in Ukraine, and this largely includes technical legal improvements to the rules contained in the basic law. In particular, it is about the following. It is envisaged that there will be a separation of the procedure for the state registration of nonstate pension funds and their registration as financial institutions. The system of managing open and professional non-governmental pension funds is improving, as part of the participation of employers in the Pension Fund Board. The bill also misses the position that allows for greater responsibility of the custodian bank, greater responsibility and greater financial requirements to be placed in companies that administer the non-state pension fund and manage the assets of the fund. Along with that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u139	Valery Borisovich, you've obviously forgotten that under the reduced procedure of regulations, two minutes. Let me finish the interview. Talk to me. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u140	Dear colleagues, I'd like to support the bill. I was really focused on previous practice when the summary report was allowed for three minutes. I'm sorry. Please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u141	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The representative of the Committee on Finance and Banking, Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u142	Dear colleagues, the committee at its meeting on December 19 discussed the bill. And with regard to the amendments to the Law on Non-State Pension Insurance, I would like to point out the following. On January 1, 2004, the Law on State Pension Insurance began to work and operate. Today, there are enough suggestions and comments on this bill. These observations and proposals relate primarily to improving existing legislation, the rules governing the activities of non-state pension fund administrators, asset management companies and other instruments involved in the non-state pension scheme. The bill also provides for the resolution of individual disagreements between participants and investors of non-state pension funds and the boards of these funds, the strengthening of the responsibility of the custodian in the non-state pension scheme, the establishment of additional obligations of the custodian to ensure that pension savings of Ukrainian citizens are enhanced and other issues that generally improve the current Non-State Pension Insurance Act. According to what figures are now available, nearly 50 million dollars have been accumulated under a non-state pension system and some one hundred thousand have been covered. Of course, these are small figures to be proud of. Therefore, the committee believes that it is necessary to base the data.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u143	Finish your thought, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u144	in order to improve and strengthen the system that operates around the world, the very non-state pension and the reliability of such security in our country. The committee therefore suggests that the first reading be based on a bill that was tabled by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u145	Have a seat, please. Write down who wants to say yes or no. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u146	Dear colleagues! The crisis of the solidarity pension system, which Ukraine is currently experiencing and the Ukrainian people are suffering quite painfully, is not an unknown or unique Ukrainian phenomenon. The point is that all countries in Europe, the world, especially those affected by the echo, the second echo of the demographic disaster, have experienced and experienced the crisis of the solidarity pension system. But unlike other countries in the world who had long ago found a way out of this situation, which had long since gone on the path of reforming the pension system, Ukraine was either trampled or trampled on the ground, trying to distribute these modest amounts of pension payments, taking in some categories, giving to other categories. Well, the civil servants, they went even further: Having access to power, they themselves assign high pensions, as they did, to the great regret, and we, the national deputies of Ukraine. I believe that pension reform should be resuscitated immediately; we must immediately put into practice those positions of pension reform that unfortunately do not work today. And I would like to point out, dear colleagues, that we must support this bill because in developing such financial services as non-state pension insurance, a huge social component. I'm focusing on just one position, one positive thing that we get: this bill, these changes to the law, allow you to increase the employer's interest in making it count for the benefit of your employed employees in non-state pension funds. We are sooner or later, I hope that this year we will move on to the legislative level of Ukraine's three-level pension system, because we can't continue to accept the low rate of compensation when a person retires. Other ways are unpopular we can't yet. That's why the future here is for non-state pension insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u147	Thank you. Lukyanchuk has the word. To Belarus, Oleg Grigorovitch gives the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u148	Thank you. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich. The question is very important. It's a matter of national strategy. The pensioner is also a pensioner in Africa. And there's a lot of them. And, you know, we're going to have a slogan in Ukraine soon: “Have you joined the pensioners?” Very many sticky pensioners. And now we want to introduce commercial pensions by law. It's going to be Bedlam and Market, Sodom and Gomorrah. Retirement can be granted only by the state, and it is earned by the pension. Pensions are not given by the government. For the government comes and goes. And the state, the country only has the right to give deserved pensions. That's why 200 million of the government's scarce national budget for some kind of commercial pension fund is a crime. And I say that by looking into the eyes of all the citizens, and those who get low-income pensions, and those who get higher pensions. We need to put order in state pensions, not make it up. If they are willing to create MMFs in the form of pension funds, they should not do so at the expense of 200 million from the State Budget for the first time or for the first time in a year, and they should not drive in the fields and they would not demand that they all join non-State pension funds on behalf of the State. It's illegal reception, it's got nothing to do with the social value, the place and the role of retirement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u149	Thank you. We finished the discussion. In this sense, two opinions were made, but such a powerful forward as Oleg Grigorovich, in this case, struck the stall using football terminology. Because this law works and the authors propose changes to it that result from the application of this law. And that's why in many cases it defines the definitions more clearly, clearly defines procedures, the need for registration, matt, the fund and so on. So Oleg Grigorovich said a little bit off the subject in this case. Wait. I'm not criticizing, I'm taking stock of the bill in accordance with the Rules. And in that context, I insist that we support the voting of this project in the first reading. And to the second reading, so that we can process each definition carefully, each position of this project so that it can be accepted. I ask you to determine by vote. [[13:34:25]] For 269 Decision taken. Thank you. I'm sorry if I made an incorrect statement about Oleg Grigorovich, but he knows that I'm sympathetic to him. I said powerful, using its weight in the legislative process. Please. Draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws on the promotion of construction. Reports by Serbian Yuri Sergiyovich. Please. Head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u150	Dear colleagues, this law that I am about to report has been worked by a large group of over 40 people. And first, I want to thank all the authors for working on this piece of legislation. I can't list them all, but the national MPs who took an active part, and the main ones I'd like to name at least names. These are MPs: Kulbida, Kucherenko, Maiborda, Matvienkov, Odarchenko, Polachenko, Radovets, Sterban, Samylik, Dry. And experts: Ważkulat, Gorbatovitch, Ternopilski, Nechayeva, and Hudzakov. I only named the base. When we were working on this law, the goal that we had before us was to shorten the procedures for land allocation, make them more transparent and make investors into construction, because it's one of the main areas and it's the development of our economy. There's a table in front of you, look at it, there's an existing system. What is, is. That's how many squares you have to go through right now to get permission to build. I'm asking you to put another slide.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u151	Yuri Sergiyovich, these are the procedures for today's receipt. You can't see anything from this distance, but who knows, he gets it. Right?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u152	And the second question. What do we offer in our law? These procedures remain. I say the first principle of the thing, and by the way, this is Moscow's experience, we listened to it at a committee meeting, and he completely justified himself. A local council before it's served.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u153	Let me finish the committee head's reasoning.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u154	I don't get it, I answer as an author, and as a committee, give me a double rule.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u155	Give him two more minutes as head of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u156	Then I'm going to cancel out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u157	Two more minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u158	Then I ask the questions that will be asked, the only question that I want to answer now is the question that the Science-Expert Authority has given. The observations are correct, but of the 19 comments we have received, 7 observations are purely theoretical, and improvements in formulations. This will be included in the second reading if you vote in the first reading. The second block of notes is linked to the earth’s market. No one or an agrarian committee has a general objection to this. And we're willing to remove this issue from our law, and so we agreed with the leadership of the agrarian committee, if the land market law doesn't pass, because we have these positions, and in the land market law, that's what our law will take into account. If this goes through in the land market law, then we rule out this position, they don't conflict with the future of the law, so we agreed with the head of the agrarian committee. And there are four valid comments, including a permit that will certainly be withdrawn. Taking away from this really inappropriateness and error that will be removed from consideration in the second reading. So in general, the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority as a whole is positive. I finish my report because it was calculated for 15 minutes, and I was restricted. I'm asking that this is really a three-fold reduction in serious terms, and this prevents, as far as possible, any left-hand and right-hand revenue for those who allocate these land areas. This will be a transparent auction mechanism for land areas and a clear discussion position. I ask you to support in the first reading such a conclusion and scientific expertise. I'm ready to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u159	Thank you. Have a seat, please. You don't have to answer the questions, because the procedure doesn't predict it, first. And secondly, we've considered this issue once before here and then we've given the committee a mandate to work out this document in a way that will stop the vacchanal that is being seen in cities today when they're putting land under construction. And putting order in place, so that no one, through the world, can take it, create all kinds of fictional firms under construction, and not suffer from it. I think that's what's taking into account both these proposals and the fact that all the factions were involved in the drafting of this bill, I think it gives us hope that we're going to accept it on the first reading and then we're going to work on the second reading so that every nuance can be taken into account. In this case, it is a matter of expressing to the MPs who want “for” who “against” to support it. From the committee he said, he took two orders. Please sign up for a discussion of who wants to. Please. Insomnia, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u160	Boris Bespali "Our Ukraine." Dear colleagues, the bill is really, really well prepared. And I have no doubt, for example, about what our faction is going to be based on. And that's why we need to focus on the things that need to be worked out. An important advantage is the combination of public discussion and professional expertise, because there's a wild construction going on now, and I think it needs to be done, and it's a positive ratio. And so perhaps the deletion of article 18, which is proposed, may be just the case. We need to think about this, because this is where the very detailed deadlines for informing the public about the intentions of the builders are, perhaps, that information should be proven in specific terms. So I think we're going to have to think about this article, maybe we don't have to throw it all away together, so we don't have to go out with the water and the baby. The other one. This refers finally to the auction sale of land. In general, everyone is completely aware that there are two ways of auctioning, two ways to privatize, nothing else. There's an open auction of money and a closed bribe auction. Until now, only one type of market is regulated and functioning in Ukraine – a shadow market for permits. And putting an end to it is our sacred duty. I would like to remind you that back in 1999, together with Deputy Bondarenko, Teryohinim, we had a bill that we had proposed, for example, that these funds that would come in could be used to pay off undervalued savings, which would now be for social housing. And so given the relevance of this topic, I think we're not only supporting it in the first reading, but also the report by the profiling committee, so that it doesn't hesitate to work and was considered and accepted as a whole at the beginning of the next session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u161	Oleg Lazko will speak now, but before that, a representative of the Agrarian Committee will speak. I made a tactical mistake. For the matter of the earth stands here, and he will speak. Sulkowski speaks. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u162	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, a respected colleague, based on the title of the bill, aims to improve legislation in the area of construction and construction. However, as a result of the proposed standards, the adoption of the bill would not be conducive, but would make it more difficult to build as the proposed amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Planning and Landing complicate the construction process and the location of construction sites. The process of solving the issues of forgetfulness and getting the output for the design of construction objects. The amendments proposed in the bill to the Ukrainian Code of Land cannot be accepted. First of all, this refers to a large block of additions to the Code on the Sale of Lands on Competitive Principles, while the mechanism for conducting land trade has already been laid down in the draft Ukrainian Law on Land Market, registration number 0947, which was adopted in the first reading. And there is no need to transfer these standards into the Earth Code. It is not appropriate to supplement the Ukrainian Code of Land with articles on the promotion of housing and public buildings, since this issue is already addressed in the Codex earth. It is not possible to accept the change in the wording of the articles of the Code of Earth, chapters 8, 10, since part of the wording of the articles mentioned corresponds to the land management mechanism as a whole, the proposed changes focus on construction issues. Amendments to the Code limit citizens’ rights to free privatization of land in their use. Since it is suggested that these land be transferred to the property if it is used according to urban documentation. On December 12, 2006, the committee considered the appointment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u163	20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u164	And he suggested that we work on it, taking into account the comments made, but the bill that's under consideration today, the remarks were practically ignored, and you, as the author, witnessed it today. Therefore, today, we accept this proposal in the first reading on the basis and in the second reading as a matter of urgency, taking everyone into account, without exception, the proposal of the committee, the Main Committee. [[I'm also joining the previous speakers.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u165	Have a seat. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u166	I'm glad you're making such positive assessments of my activities, fellow Communists of honor. I also believe that it is worth supporting a bill that simplifies the procedure for obtaining building permits. And the fact that a representative of the anti-crisis coalition opposes this bill is evidence that they are being set up by this complicated system when people have been going for years to get a building permit. [[The first table that was shown]] It turns out that the anti-crisis coalition is completely in place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u167	Tell me who's up against it. Name your last name.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u168	Previous speaker.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u169	So where he supported the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u170	I won't call his last name. But this bill really needs to be redrafted. In particular, the bill provides for public discussion when it comes to the construction of objects of great social significance. Well, what's the big public interest? This is an overwhelming formulation used by present - day officials. Those who are now in Kiev or in any city know what to do with it. To get permission, you have to go through and the residents don't know which houses or adjacent or non-neighbourly, get these consents, and they're going through this process. In addition, the bill provides for the removal of a builder without his known license to build, that is, the extension of the authority of officials. He builds a man's house, he builds it to the top floor, he comes in, he takes the license and everything, the money he's lost, and we're going to have the Elite Centers again when people invest their money and don't get it. I mean, I think we need to support this bill and simplify the construction process. This will have an impact on housing and on the reduction of corruption and bribery in the area of construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u171	As far as the name is concerned, I will not give the lines, but I will say what you want to say. I'm asking you, let's not get into the political sense of expressing our colleagues. The previous speaker, Lalashka, expressed support for the bill in the first reading, making specific remarks, more specific than those quoted by the expert board. And he insists on voting in the first reading, and in the second reading, he insists on taking these proposals into account. As for those proposals, I would like to say the following, for example, I think that in the law that applies to construction, if the rules of some other law are duplicated, because you referred to a draft law that can't be the basis for reasoning, there will be no sin in that. And on the contrary, the cost of land allocation must be taken into account, because if we don't, what we have today will continue to be what we have -- the land takes away, for example, for the privatization of an object, and then the land goes under construction, and then the real value goes up to the surface, in meters, and people pay for it. So I think that's what you should mean. But in the first reading, this document, which greatly simplifies the procedure and the allocation of land, and in general the resolution of the construction issue, needs to be supported. I'd like to ask you to determine by voting. There's a vote coming. [[13:50:19.]] For 391 I think, well, come on, they insist on factions, I'm going to announce factions. Region Party - 184, v – 0; Timoshenko Block - 93, v – 0, but of 123; “Our Ukraine” - 62, SPU - 27, Communists - 21, “Afterfractional” - 4. [[It's about who supports, who doesn't support]] I think it's clear. Work on the document, prepare it for second reading. After the adjournment of the sitting, take the line. Well, that's two minutes we're wasting. I didn't call you last name, no. Well, please! You don't have to! Draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State architectural control and promotion of investment in construction. Bertash Vasil Mikhailovich reports. Please. Oh, there was a letter. I'm sorry, I'll find it. It's about transferring it. In view of the need for further development of this project, the author requests that the review be postponed to a later date, in February-month. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. [[13:52:06]] For the 320. A decision has been made. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Family Code to increase child alimony. Mikola Volodymyrovich Tomenko. And I'm asking right away, because I'm going to give him four minutes to report instead of two minutes, because it's a delicate question. [[Go to the rostrum]] We need to bring the issue to the public. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u172	Respectful colleagues, considering that we are a family, are always finishing our meetings with our children and that I will always focus on the key issues. A few figures on the situation. In 2005, we had 170,000 divorces in Ukraine. In 2006, statistics show that divorces are likely to increase. Ukraine has reported 14,000 divorces each month. This is one of the biggest figures in Europe. I am absolutely convinced that today the institution of the family, in terms of prevention, value, educational work, has virtually ceased to exist if we look at the environment. It seems that the sole responsibility of the child lies with the mother or family that supports him and that the society, the state, and the parents feel that they are doing so in harmony with him. Today, there are two categories of children and mothers who raise children without parents. If the father is not found, the location is unknown, he hides, disappears or leaves, they get 30% of the living minimum to keep the child. Last year it's about 170 bucks. If parents are mean alimony payers or faked their salary, even in court decisions you can raise a child for 170 or 200 dollars. Well, that's what the Ministry of Justice thinks, and that's what we think, and we think, because that's how the legislation makes it happen. What am I offering? In addition to the kind of prevention of divorce and the general explanation of the situation, we, especially young people, should not rush to make decisions and then not know what to do with this decision, namely, with children. This is certainly not a matter for Parliament. As a parliament, we would have to draw attention to this and say that responsibility for children and children is shared by both the State and society and both parents who are, as a rule, co-owners of this precious property. What am I supposed to do? As for those children, the whereabouts of their parents are unknown. Obviously, we'd have to go to the minimum wage payment. What difference does it make between a child and an adult man to be supported? Let me remind you that since this year, living minimum per child from one to six years is going to be 442 bracelets on average. Minfin calculated the price of the question, if I were to say so harshly about the children, 122 million. I don't think next year Parliament and the government will find 122 million to solve this issue. It's a more complicated story, bringing alimony from your parents. I'm assuming there's a category of people who get low wages. And there's a complication. That's my offer. I have consulted with experts from “Our Ukraine”, from the Party of Regions that support ideology, but question the validity of this norm. I suggest you do this after the discussion between the first and the second readings. If a father in a court of law is convincingly proving and showing that his salary is low, then his alimony amounts to no more than 50 percent of his salary, and the state compensates that part so that the mother gets a child at least a minimum of living. So what we're going to do is we're going to come up with a situation where, with the common concern of the state, society and both parents, regardless of the situation, they live together, and we're not only respecting the child at birth, but we've been supporting and helping raise the child until we're 18 years old. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u173	Have a seat, please. Korniyczuk Evgen Volodymyrovich, the first deputy head of the Committee on Legal Policy, will comment on this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u174	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the draft law amending the Ukrainian Family Code to increase child alimony is designed to increase child alimony from 30 per cent to the minimum of living for a child of appropriate age to the minimum of living, as well as to increase the amount of temporary State assistance for children if the place of residence is unknown, or if they avoid payment of alimony or are unable to support a child. Clearly, the implementation of the project provides for an increase in budget spending. As a result of the modern reality of life, it is important to support the bill and such a decision was taken at a committee meeting of 29.11.2006 with a transitional position on the entry into force of the law since 1 January 2008. Such clarification would eliminate contradictions with article 27 of the Ukrainian Code of Budget, and the adoption of the bill in the first reading would allow it to be improved in preparation for the second reading. This is also the position expressed by the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I would like to point out that during the committee meeting, the Ministry of Justice also expressed support for the bill. Please support the committee's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u175	Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to make a statement, please sign in. I'm announcing the continuation of the session until we consider this issue, so that there are no observations. Insomnia. Please, Lilia Stepanovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u176	Lilia Grigorovich, “Our Ukraine”. Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, is the fact that the family institution today does not properly perform its role and function. What is more, the family institution is in the squad. Today we expect excellent performance as president, minister, national deputy, head of the government, but let's face it, two of the top seniors are not working, father and mother. Can we use such methods to preserve marriage and reduce the number of divorces? Yes, it is also one of the ways to avoid such a number of divorces, to preserve families, and eventually to ensure the rights of children. Therefore, “Our Ukraine” will certainly support this bill on the idea, because this corresponds to the ideology initiated by the President of Ukraine, not formal, but to the real protection of children's rights, including in the material equivalent. At the same time, we want to stress the following. If, for example, this is true of families who are provided or middle - incomed, of course, two children can be allowed to leave the family financially. But when a father earns 800 or 600 dollars and two children remain who need to be allocated at least for each child’s subsistence minimum, there may be such a conflict that it was more convenient for families to get a divorce in order to get more money to pay for their children. In view of the fact that I stress once again, in support of the idea of the bill, the faction “Our Ukraine” insists that before second reading we should regulate child alimony payments by moving away from the subsistence minimum so that these payments are real so that we do not drive these payments and problems into the legal burden, and thus this has not been better but worse for the protection of children's rights. We only support this bill in the first reading. Second, we will work out a solution that will benefit children’s rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u177	Thank you. Victoria Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u178	Dear colleagues! Dear Chairman! The bill introduced for consideration by the Supreme Council foresees an increase in the minimum child alimony cost of living. Today, I would like to remind you that alimony is 30 percent of the child's living minimum. In addition, the project foresees an increase in temporary state aid to a minimum of living if the parents ’ place of residence is unknown or avoid alimony payments, or if they are unable to support the child. Clearly, our task and responsibility are to work toward raising the level of social protection for children raised in single - parent families. However, is the bill real before the work is implemented. Experts have made a number of comments to him. The main point is that implementation of the project will increase budget expenditure. At the same time, the author did not make any proposals about the expenditure to be reduced, but did not indicate the source of additional revenue to cover the increase in expenditure, and the requirement to provide such information is contained in the Code of Budgets and Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The 2014 bill is proposed to be put into effect on 1 January 2007. While, according to the Budget Code, laws that affect the formation of an income or expenditure portion of the budget should be officially published by 15 August of the year ahead of schedule. Thus, the bill requires substantial work. We consider it to be socially significant. To this end, the Party of the Regions' MPs propose to send the 2014 Bill for further development and to return to its consideration once it has reconciled its provisions with the current legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u179	Have a seat, please. One moment, please, attention. The closing word can take the head of the committee, the reporter is meant, so he gets one minute of the speech. Please, Tomenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u180	I would normally be interested in a broad discussion, since many aspects, I agree with criticism, should be taken into account. But the only thing I would ask a colleague of those who spoke, especially from fraternal factions, from the anti-crisis coalition, is that we are all serious and adult people. To see that the bill was tabled six months ago, not being considered, and that it provides for the entry into force of January 1, 2007, we are not all born today. Clearly, it will be put into effect, as provided for by law, the following financial year. So I would ask this serious problem, though, to talk essentially and I'm convinced that if we don't have an understanding of this today, I would ask you to back me up on the part that we have to solve this problem, this problem. Since leaving it unresolved is a misunderstanding of this vital and important social problem, we will never have an increase in birth and will never have respect for the family in the country if we do not solve this problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-10-m0.u181	We concluded our discussions and our reasoning was clear. The fact that we will accept such documents, of course, and the fact that they present some of the risks to the budget is also understandable. Obviously, it was necessary to provide for the final consideration of the matter in order to be responsible for the child’s father or mother, or more, I mean alimony. If the master is a mother of children, please make sure that the child is provided, not expected to be a State, a society that will assume your responsibilities. Then it will indeed be a law that will affect the preservation of the family and many other matters. Because you can essentially translate the cost of child support into a state, but it's not going to be 120 million, you know, you can understand that because you take the age gap, you take the number of children, even with the reduction of birth, and so on, it's going to be a huge cost for the budget. In this sense, the observation given by Victoria Matthew is very fair, because we cannot even deny what we are talking about in the end. So for the second reading, if we're preparing a project like this, there should be a unique description of all of this, and the emphasis is on it, parents say, you have children -- raise them, provide them. And the legal requirement is to pay at least the minimum of living. You hide, you don't hide, you show your salary full or you don't show, it doesn't matter, and maybe you don't limit 50 percent there, and you have to provide a full living minimum in alimony, then it'll be understood and there'll be no budget burden. I think that's how we should approach. Meanwhile, the proposal was in the first reading to put this question, this law to the vote. I'm putting it, i.e. the draft law on this. Please, in the first reading, I emphasize. [[14:06:56]] For 217 Then I beg you, by the factions, please. Region Party 6, Timoshenko Yulia Block -107, Ukraine -71, Socialists - 16, Communists - 15, non-fractional - 2. There's a second suggestion: to send for further work on the discussion. Please, I'm putting this motion to the vote. [[14:07:34]] For 331 Decision taken. Thank you. The morning session is closed. After lunch on committees and factions, please.
