ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, guests of the Supreme Council, distinguished radio and television audiences! May 20th today, Tuesday. Parliament is continuing its work. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:06:49]] A total of 258 national deputies were registered. The morning session is open. Ladies and gentlemen, on May 18, 7th, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine on March 26th, 6th, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Kasiańuk, Alexander Rostislavovich, is included in the electoral list of the Party of Regions. According to article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before taking office, national deputies should take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. To make an oath to the rostrum, the National Deputy of Ukraine Kasianuk Alexander Rostislavovich is invited, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u2	I swear allegiance to Ukraine, I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u3	Welcome to Rostislav. Alexander Rostislavovich with this stage, the conclusion of such a stage in his life and the beginning of a new stage. We understand that he comes to Parliament in an unforgivable political way. But we hope that he will be able to join the coalition, more faithfully, in the faction in this case, and, if determined, in the coalition in order to work for the benefit of our nation and people. We have time, according to the Rules, to make statements, talks, messages, and so forth. Please sign in from the factions that would like to speak. Individually now, please. Yeah, well, it's been signed up for two days. But we have time. From the Communist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u4	I think that when there is daily mud, slander on its history, on the merit of its people, and still under the leadership and almost from the mouth of the President himself, and this is clear and evident enough to remember all the statements that he has recently made and to compare the fascists with those who have defeated Fascism in the face of the UN-OPA and the veterans of the Great Homeland War, ignoring the signatures of the universal referendum to hold and find out the sentiments of the people towards NATO, supporting the practically Talinian fascism, withdrawing orders from the famous world-ren of the world-renowned “Artec” and many others, which could still be argued and brought to a number of people, saying that we are truly living in such an unwarable period of time, that it may not be so violent, and that it can give birth. In this case, it is a resurgence of fascism, which, in fact, step by step takes on a clear form in our society. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that not so long ago last Friday, a certain Edim Kerimal, who was originally a Lithuanian Tatar, nephew of Mufti Muslim Lithuania, moved to Crimea for several years before the first world war, studied at the Simferopol Pedagogical Institute, then left Crimea, moved to Azerbaijan, from there to Iran, and from 1933 to Istanbul. Two years later, he moved to his uncle’s home again in Vilnius. With the outbreak of the Great Homeland War, he returned to Turkey, arrived in Berlin in December 41, where he was trying to establish a national representation loyal to the Nazi Germany. In November-December 42, he visited the occupying Crimea, where he was incorporated into the Simferopol Muslim Committee. In January 43, he was officially recognized by the Nazis as Chairman of the Crimean Tatar National Centre. On 17 March 45, the same Kerimal and its centre were recognized by Hitler's Government as the only official representation of Crimean Tatars. After the end of the Great Homeland War, he lived in Germany and died there. Tell me, this step of being buried with Germany in this case by a Nazi, especially in Crimea, in this situation and in general, in terms of morality, morality, attitude to its history, is it not a resurgence of fascism? What faction is there among those who actually organized this? And the same Jamilev and the others? They are part of the “Our Ukraine” faction, which, in fact, serves the President, who in fact serves fascism. I'd like to draw your attention to one more thing. That is to say, today, all the possibilities are being stepped up that do not allow the Constitutional Court to determine its relationship under the so-called third, second decree. There is a break-up, a helm, an open intimidation by the judges of the Constitutional Court of those who, in fact, want to carry out the supreme legal mission that they have imposed on them in accordance with their duties. In place of those who have violated the oath, in this case, I am talking about the Constitutional Judge's court, Stetsuk's speech on the part of the Presidential War. We therefore ask, on behalf of the faction, the question of the resignation of Judge Steczuk from the Constitutional Court. For one thing, I would also like to say that, perhaps the one that has not already taken place once, I think that the second will not be the Constitutional Court, I have the widow Stephen Gavrish, as a commentator who does not come down from all the agencies, must at least respect ethics if he is to be prepared to become a Constitutional Court. I urge all of you to stand on the letter of the law and prove that the decrees are unconstitutional. And thus to rise up against the resilient fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u5	Thank you. The word has Miroshnichenko from the faction of the regions, instead of Falko speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u6	Dear voters! Dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko faction of the Party of the Regions. A party of regions, together with coalition partners of national unity, has always advocated an honest and open public process of discussion and decision-making. That's how open political competition was created by the parliamentary majority, and that's how it raises the standard of living in Ukraine, and that's how the Supreme Council works today. At the same time, we express our deep concern about the situation that revolves around the work of the Constitutional Court and we express a strong protest against actions aimed at disrupting constitutional justice. The Constitutional Court is the only body, the judicial body of constitutional jurisdiction whose task is to guarantee the rule of the Basic Law throughout Ukraine. In a political situation, the COP itself has the right and the duty to act as the regulator of the social and political crisis. This position is enshrined in the Constitution and the Constitutional Court Act. In addition, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe referred to the exceptional role of the Constitutional Court in its resolution, which states: “The authority of the single body of constitutional justice of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine must be guaranteed and respected”. Waiting for the COP's decision on the constitutionality of the President's Order is the only way to get the country back on track. Elections cannot take place solely on the basis of political arrangements. Only the possibility of such a scenario would overshadow Ukraine’s hopes of being a rule of law. Political decision to hold early parliamentary elections is made and we do not refuse it. Yet the main question that we are asking today, which every citizen of Ukraine should ask, is why we are going to hold these elections. And in this connection, the decision of the COP on the constitutionality of the President’s decree on the early elections becomes extremely important. Yet we have witnessed a series of systematic illegal actions by the President's Secretariat aimed at discrediting the Constitutional Court. It seems that Presidential officials are trying to do their best to make this court cease to exist as such. To this end, a meeting of the President with the judges of the Constitutional Court was organized on the eve of the President's first presidential decree on parliamentary parliamentary elections. To that end, systematic pressure on judges was put in place during the trial. All you have to do is mention the provision of armed guards to every judge. Organized by the Secretary of the President, a press conference for a number of judges, an attempt to blackmail a judge-in-charge, to drop the trial. Presidential decrees on the dismissal of judges can also be applied to attempts to manipulate the Constitutional Court. From the point of view of law, the President violated a number of regulations that make his decrees on the release of wheat judges, Stannik and Yvashchenka to those who are subject to annulment. Thus, according to part two of article 23 of the Constitutional Court Act, the termination of a judge’s powers in the event of a violation of an oath is carried out by the Supreme Council. Emphasis, Parliament, not the President. Only on the basis of the Supreme Council’s decision to terminate the mandate of a particular judge can the President issue a decree on his dismissal. This procedure was not followed. Moreover, no legal violation of an oath was established. The mandate to establish the COP in accordance with paragraph 63 of the Rules is given to the Constitutional Court. Thus, discharge from office by a single decision of the President is contrary to legislation. The relevant decrees should be repealed, and the work of the Constitutional Court should be restored in full legal terms. Individual officials who allow themselves to be publicly questioned by the legitimacy of the Constitutional Court, to insult its judges, to accuse them of corruption, to threaten them with criminal responsibility and to openly call for the decisions of this body not only violate the basic norms of political and human ethics, but also provide for responsibility under articles 109 and 376 of the Criminal Code of Ukraine. In this context, any action taken by the President, his Secretariat, which goes beyond the powers defined by the Constitution, must be considered only as pressure on the judicial branch of power, in particular, the Constitutional Court. We call on the President to immediately stop the harsh interference.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u7	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u8	To act as guarantor of the Constitution and to uphold the rule of law. We also urge all political forces to understand the indivisibility of the moment and to refrain from any attempt to influence the judges of the Constitutional Court. Statements such as “the liars of the Constitutional Court can only accept a false decision” place the cross not only on individual personnel, but they place the cross on the rule of law in Ukraine. The next election will take place in Ukraine only after the decision of the Constitutional Court on this issue. Such an algorithm is urged by the coalition, which calls on Ukraine's European community, the Constitutional Court's decisions should be respected by all parties to the political process, and the implementation of these decisions is the only way to bring political, crisis resistance back to legal space, which will be the basis and basis for holding out-of-order elections in an honest and legitimate manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u9	I'm asking everyone to bet on the Rules. Please, Boki Ivan Sidorovich of the faction of Socialists instead of Baranowski is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u10	Dear voters, dear colleagues! As far as I'm concerned, we've all been hit in the head by an early election that some of us can't figure out what's going on. He's such an MP. From a well - known extremist faction, with the holy name of our national prophet, he learned that a package of laws and a guide to the sea would have to be voted on in a matter of hours. Holy simplicity, he thinks all 46 million, like him, go to sea. Mosquito in Ukrainian political science called Karasiov, claiming to be the grandmother of Parasky, number two, is a slow-moving electoral visa with express speed. Surprisingly, the two figures are likened to President Yushchenko. His contempt for the Constitution and the laws has become just as legendary as the undignified heads of state and any man's constant delays in his actions. Yesterday's destroyer of the Ukrainian economy is today acting as a manic destroyer of law and constitutional order in Ukraine, testifying to his manipulation of the Constitutional Court. There is, however, an equally important aspect to talk about the emptiness of early elections, rather than even the apparent inadequacy of constitutional norms. Yushchenko basically lied to the people in the presidential election when he promised to separate business from power. He could not and could not do so, for he is an uplifter and essentially obedient doer of the will of the Ukrainian capital. Look at the composition of the faction of “Our Ukraine” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko”, where they have oligarchs all the time. Relatives, dear friends, godparents, presidential supporters with billions of millions of assets make up the core of “Our Ukraine” and it is unable to poison them from power, as is done in Georgia, for example, where the parliament is miserablely expelling MPs, although somehow related to business. Meanwhile, the oligarchs who made the biggest theft of the country’s economic wealth form the foundation of power in Ukraine. The early parliamentary elections under the oligarization of the State Mechanism do not solve the main problem – the separation of business from power. The new election lists of Yashchenka and Timoshenko are filled with the same oligarchs and capitalists. The most subversive of its anti-national political project, the Lucenka Judah, is also a completely oligarchy, speculative project, created with the blessing of Yushchenko for the money of the great Ukrainian capital to deceive the disillusioned in power of the people. The Ukrainian people, under the pharisaic slogans of cleansing, are essentially calling for the conversion of the same ruiners of their own state. And here's the most important question: why do you have to make a run for it? If they do not cleanse the Supreme Council and the entire system of state life from the oligarchs, from the chassèle that overwhelms the state, what are they for? The whole point is that it's not the election that interests the President. He wants to organize a referendum during the elections on the adoption of the new Constitution and the restoration of the President's sovereignty as essentially the emperor of all Ukraine. We socialists claim, without solving the problem of separating business from power, all kinds of time choices are an affair, an adventure in which Yushchenko, Timoshenko and their brothers want to deceive the Ukrainian people just for one reason, so that their oligarchs and they themselves continue to sit on the necks of the Ukrainian people, to bring about an anti-constitutional coup d'état with the restoration, as I said, of the President's sovereignty as emperor. If our voters don't understand all the deception Yushchenko's intended adventure and fail to give it back, they can't wait for a better life in Ukraine. No dictatorship has led any nation to happiness and prosperity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u11	The word is Marmazov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u12	The distinguished colleagues, caused by the President's political crisis, pose a real threat to the domestic economy, the implementation of social programmes and increasingly affect the authority of our country. However, this seems to be the least of the concerns of Yushchenka and his associates, and they are concerned about how to take revenge, how to seize all power. We see that the European structures to address the Supreme Council on the abuse of the Constitution, the laws of the country so far by general statements, well, yesterday you watched an interview with Van der Linden. You can understand that, because Yushchenko and the orange are the forces that the West has supported in Ukraine. Therefore, condemning their wrongdoing would not seem to be at hand. At the same time, it is also open to support those who have trampled on the Constitution, tried to overthrow Parliament, and the Constitutional Court of the West is not being decided. That is why such a dual undetermined position. A month ago, Yushchenko intended to visit Israel, but his reception was denied. Official explanation: lack of time to prepare a visit, ma'am, everyone here is busy, not before you. The real reason, as the Israeli press had written, was the unwillingness of the authorities of the country to hear from Yushchenko a comparison of famine with the Holocaust so as not to spoil relations with Russia. The Ukrainian President's visit to Italy was then postponed, with his meeting with the leadership of the country and the audience of the Pope of Rome. It was recently cancelled only one day before the start of a visit by Yushchenk to Britain. Tony Blair preferred to meet with the American President. The British newspaper Independent called the situation a serious diplomatic insult. It is hard not to agree with those who feel that a recent protégé and a godmother in Europe are already perceived as a mistake. Does not the current situation with Yushchenko and the time when Kuchma became a non-exit to the West? It did not help Kuchma and what he sold through the Supreme Council was the decision to send Ukrainian troops to Iraq. Likewise, Yushchenko does not help that he is bitterly trying to group around himself obsessed with the Russian leaders of Georgia, Poland, the Baltic States. Actually, he's got no one to talk to now. Such persons are not invited into political homes. And the recent meeting between the Presidents of Russia, Kazakhstan and Turkmenistan has responded to the problem of the pressure of Russian hysteria. Unfortunately, it does not feel that this situation is fully taken into account by our Government. This could have a serious impact on the results of extraordinary parliamentary elections, if not held. I would like the heads of the Cabinet of Ministers to reflect on this, recall their pledges to the electorate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u13	Thank you for being so concise. Male Omelyan Nikonovich. Behind him is the Bubba. Baranovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u14	A boy, a faction of Communists. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, national deputies, guests! I wasn't going to speak, but my constituents made me say some words. On weekends, I met an ordinary people -- teachers, doctors, just laborers working in the village as slaves. And they asked me, what's going on in the Supreme Council? Look, it's a natural disaster. There hasn't been any rain since New Year's Eve, everything's burning, everything's drying up, nothing's coming down. And all you do is crack, talk, politics, power. So when will you think of the people? When will you think of the people? And they said to me, "Tell them that 17 governments in 16 years have proved that they can't run the country." And they're not fighting for power, they're fighting to cover up their past, they say. We say we know who sold the Black Sea fleet, we know who stole our investments, we know who robbed the Bank of Ukraine, we know who stole eight billion from the budget in six months -- our blood money, we know where 25 billion were. They want to cover up their past and save themselves. We don't need an election. You know, the village was so disruptive that in the '40s it was easier: then there was faith in people, that it would be better, that it would be better, and today this faith didn't happen in people. And once again, half-Ukraine has been weededed, half-Ukraine has already died out of the village. You come to a village where there was once a beautiful village, and there are two ruins left, and just every day a funeral and a funeral and nothing else. So they asked me: “Shame up! ” Sit in the hall, adopt normal laws that would work, not for you, but for the people, or you think only for yourself, but for the people you have forgotten, and you have asked us in blood to vote for us, we will bring you peace, peace and prosperity, we say that we do not see it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u15	Thank you. Baranowski, behind him Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u16	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Thank you, Bullby, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the national council, our distinguished and distinguished voters! According to the political battalions that have turned around in Ukraine today, the attention of all of us, Parliament in particular, is diverted from the problem that has arisen in agriculture today, which is what my colleague, Paupok, has just been talking about. I've been able to visit Crimea, Odessa, Kirovograd, part of the Cherkas region these days, and what I saw in the fields, believe me, it's causing a lot of concern. Osimi is in a very depressed state, it doesn't go down, it's said that there's no long rain -- the fields are burning, I'm not saying that the late cultures, the bright krupyans, they haven't given the stairs yet, and there's no sugar beet that we dreamed of with you. It seems to me that today we should pay attention to the government. which needs an emergency government meeting to consider the problem that is now emerging in the village. To our belief, socialists, we need to immediately review the grain balance, we need to put aside all the problematic issues that individual business representatives are asking us, which is not democratic when the government is holding grain for Ukraine's own needs. They're going to take out the last thing that's going to happen, and tomorrow we're going to re-drive the trip, so every government in every country, first of all, they're going to take care of the food security of their people. And we need to do it now, we need to do it now. To recalculate the balance, to stop the implementation of wheat, especially food crops, and to secure itself for the coming year. There is also a need to balance sugar, because today shows that there will be no crop that we have had in the past few years. We have sugar right now, but it can go somewhere again, and we're going to bring Brazil's, it's inconvenient, and we're going to blow up our manufacturer again. Don't get any. What is being produced today in the fields will surely be the problem of animal production as meat and milk. I'm taking it to the right place. The need for an emergency government meeting to consider an important issue, and appropriate action could still be taken today. We need to deal with seed stocks that are also being implemented today either for feed or for other purposes. Perhaps it would also be appropriate to consider the watery lands, to look at the electricity prices, so that the fields we have on the water could be increased and the crops guaranteed there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u17	Thank you. Bogchuk, please, Vasil Stepanovich. And then Kiselle's.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u18	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Head, distinguished national MPs, while the coalition is working on adopting new laws, increasing budget receipts, increasing the cost of wage payments for our education and medical personnel, increasing pension costs for pensioners, opposition representatives are conducting raids on our Ukrainian businesses. Yes, there was a raid yesterday on Kharkiv's Turboat. And before that, by avoiding all laws, a unique, specific company called the Luganian Trust Construction Plant was taken to the state, based on which the "Lugansk Proprietary Plant" was established in the process of being rehabilitated. The unique technological, manufacturing and human potential of the patronage industry had to be preserved as a state-owned enterprise with the necessary infrastructure. As early as 1998, however, the so - called Comfort LTD broke down the bankruptcy of the Luhansk plant. And since then, the so-called domestic investor with a hundred percent foreign capital, which is often associated with the national deputy David Zhuaniya, ZAT “Prinfort”, who was involved in the rescue of the enterprise, has not given up hope of gaining the patronage of production. Moreover, in July 2004, ZAT “Prinfort” was sold by ZAT “Lugansk patronage plant” to four economic entities, three of which are registered in the merged states and another in the UK. Let me draw your attention to this: this is at a time when we were involved in this enterprise in a list of enterprises that are not privatized. In view of this, I stress that the article of the Fifth Law of the Law of Ukraine “Recovering the Payability of the Debtor or Recognition of It by Bankruptcy” has been violated in the process of being rehabilitated by the Luganian Restoration Plant. The illegal rehabilitation of the state-owned company “Luhansk’s Trust Construction Plant” led to its being robbed and transferred to private hands outside the law and outside the transparent mechanisms of alienation. And in all of this, there's no restoration of the ability of the company and no repayment of the debt. I draw the attention of all authorities to the need to take all measures to stop the illegal activity of poor investors in the enterprise, to abolish its illegal rehabilitation and to return state property to the enterprise. Please consider my speech an official address to the Attorney General. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u19	Thank you. Make a statement, and then, form, sign. Kiselov Vasil Alexiyovich, please, instead of Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u20	Respected compatriots, respected colleagues, representatives of the media, I believe that it is already clear to all that, without amendments to the Constitution of Ukraine and the electoral legislation, the reasons that allow today and tomorrow, perhaps another opposition, to create artificially parliamentary and constitutional crises in the country will not be addressed. And when we are tried to convince us that early parliamentary elections are held in Europe, almost every year, they are from the wicked. Because no one in Europe changes electoral legislation before the elections. And that is a prerequisite if we do not want to repeat the situation. The second, yesterday's history of Timoshenko on the UT-1 channel and the requirement to conduct elections is very simple: she understands that if a voter register is established, even with the Presidential Administration, the vertical of the executive branch and the judges of the administrative courts, whom the President has recently appointed by hundreds, the opposition will not win the election. Because I understood that under articles 26 and 102 of the Electoral Act, in early parliamentary elections, most of the district and district electoral commissions would be from the coalition. And in the Western areas, we will certainly equip the electoral commissions with our associates from the south-eastern areas who will not vote for those who earn abroad. And they're from five to seven million today. If the opposition were to break the law abruptly, our representatives in the election would be forced not to sign the outcome of the vote. The categorical objections to the 50 plus 1 vote are also very simply explained. And I am pleased that, yesterday, Timoshenko admitted that in March 2006, there were massive falsifications in the ARC parliamentary elections through the use of the presidential administrative resources, when, due to errors in the translation of names, names and denominations from Russian into Ukrainian, errors in addresses, and the exacerbation of polling stations in the Crimea, they were unable to vote on about 12 per cent of the eligible voters. That is why we insist on the establishment of a voter register and on the legalization of a voter vote of at least 50 per cent. It is unacceptable that 5-10 per cent of voters allowed to participate in early parliamentary elections should decide the fate of 47 million Ukrainian citizens. I did not speak and repeat, it is unacceptable that 5 to 10 per cent of Ukraine's fate should be decided. I would like to point out that it is not accidental for the President to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council in advance, but for the President to consult with the leadership of the Supreme Council and not to announce the date of the elections, but to decide by consensus whether to hold early elections, including to agree on the date of the elections, otherwise not to hold the elections. Whoever didn't get it right away, I hope they understand today. But if they keep going.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u21	Ten seconds, let it finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u22	They will continue to create lawlessness and will go to elections without reaching agreement among all political forces, including those that have not gone to Parliament today, in my view we do not, unfortunately, avoid a national strike. Therefore, I propose that the working group make the appropriate proposals, make amendments to the room and to all members of Parliament, so that the date of the early elections can be set in an orderly and legitimate manner, except for the possibility of falsification. And in conclusion. I want to speak to you, Alexander Alexandrovich. On 19 May, the Act amending the budget of Ukraine was due to be published. According to article 94, the President is obliged to sign, if he refuses to sign, to perform his duty, you are obliged to publish this law in the Voice of Ukraine in 15 days under his signature. Yes, I understand that there are legal nuances, but what the President is doing today has gone beyond the Constitution at all. This law, San Sanjic, is awaiting 17 million citizens today, and has to be implemented by Kabmin since 1 June. That's why I insist that you publish it by your signature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u23	Instead of Kalashnikov, Falko is speaking, this is the last performance, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u24	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! Dear Head, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! I went to the high court of the only existing higher-level legislative body, the only one, while still the existing state of Ukraine, to warn us all of us of the inevitable misery. They're not scarecrows, and they're not trying to join a common, shameful rhetoric. I had just returned from Santa’s home with my own eyes. Perhaps we were already very angry with the god that he didn't give a drop of rain to our fields, that he sent such droughts and droughts that destroyed the winter and the spring and the food and the sunflower. Dear friends! This year’s southern bread will not yield meat and milk, vegetables and fruits, and summer heat and cold in winter. Mr. President, you've been so involved in revolutions and divisions that you don't notice how and how people live, to whom you so much like to turn and trust, you're always in the creative process of decrees and elections. You are going to go without anyone in the country and choose, and then you, Mr. President, will not have to look for those who are guilty of artificial hunger, you and your ‘teachers’, ‘kirylka’, ‘luchenka’ and other ‘enka’ and your livestock. The peasants of Mikolayovska invite you, Mr. President, to hold a visiting meeting of the working group and the Security Council on the early elections in the Ochakovsky or Novobussky areas where bread has been destroyed. And perhaps there, Mr. President, you will make the only right decision -- to abolish your electoral decrees, to bring the state back to the legal field, and together with the government, and the Supreme Council will immediately start to influence the internal and external threats, because trouble does not go alone. We are already being warned about rising prices for gas and coal, and I do not think that the EU and NATO will be sifting in our fields, producing feed for livestock, or immediately banning the export of bread from Ukraine. Rather, on the contrary, it will continue to raise the prices of belief and the happy Ukrainian people without bread and warmth under the orange slogans of Grandma Parasky and the megastar songs and the heroine Heartyka will go to the polls. Mr. President is in trouble, in the heads and souls of trouble, in the state of trouble! The billions needed for the elections are given to the villagers. There are more than 300 million damage to the drought in Santa Claus alone. You're probably in Kanev right now, and I'm asking you to bow down to Cobzar, pray to the Council of Spears and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u25	Thank you. Let's take a brief summary of the discussion. Here was the report that MPs who refer to themselves as opposition write statements and prepare for the assembly today, there, tomorrow or so, let their business be held by assemblies. Propose your credentials. I would like to remind them, in accordance with the procedure provided for in the Rules, and according to the requirements of the Constitution, that statements should be registered first in the Supreme Council. In addition, there is a procedure provided for by the Rules that should be certified in the Personnel Administration. I'm reminding the MPs who want to be in charge, sign your signatures on the HR applications. And then you don't have to talk, you don't have to talk, you don't have to call people, you have to beat yourself in the chest, and it's going to be clear: Keep that in mind. And that's what I'm saying, and the information that's appropriate for citizens who listen to television, and I'm proving that everything that's being done in the face of the Constitution and the law is illegal, and it's not being looked at anywhere, and that's why it's just a crack, and it's nothing. The other one. There was a suggestion regarding the Constitutional Court judge Stewik that we were determined to consider the matter of violating his oath. I address Gregory Illashov, head of the committee. If the committee is willing to report on this, if all procedural points are met, because we cannot repeat the examples of others who violate the order set, they break the law. Because you remember that article 19 of the Constitution states that all actions of officials of the authorities are carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the law. So if all procedural points are met under the law, let's put this question to the Supreme Council on Thursday and look at it essentially. Give the word Illashov how ready you are to consider the matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u26	It'll be ready by Thursday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u27	Will it be ready for Thursday? Then let us vote on the question of putting the matter into the order of the day on a Thursday. Is there no objection? Please, I'll bet you a vote. But once again, I ask that the committee be prepared with all the nuances provided for in the law. [[10:49:45.]] For 255 That's the decision to make. Next. Vasil Alexiyovich said, no, it was Miroshnichenko who said that the decision, as to whether the elections would be held, was made and so on. I want to say that a decision has been made, the content of which is that the coalition and the factions that are part of it, the parties that have created, which are represented by factions, aren't afraid of the early elections, are ready for them, but these elections should be legal, not made from the ceiling as a basis for conducting them. We're ready to work out legislation, we're ready to go to the early elections, if there's a legal basis for this, and no one can interfere with people's minds that this decision is made because you see, there are political arrangements. Political arrangements have no meaning compared to the Constitution. I'd like you to know that. Political arrangements should be based on the rules of the Basic Law and the legislation of Ukraine in general. And with regard to the information that Ivan Sidorovich said about the suspicion that I believe has every reason to believe that he would want to use the election to hold the referendum. This is explained and it is clear to the audience that something strange is being done in the world when they insist on participating in other parties in the elections. It's not a demonstration of democracy, it's not a desire to uphold democracy, it's a completely understandable action, because the referendum, the referendum law, provides for more than half of the voters to participate in it. And if these parties that are represented in the coalition don't go to the polls, there's not going to be 50 percent. And then the referendum won't work, and the attempt to do it through a referendum of the Constitution, which is the legal formulation of authoritarianism or dictatorship, is the desire of those who talk about fair elections, the change in voter pressure, the transformation of coalition and other nonsense. I'd like us to understand what's behind the good words, because we're actually predicting an adventure that we can't afford. And that's why I insist once again that we consider essentially the changes to the Constitution that come out of the February 8, 2004, which are confirmed by the presence here in the hall by about three hundred leaders of the local authorities, who have to transfer authority to the places, not to play the monarchy, because there will be no monarchy in Ukraine. I would like everything to be well remembered, for then we will never be a European state; we can be a European state only if we have a model of governance for European countries. What Omelyan Nikonovich and Deputy Falco and Baranowski and others said about the situation in the village. It's true, it's a great disaster, and today we need to concentrate on finding resistance to such a disaster, because today some processes in the agricultural sector have gone irreversibly from the point of view of crop cultivation and the prospect of harvesting, etc. That's what I'm talking about. And that's why we need to concentrate our efforts at the level of the state right now, and Falco said right now, we need to hold a Security Council meeting in the Mikolai district in the field somewhere, not forcing the Security Council to engage in elections that are not its function, but for that there are other structures: Parliament, the Central Election Commission, other authorities. Proposal to promulgate the Act on Budget Change, which foresees an improvement in wages, a pension for 17 million people in Ukraine. I would sign this law with a dear soul, more faithfully, and I have no right to do so under the present Constitution. We are proposing changes to the Constitution that make it easier for such laws to be promulgated. That is, if in 15 days, today, the Constitution says yes, the President has not vetoed, it means not to make proposals, not to make comments to this law, the law is considered approved and made public, but to be signed by the President. And it's not said, according to the President's signature, but it's announced by him, I ask you, that this is the situation and it is clear that if, after a veto overtaken within 10 days, the law is not signed by the President, then it will be promulgated by the signing of the Supreme Council. I've already spoken at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, we can make this law public as one voted by the Supreme Council but not in force. Let people ask questions to local administrations, social services, and so on why are these payments not made? Money has been set aside, and Parliament has made a decision. All the manipulations around it are all about basic things, trying to show that Parliament doesn't work, but there is a Parliament, it works. And here one of the heads of the district councils spoke correctly at a meeting of the Advisory Council, he said: “I am addressing twice the dissolved and three times the legitimate Parliament.” He was absolutely right. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will come to Ukraine, in the walls of Parliament, an active Parliament holding meetings of the political committee, the most authoritative committee of the Council of Europe, we have sought five years before we are admitted to the European States. Copy that. We're here. Important questions are being considered. The Foreign Minister cannot be called to a meeting, invited, warned at the right time, and yesterday evening the committee representatives tell me: “Listen, a woman from France, the Head of the French Parliament’s Committee of Profiles, who is 15 years in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, says, ‘For the first time in fifteen years I see a foreign minister not going to meet with colleagues!’ And there are either former ministers, or future ministers, or current committee heads in European parliaments. I mean, where else can we live? It turns out, the President's Secretariat has given a team -- we don't have a parliament. They were weak people, did not think it was not a decision of the Ukrainian Parliament, it was a decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to hold committee meetings in Kiev! Well, shame is what you know to go through the ground. I came yesterday to welcome the participants of this session, the Parliamentary Committee, and I do not find the words to explain. I'm not going to say that he runs the Ministry of the President's Department or that someone in the office then places a dot over the "and" commenting on the Constitution, because, you see, it occurred to him that there is no parliament because an unconstitutional decree has been issued. That's not Parliament anymore. And here's how they're going to issue an order, if they agree to, they're going to let Parliament come together, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, they're going to do it, and they're going to do it, and they're going to do it. I almost said an uncensored word. You'll find an example in the world to do something like that. I think my emotions in this case are well understood. It's just a shame for Ukraine that we let it happen. I'd like to see some analogys you know about rurals. I'm eight years old and I'm five years old, and I know that if there's a bull in a herd like that in a specific condition, there's no explanation. There will be no sense, either to remove it, or to bind it, for order will never be. [[Applause]] What is happening today in Ukraine, when I repeat by packs, is that 65 court leaders are appointed by decree in contravention of the Constitutional Court's decision that the President cannot do this because he does not have such a right in the Constitution, it is not provided for in the Constitution. What does that mean? How can the Kiev District Court be asked to make a proposal at the signature of the Head of State to decide that the Constitutional Court cannot enforce its decision prohibiting the President from making such decisions. If someone in the world were to give an example like this, we'd say we're doing the same thing. There are no such examples. We make discoveries legal, legal, constitutional for the whole world weird, but they're done anyway. So I am deeply convinced that we should have a line that we can endure and continue to lead. We respect the Constitution, we respect the laws, we respect the parliament works, we don't violate any laws, and we understand that there's a mass counterfeiting of the vote in a referendum or an election. And we want to say that the holture won't pass, we won't miss it. We have been chosen by the people, trusting us with the right to do so, and we will benefit from these rights, because in doing so we protect the interests of the State, the interests of society, the interests of every citizen. And let no one impose other thoughts on any purpose, because that's exactly the answer, today is the day that Taras Shevchenk is buried. I was there yesterday in Caneva and quoted some of Shevchenk’s phrases. Fortunately, I know him well and love him. Yes, he refers there when in the verse “It’s the same to me whether I live in Ukraine or not, ” he says: I don't care if it will. Whether that son should pray or not. But it's not the same to me. As Ukraine’s Wicked People They will fall asleep, wicked, and in the fire She'll be awakened, robbed. Oh, it's not the same to me. So, this skeleton is being laid out today under the general agenda on human rights, on democracy, on the integrity of the spirit of the Constitution, and we need to be faithful to the letter of the Constitution if we want a system in the state. I would like us to be on that line and continue our work. People will understand us because we are acting in the legal field in the interests of society. Thank you. [[Applause]] A draft Law on the State Property Fund and the administration of state property is under consideration. Please report to Teether Mikhailo Vasilovich, National MP. By the time he gets here, give Zybenko a word of procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u28	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Alexandre Alexandrovich, me. The Communist faction, Zybenko. I want to raise the question of day-to-week order formation and another plenary day. There was a consensus council yesterday. I made a proposal for the inclusion of two bills in the agenda. The Conciliation Council made, as I understand it, a collegiate decision. Then some employee of the machine, who, I know, and you know, cancels this decision on his own. How long will this continue? If my opinion as a national deputy, as chairman of the committee, as a member of the faction, is not interesting, if it can be cancelled by any employee of the apparatus, then I will stop, in fact, going to the conciliatory board. This is not the first time!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u29	Thank you. First time, first time. And secondly, if you have that resentment and your passion is completely understandable, you could go in, not at the sessional session, but at the beginning of the question. I'll find out what it is. I'll find out what's going on, but this is not the will of the official, it's the previous information. Please tell me, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u30	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, has been able to establish and privatize lands of state property in Ukraine, and more than 51 per cent of the land is now owned by citizens and legal persons. At the same time, 49 percent of Ukraine’s land funds remain in government property. And once government and municipal property are allocated, about 35 percent of the land is projected to be owned by the state. Today, according to the Constitution of Ukraine and the Land Code, the administration of the land of state ownership is carried out: the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, local government administrations, and local government authorities of various levels. The Ukrainian Ministry of the Interior, the Ukrainian State Department, the State Property Fund, a number of other ministries and offices perform certain functions of land administration. The dispersion of state ownership between the various executive authorities and local self - government has contributed in recent years to the activation of the land market by systematic violations of land laws. Such a situation required the development of a draft Ukrainian Law on the Fund for Lands of State Property and the administration of the land of state ownership. The conceptual idea behind the bill is to focus the administration of the land of state ownership in one government body – the establishment of the State Property Fund as a central executive body on land relations as a state accounting institution, the identification of legal and organizational principles and mechanisms for the operation of a special state ownership fund, as well as the creation of a single system of public authorities on land relations issues, but. But in view of the fact that the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations at its meeting decided to send the bill to the authors. In connection with the committee. The scientific expertise has made a huge number of observations and also recommends that this bill be sent for further work. And the third. And given that the main authors are not in this imperfect room for today’s law, I also propose that this law be postponed. send this bill to the authors. Perhaps they will come to the Supreme Council and make this offer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u31	The question for Mikhail Vasilovich is, isn't it? There's a question for Tweak and Dry. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u32	Thank you. Tuck, Communist faction. Dear Mikhail Vasilovich, the question is certainly the right one, and we can see if it is already in the state. 30-35 percent of the land remains in state property -- that's a collapse in Ukraine, first. And secondly, as you think, after the liquidation of the Statecomme, the Cabinet of Ministers did not consult anyone, it was an illiterate decision. I'd say straight, anti-State. The Cabinet of Ministers had no right to do that. Today, a proposal is made in this bill to create the Fund. What fund? He was the State Commission at the level of the Ministry, which was in charge of everything. All the land resources of the state, and the Prime Minister has someone set up to subdue who? The Ministry of Culture. I'm kidding. I'm telling the Ministry of Worship.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u33	Dear Alexander Mikolaiovich, as far as I know, Derzcomym, as a structure, is not eliminated, and you know it. They just renamed it and called it now instead of the State Commission -- they called it the State Department. I think it's quite temporary. I agree with you that this should be a serious agency, not an agency, but probably not a ministry on its own. Because today the disturbance in the use of land, in the sale of land, is so much that we're going to get to what you said from the beginning. I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u34	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u35	Thank you. Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions, Zaporozhye Dear Mikhaylo Vasilovich, I have a very narrow question about your broad issue, but it is extremely painful for our voters, as is said by a huge post office with complaints coming from places. Something unclear is happening in Ukraine around the issue of State acts on land, such as under individual construction. You know, for months, people are in line, and there, in turn, they're unconscious -- and they're not trying to get this government act. Please tell us who is now specifically responsible for the issue of such acts, for, for example, it is impossible to establish ownership of the land that has been inherited. Well, just, if we're talking about a shadow economy, think about billions of dollars going there: in those shaped shares. And believe me, today, I don't know why we're going to be sending this bill. I'd take it in the first reading because we need some kind of structure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u36	As before, and now, the former “Demand” and now “Demandhood” remain responsible for this problem. They created departments that deal with issues of the issuing of State acts. You're absolutely right, and I know it's more messy than order there today. There are huge queues, there, more, different places of pay. There's a lot of disturbances, there's a lot of order, I agree with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u37	Paul Gnatovich, Sulkowski, also asked questions. Give Sulkovsky a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u38	Thank you. My colleagues have just come forward, and Mr. Jaroslav Suhi and, indeed, there is a question of why, when the question really needs to be intervened immediately today, bring about a system of land accounting and state acts. Indeed, there are serious problems in Ukraine, and peasants are concerned about the work that the previous State Committee on Land Relations has done with these, practically, woes. Especially two years ago, the government of Yulia Timoshenko and Yehanurov allowed unprofessional people from the State Land Committee to put down people who were inexperienced. And they've basically slowed down this work -- both state acts, and accounting, and so on. So today the government is also asking the faction of the Party of Regions that it is still necessary to learn this issue and to take immediate action to bring it up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u39	That's not a question, that's the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u40	Well, I think that's a question, that's actually a proposition that fits my offer. I'm asking Mikhail Vasilovich Gladys within the functions of the committee, the control functions of the committee to analyse the situation today with land management, to prepare an appropriate note, a request, or a parliamentary request to the committee, to the government. Let the legal order be indicated in this regard. Because, indeed, such complaints come from every region, especially in suburban areas. So I think this is a very serious question. And in the end, the government in this case has to intervene and bring about a legal order. Please sit down, Mikhail Vasilovich. Are there any who would like to make a statement on this subject? Can we support the committee's position that this law should be amended, taking into account the comments made in the document, the authors, the authors of the law for processing? No other suggestions? Then I put to the vote draft decree 3037 on. Registration number, about sending the draft law to the authors. [[11:12:47]] For 254 Decision taken. A draft Law on Prevention, Diseases Caused by Any Inadequacy is under consideration. The committee head, Tetjana Dmitrovna Bachteev, reports on this matter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u41	Honourable Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, the draft Law on State and Infirmities Caused by One Inadequacy, 2807, was discussed several times in committee meetings. During his discussion with the National Deputies, many comments were made, especially a sharp discussion that led to a general, 100 percent, the iodine of all cooking and feeding salt produced and imported into Ukraine. Among scientists, practical doctors, and the public there is not yet a single thought about the purpose of using to overcome an iodine deficiency. The experience of some European countries, such as Germany, Italy, and Russia, has also proved this. The committee approached very carefully. That's the answer to that question. We invited representatives of the Academy of Medical Sciences, leading scientists in endocrinology, pediatrics, hygiene, practical doctors, representatives of public organizations and international experts to our meetings. The last such meeting, with the participation of the head of the UNICEF mission in Ukraine, took place on May 18, this year. The committee supports the decision that each family should be equally accessible and iodized and not iodine salt. With regard to this bill, I would like to stress that in the committee's deliberations, its low technical and legal enforcement was the main reason for the decision to reject it. The main scientific and expert office also recommends rejecting it, not supporting the bill of the Supreme Council Committee of Law and Budget, nor does it support the law of the Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine. In view of what has been said, the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the 2807 project. In order to eliminate any shortages in some areas of Ukraine, the Cabinet of Ministers is invited to develop and submit an appropriate national programme for approval. Now the committee is also working on a new draft of the law. Thank you for your attention, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u42	Is there a question for Aunt Dmitry? Aunt Dmitrovna, you can see it this way, someone wants to advertise and they start, let's take the law to buy one or the other. So please take advantage of television, write there, that if you eat salt like that, there will be no 98 percent caries for children. A 48 - percent increase in men will continue to do so. And then they'll cook salt, but for that we have to pay, no, take the law, and then we will, so let's all sell toothpaste through the law. I think it's the right position for the committee, we have to reject this project, and as long as it's not clear what it is, there's no danger to the population, then we can form it by law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u43	It's been five years.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u44	Thank you, have a seat. There's a proposal that's quite clear, so I'm putting to the vote a draft ruling on this 2,807 registration number, on the rejection of the law on disease warnings caused by an inadequacy. [[11:17:07]] For 257 Decision taken. It is proposed to include in the order of the day and to make a decision regarding the draft Law on Scientific Parks. I'm voting on the proposal to put the issue in order. [[11:17:36]] For 256 Decision taken. This question is then considered and reported by the head of the science and education subcommittee Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u45	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! For your consideration of the first reading, a bill on scientific parks is presented. The bill was prepared with the positive results of the creation of the Kyiv Science Park, we voted with you at the end of last year, and agreed that if the introduction of the scientific park in Kyiv's Technology will be successful, we will adopt a law that will distribute similar conditions for the creation of innovation and scientific activities on other leading Ukrainian Unions. Today's bill defines the legal, organisational and economic principles for the establishment of scientific parks as scientific and manufacturing associations of the fourth level of accreditation and/or scientific institution, which are fundamental elements of the scientific park, which combine with innovation structures and management entities for the execution of scientific and technological projects, the promotion of scientific research and the practical implementation of their results. The drafters are confident that its adoption and further creation of scientific parks in leading universities and leading scientific institutions will allow for the promotion and practical implementation of scientific innovation. At the same time, we will be able to reduce the extremely dangerous gap in science and education, create effective conditions for students to engage in scientific and innovative projects from future employment, because the situation of science and education disruption is critical. We discussed this at committee hearings at the end of last year. I'm only going to give you one world fact. Over the past 50 years, 92 percent of Nobel Prizes, except for literature and peace - strengthening, have been handed to scientists, represent university or related science. And we have, according to the official statistics that I have, I think the situation here is worse, only each of the three scientists combines scientific activity with teaching. So what level of higher education can we talk about? At the same time, with the appropriate support of the state, based on the scientific parks that can be created after the adoption of this law, I'm sure that points of innovative growth and technological breakthroughs can be created that will further ensure our nation's transition to an innovative path of development. The bill received support from the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, a professional committee on science and education, other committees of the Supreme Council and supported by the Council of Coalitions. Please support the proposals for the adoption of the bill in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u46	Is there a question for Yuri Vasilovich? Please sign up. That's the question. If these are scientific parks according to the model of KPI, they should be introduced because it is really the center of university science that is wonderful. with samples that do not give rise to doubt.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u47	Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u48	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. The distinguished rapporteur, the question of the creation of scientific parks, no doubt the important and promising question of the development of our science, basic science, which today is very lagging and blubbering in relation to the situation that is today, but again, all of these things have to do with the tax field. All this stuff is mixed with excises. All these things are intertwined with the benefits there is. Unfortunately, this bill does not have any economic justification. I mean, we really don't see what to date, what calculations, what real incomes it will give, and what this will actually mean is that the budget is going to be lost. I would like to hear at least in the first approach whether there are any preliminary calculations for the basis for the calculation of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u49	Unfortunately, the bill provides for a very limited number of benefits. Of course, scientific and innovation activities should have benefits, as in other countries of the world, because otherwise they will not develop sufficiently, but perhaps we do not have a society ready now to provide large-scale benefits in one area or another. The bill provides for customs benefits for importing scientific and research equipment into prospectors. So this equipment will be imported by permission, by order of the Cabinet of Ministers and by permission of the Ministry of Profiles, this is the scientific equipment that is not produced in Ukraine. Like a nanomicroscope or something. If the surveyors are created in 10 or 15 leading universities in Ukraine and perhaps even in ten leading scientific institutions in Ukraine, the import of this equipment will be meagre and no damage will be caused by the state. [[WUZah]] It's touching.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u50	Let me finish, but you better answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u51	So it's probably not very correct, because science and innovation are profitable in themselves, but out of the ten innovations that are starting to develop, it can be implemented and it's only going to go to the final state of development. So, of course, he's going to have a profit for the state and the colleges, but the main thing is, we're creating conditions for the development of science and the involvement of this university.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u52	Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u53	Yuri Vasilevich, Deputy Bronnikov, Regions, Zaporozhye. No, the failure to create conditions for the work of science in Ukraine will lead to Ukraine falling into the ranks of third-class power suppliers. We're on the verge that the last of the so-called scientists are going to work in the West, whether Russia, where we know the money has been wasted. But the science park must provide for an international exchange. And these are the benefits for the science park to attract scientists to cooperate, scientists. There is no world in your law. Or do you think we should finish reading again?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u54	Well, once again, the question of the benefits, it's not the time right now, it's probably in our country and the drafters of the bill deliberately didn't include a broad list of benefits. This article, it was discussed with the scientific community and the public of higher education institutions, and it's going to be good for scientists right now. What's going to happen next is that I also agree with you that we need to develop this direction. You can give an example of work, it's just, it's just started working as a "CIP" scientist, but there's already tens of millions of dollars in proposals for creating joint labs for research in the field of IT from the eastern countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u55	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u56	The Socialist faction, Mikola Sadowa. The faction of socialists has always supported the idea of creating scientific parks, because this is the future of our production, this is the future of our state, just as it is all over the world. We have, for example, the Kharkiv Physico-Technical Institute, where there's an enormous amount of labor and there, in fact, a science park is already being created, and we just need to get it into a wide range of introductions. We've started nanotechnological development. Something is made out of a nuclear energy cycle. But I have a question of this order. Innovation projects and development priorities. That's agreed upon in the bill, is it a development or not? And as for five years before implementation. Is that reasonable or not?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u57	What concerns development priorities is that in order for the state base, because we have the branches and the scientific research institutions, they are state-owned today, so the special authority of the central authority is today the Ministry of Education and Science, for a particular science park, is going to approve the priorities of activity. What touches your question if, for five years, it is a term that has also been accepted by the scientific community. In fact, it's the deadline for projects to be implemented for scientific and innovative projects. That's enough. Because today's world, it's very fast. And science and innovation projects haven't been developed in years. Five years from now, they can grow old.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u58	Please sit down. Do you need to talk about this project? In this case, support is given in the first reading of the project. And I don't think that's going to raise any doubt. So we'll assume that you agree if you support, of course, the vote. I'm betting on this motion, registration number 3269, for the adoption of the Law on Scientific Parks in the first reading. [[11:28:59]] For 251 A decision is made. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on responsibility for the release and sale of inadequacies]] Fedorczuk Jaroslav Petrovich or Tetjana Dmitrovna immediately assumes responsibility. The Head of the Committee on Health Care of the Bahtejev Tetjana Dmitrovna has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u59	Dear Head, distinguished national MPs. The Health Committee discussed a draft of the Ukrainian Law on Amendments and Supplements to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the Responsibility for the Release and Sale of Inadequate Medical Devices, submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedorchuk. After reviewing this bill, the committee notes that its position requires substantial conceptual and technical legal work. Article 227 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code already criminalizes the release to the commodity market or the implementation of poor - quality products for consumers. The bill uses the term “negative for medical treatment”, “untrustworthy medical instruction”, “ health damage”, but its meaning is not disclosed in the bill. At the same time, in our view, this bill needs to define such concepts as “false medical devices”, “by-product” and “by-products”, “by-product” and “by-products”. I believe that article 27 of the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices should be given in a new edition, not a new article. The title of the article is proposed in such an edition “Responsibility for health damage caused by medical use, violation of medical legislation”. The provisions of this article clearly provide for all cases where a manufacturer of medical devices or a subject of their implementation must compensate for the damage caused by health or by human life. The Committee considers that the legislative proposal for amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Medical Devices requires substantial technical and legal work. Taking into account the above and the conclusions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Export Authority, the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers, on the rejection of the bill, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine reject the bill submitted by the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedorchuk. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u60	Is there a question for Aunt Dmitry? Jaroslav Dryhogo has a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u61	Aunt Dmitrovna and the distinguished national MPs, I very much ask you to let us refer to this bill in a human way: we vote without a race and we immediately vote. This is a problem that concerns every Ukrainian family today. Yes, we do not have criminal liability in the Criminal Code for trafficking and that people are involved in unkind drugs, such as domestic insulin, which is then forced to seek, not domestically, but imported, for large sums of money. So, for example, I want to ask you, Aunt Dmitry, as the head of the profile committee. So you're going to do a rejection or a back-up. Because you made specific comments, including article 227 of the Criminal Code. If you say no, it's going to be a disaster. If you work hard, then tell me, can it be further worked out for the authors of the bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u62	This bill has to be rejected because it is a repetition of those bills and the Criminal Code that I said before, 227 because there is responsibility, this is article 364, 368, and a new version of that law. Accordingly, this committee is working on such a very important one and is needed for Ukraine. And this one can't be taken over.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u63	So what we're talking about is that the standards in this project are already regulated, they need to be used simply. And the same 227 article in the CC, the Criminal Code, is meant to be used, not used.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u64	It's all over again. We'll be new. work on a new bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u65	Aunt Dmitrovna, let's make this decision. If we support the Committee's proposal on deviation, we'll have the committee prepare an appropriate draft law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u66	Yes, it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u67	We're giving the committee a profile task to prepare the bill, aren't we? Then I put to the vote this motion for rejection, i.e. the draft regulation 2843 is supported, but let's add: to the task of preparing a draft law for consideration by the Supreme Council. [[responsible Bachelor Tetjana Dmitrovna]] I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[11:34:47]] For 245 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government is under consideration. [[on the decision-making mechanism]] Kuzmenko has Sergey Leonidovich, head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u68	Dear colleagues, the authors of the law are proposing to amend the Local Self-Government Act in part of the decision-making procedure. The fundamental question is this: today's decision-making procedure is most of the Council's defined composition, just as we in the Supreme Council most of the constitutional composition is proposed -- most of the actual composition of the Council. That is, if the council is understaffed, then the decision is made by a majority of the actual composition. The proposal cannot be supported because it violates the will of the citizens who voted in favour of the council, and it makes a difference in the decision-making procedure for councils of different levels. If the Supreme Council maintains the principle of constitutional majority of constitutional composition, another principle of decision-making will be introduced in local self-government. The conclusion of the science-expert department says that it's proposed to reject this law. The committee considered and at the committee meeting there was also an offer to reject the law. I invite my colleagues to support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u69	The report is complete. Is there a question for Sergei Leonidovich? Absolutely. Any questions? Please. Then write it down again. Sign up. Boki. Yegorenko. Please. Aunt Vasilyvna seems to be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u70	The presence of a number of deputies is usually decisive in the decision-making process of any council. And with experience in this work, I think that to support the reporter on this subject, because I think there might be only one answer -- that in the Supreme Council, the village council should have the only legal approach and that, by the way, the Constitutional Court also insists. Leave as it was without altering that determination.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u71	Note that this is not your question, but your presentation. Yeah? Offer. Santa Claus, what do you say?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u72	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Well, it's likely that in Kirovograd there is such a great deal of experience as to the election of both the local councils and the activities of the city council directly and the deputies elected there. There, for a considerable period of time, the local business is overwhelmingly, figuratively speaking, beating up those deputies who are in that faction, and there is no harmony and harmony there. And this bill certainly needs to be rejected, because if there is a small group of people who define that fate of people, electors of the entire city or region, then there is no order, and so is no order. So I realized that the committee was on the right track and that I was supporting it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u73	So there was one suggestion: to support the committee's proposal to reject the project. Then I'm voting on this motion to reject this bill. [[Registration number 3095]] [[11:39:49]] For 252 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on the Humanization of Criminal Responsibility is under consideration. We are looking at this project at the proposal of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And the word is given by the Minister of Justice, Mr. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u74	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The project that you are considering is one of Ukraine’s important obligations to the Council of Europe, but the greatest commitment to our citizens, since it has a goal that is sufficiently important in terms of human rights. He proposes to humanize the system of criminal punishment. And it's possible to solve this through partial decriminalization of actions and by introducing a more differentiated approach to the choice of penalties for crimes. This project is based on the principle of social justice, according to which every criminal sanction should not only be in line with the degree of social danger and the law of action, but also to comply with the sanctions envisaged for other crimes of the same degree of gravity, and to allow the court to individualize punishment against the circumstances of a particular crime. In general, the changes envisaged in the project are designed to improve the position of 24 articles of the general section and 72 articles of a particular section of the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The general section of the codex offers some serious money. The first is the order in which the principle of the reverse action of the criminal law in time is implemented. Second, this refers to article 53 on fines, which provides for the possibility of payment of fines on a schedule. That is, when a convicted person is unable to pay a fine in his material condition, it is possible to do so by the age of 3 years, because, in order not to apply more severe sanctions, deprivation of liberty. Amendments to the 65th article are also envisaged, and it is proposed to introduce a sufficiently clear principle of sentencing, according to which a more severe type of punishment in the number of alleged crimes is to be imposed only if a less severe form of punishment is not sufficient to correct the individual and warn him or her of new crimes. It is also anticipated that the list of mitigating circumstances provided for in article 66 will be supplemented by a medical provision. Or other assistance to the victim immediately after the crime has been committed. That's especially true. It's often enough to investigate criminal cases involving traffic accidents. To ensure the implementation of the Constitutional Court’s decision also in the distribution of article 69, the purpose of a more mild punishment than provided for by the Ukrainian Criminal Code for persons who committed crimes of minor gravity, providing for the possibility of giving such persons a more mild punishment than provided for by law. To improve standards that regulate the criminal responsibility of minors. The project also takes into account the victim’s interest in providing compensation. Yes, according to the project, one of the mandatory conditions for the removal of a guilty person’s conviction is the full compensation for the damage suffered, or the removal of the damage. A special part of the Code provides for the removal of certain rules when the protection of relations against which acts are directed is entirely possible by other articles or parts of articles of the Criminal Code. There are a number of such articles that are also intended to expand the list of types of penalties for alternative deprivation of liberty applied by courts. [[I'm not going to give examples right now.]] This is particularly true of the articles of the Criminal Code, which provide for responsibility for the most common crimes in society at present without burdensome circumstances, particularly theft – 185, robbery – 186, deliberate destruction or damage to property – 194, hooliganism and other articles. It is intended to reduce sanctions in the form of deprivation of liberty in cases of unjustified or excessive use of criminal repression. It is also envisaged that the articles contained in separate chapters of the Criminal Code of Ukraine provide typical sanctions that reflect the degree of social danger of the relevant categories of crime, depending on the sphere and the object of the attack, which are appropriate to the degree of social danger of crime. Also in connection with the decriminalisation of individual actions, such as article 188 “The theft by dismantling and other means of electricity networks, cable lines and their equipment” of the Criminal Code of Ukraine, the project is designed to make appropriate changes to the Criminal Procedure Code of Ukraine. Scientists from all leading Ukrainian law schools from Kharkiv, Kiev, Odessa, Lviv, and practical law enforcement officials, judges of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, representatives of the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine and directly representatives of the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine participated in the development of this project. The adoption of the proposed amendments to the Criminal Code will provide greater opportunities for the court, personalize the punishment of those who have committed crimes, apply the forms of punishment that are softer compared to being deprived of the will, you know that we are one of the leaders of the number of people who are in places where they are deprived of the will. And this will also contribute to the effective achievement of the goals of correction and warning of the commission of new crimes at the same time and will facilitate the return to life in society. At the same time, in the Supreme Council of Ukraine there is another draft law that is also in order today, and unlike all previous approaches, I would like to say a few words about this fact, because it was unusual enough to encounter that registered draft law that virtually literally reproduces this project, which is the acquisition of a wide range of scientists and practitioners who worked for a government decision to make a quality document. It was introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy, with the provision of some systemsless supplements that do not allow them to appreciate positively at the same time the fact that such a serious project is taken simply to bring it in and bring it in a few days before what has been developed for a long time is not a good example of how individual Ukrainian national deputies can work with the results of the work of a large number of respected lawyers of Ukraine. I ask you to support the work carried out in Ukraine by Ukrainian scientists and supported by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine as a government legislative initiative for your consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u75	Is there a question for the reporter? Please sign up. We've got seven minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u76	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. The Socialist faction is fast. Alexander Volodymyrovich! You know, it's very impressive the beginning and content of your performance today. Especially the beginning when you said that you were just about to draft this bill, taking into account the proposals for a resolution of the Council of Europe. This indicates that today we are really beginning to take a hard look at our legislation. And we take into account not only our present problems but also the problems that exist in Europe as a whole, and we link ourselves as a European state. You know, it's very right and it's very highly valued. And I'd just like to ask you a question like that. There's a notion of a fine in the schedule. Please tell me, what's the stability fund going to be here? That is, how can you assign a person who will be obliged to pay this fine on a schedule that he will, in fact, after two or three years, as the court will determine? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u77	This isn't about establishing a stable fund, as you said. The point is that if there's a person who has the right information about the impossibility of paying a one-time fine, which is tried by a court, the court can decide on a year's schedule for two to three years, not more than three years. If a person found guilty of criminal proceedings does not execute judgment, he will make his circumstances worse and then the court will return to another sanction. And that is the guarantee that this fine will be paid.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u78	Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u79	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. Well, I'm reading pretty well here, and I'm basically in agreement with my colleague Shibk, a socialist. But I read this: “They are not criminally responsible for the diversion, banditry and terrorist act of persons who committed crimes between the ages of 14 and 16. ” We know very well that many crimes such as banditry are committed at such an age. What, then, will be their other responsibility? Because when we go to civil society and when we approach it enormously, we can do humanization and it will be justified. Then, when we are not ready to do so, please tell us how ready we are to bring about such widespread humanization for those who commit such serious crimes. And will this contribute to the reduction? — Matthew 24: 45 - 47.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u80	Thank you for asking. It has been the subject of a very thorough study and I can say that the results of this study show that, according to articles such as “diversion”, “terrorism” throughout the years in Ukraine, thank God, the teenagers of this age have committed no crime. So we can talk about the fact that there is no such problem in Ukraine today. As far as banditism is concerned, their numbers are also small, and in this case, when research was carried out, medical approaches were also taken into account by physicians, psychologists, who were convinced that at such an age, they were not adequate and interrelated. And based on the number of such crimes and their consequences, we have come to the conclusion that we can go to this part of the punishment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u81	Allow me to finish my opinion, and you better answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u82	To prevent this from prescribing mandatory sanctions of a criminal nature, it is possible to recover the damage done in another way and to allow such a teenager to realize the consequences of his actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u83	Matthew, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u84	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear Alexander Volodymyrovich, what applies first of all to Bill 3031. I have not at any rate heard your opinion as to how you feel about his position, as regards the establishment of a full reparation for the position of securing the full compensation of the damage suffered or the removal of the damage caused as a prerequisite for the release from criminal liability. How can we account for this by implementing such a bill? And what's going on with the government bill. I mean in part, especially criminal responsibility for theft. Or the introduction of such a situation will lead to a sharp reduction in such horrendous crimes of a mass nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u85	I'm going to start on the second part, as to how this affects the level of crime or the specific categories of crime. I'm sure we're not going to get an increase in statistics on specific types of crime in this case. But also confident of another, what such mitigation will work to improve the general climate in society and the possibility of resocializing those serving punishment today. In this case, we look at this problem from every angle, and we should not think that the more severe the punishment, the less such crimes will be. This, according to numerous studies, is unrelated. As far as the second project is concerned. I said about it, from my point of view, it's not really right and it's not entirely acceptable when a project is being implemented, where the results of other people's work are being used and done in such a way that some of the changes that we're going to say don't improve what the author took into account.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u86	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The word is given to Gretzak by the committee, a national deputy. Please, Vasil Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u87	Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, distinguished national MPs, Reverend Alexander Volodymyrovich! The bill is designed to amend the Criminal Code of Ukraine, which would provide for the humanisation of criminal legislation, one of Ukraine’s important obligations to the Council of Europe. In particular, in the drafting of Bill 3031 as well as Project 3031-1, the proposals of leading scientists were taken into account, both by the number of criminal law theorists and by those directly involved in the application of criminal legislation in practice. Bill 3031 provides for amendments to Criminal Code 102, before Bill 3031-1 - 85. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine proposes to unify these bills and to adopt them first-reading based on the comments and proposals made. We had a rather hot discussion on this issue on the committee, and the committee supported bill 3031. But I think that all the remarks that are in both the one and the other bills of the Supreme Council should be taken into account and decided when voting in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u88	Please ask Vasil Mikolaiovich. Write down who wants it. Stepanovich Bulba has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u89	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Stephen Bulba, a faction of socialists. It seems to me that the drafters of the bill want to fight crime, crime, crime, without noticing crime, but seriously enough. Well, let’s say that regarding not leaving behind the responsibility of those young, underage ones, means that youths who commit crimes are offered to us, at the same time, let us keep in mind that they are young, said not to notice. You think it seems a dangerous phenomenon to me and it can have negative, first, and influence, and secondly, it won't be accepted by society.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u90	Thank you for asking. Stepan Stepanovich, well, this is a question, of course, for the drafters of the bill, both one and the other. One of the developers, I think, should have been in the room and given an answer, but for reasons that are not clear, many of the members of “Our Ukraine” are paid, and they are not attending the meetings of the Supreme Council. Your question is correct. I think this should be included in the second reading. There should be no competition, but there should be amendments to the law that should serve people and fight criminal crimes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u91	Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u92	Well, thank you. Fast, socialist faction. Vasil Mikolaiovich, I'm so looking at the committee, well, it's probably an optimistic view of the need to adopt such a bill. Because, well, the whole world is governed by it today, as they say in Ukrainian, they're not in a hurry to get someone to do something. There's a system and fines, there's a public prosecution system and there's an alternative, and so on. There is such an interesting reception that you can immediately make up for the damage and thus do not go directly to prison. Please tell me, as you think, it's an effective norm, or maybe it will then act openly, for both the public and the public, to see that these damages have been paid and these people already knew, these people knew who this man who did this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u93	You know, thanks for asking. The question is also correct. In individual cases and in separate articles, this could be applied. But it is always effective. Because the person who made the compensation, the financial compensation, and he may feel that there is no crime behind him, and that is probably wrong. This is a question of debate and, I think, it should also be taken into account in the work being done, and especially carefully addressed in the second reading of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u94	Thank you, sit down, please. Who would like to comment on this? Quick, Sadowy. Please. You can take your word from the place. You can take your word for it. You can give it to the Garden. I continue to meet on the basis of the Rules for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u95	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. A fast, socialist faction. I want to say that we are today discussing this issue and accepting it positively, yet we are going in a progressive way, the way that all civilized humanity is going. I mean, for today, if we look at the legislation of many countries, it's really not that fast, it's just to play the human being to get her to repent and somehow make up for the crime that she's created. Here, for example, is today's, well, literally a fresh example. I got a call from Dniprodijnsk, and there was a court-martial win. She was told: Come on, we're making up for what the household court has assigned. She was invited and then taken into the police force and literally yesterday, so she was arrested and she's there for the day under closed locks. I mean, if we didn't do it today, if we had the right legislation today, we probably wouldn't be doing it with a man who isn't actually carrying a criminal offence today, but still has to do it today. More loyally, she was created so that she fell for the game today and was temporarily there as yet unknown how she would be treated there and what she would do with it. Because I think all of these measures that Alexander Volodymyrovich listed today are fines on schedule and more punishment, and especially, I think we should be concerned that we should apply very strict measures to minors. I'm here to say to my colleague, Stepan Stepanovich, that if a minor gets there, it's very difficult for him to go out as a full-fledged person, and everything needs to be done, to prevent every possibility that this person will stay here and be brought up and that society will be involved. And I think that these losses that are being paid, they may be effective, too, but I think that they should be public in order for all people to see that there is such a thief today who has done, but has the opportunity to pay, everyone sees him. And it will also affect him negatively, more loyally, positively as punishment so that he can make amends. I think the faction is proposing to take the basis for the bill that was proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. We can accept it in the first reading. Maybe there's some rational proposals in the bill that Stratovic proposed, we'll work it out during the second reading, and we'll accept it as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u96	It's Mikola Illich, your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u97	Mikola Sadowa, a faction of socialists. As far as the problem of humanization is concerned, it has always had a positive tendency like this, and it's very good when it comes to humanism in every society. But if you even look at our nation and look at the legal nihilism that shines from our President, you know, sometimes you want to cry from when this legal nihilism is being planted, which contributes to these crimes, even banditry, including juveniles. I am extremely concerned about this question because I am an educated person. And recently he was in a college, a joint college of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Education and Science. And that's exactly where the data on crimes such as banditry, including juveniles, was given. Still, statistics show that it does not fall but increases. The bill that we're talking about today needs to be adopted, but it has to be adopted, and if it's not attracted to a minor for committing banditry to criminal responsibility, then such cases should not go beyond legislation, other measures of influence. Measures of influence must be, and if criminal responsibility is to be taken, in this case there must be another responsibility, including responsibility for both parents and other institutions responsible for the upbringing of our children’s leisure activities? And, of course, if he goes to play underage, he'll almost never get a better person out of there, and that's understandable. So I suggest that we unite these two bills, adopt them in the first reading, and work hard on these bills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u98	We're done discussing this project. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have noticed that I have been approached by the committee's head of profile – Vladimir Mikolajovic Strtovic and asked for his support, too, because he is in line with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and he sincerely wants to be accepted, and he understands very well that Parliament is working and will consider, but I guess he's not allowed to just come to the meeting. That's why it's already a question from another point of view, but nevertheless, we take into account the thinking of the head of the profiling committee, because although some people think that Parliament doesn't work, but the committee head is, and he also has an opinion on it, saying the committee's position. You've obviously noticed that this humanization project is about a larger set of options for courts to choose the extent of punishment when committing one or the other crimes. Because it sounded something like this in some people's questions that society is now reading the Criminal Code and it will be better to understand it and see that the direction of humanization is chosen. The criminal code is known by lawyers, and people do not read it and that is, thank God that they do not read it. They know the Criminal Code for the application of codex, so if we give a larger set, and especially, notice, this is a good approach, a larger set of penalties, but it's basically preserved, and that's the measure that was provided for in the previous code, which is that you can treat a person more humanely when you need it, and you can't. There is no doubt about it except that article 121 refers to torture. This is where I would approach this article very carefully, and if torture and other law enforcement officers, and with the consequences, there can be no weakening. People need to know, because it's a lawyer for education, usually, or a lawyer for his kind of activity, he needs to know that torture can't be done, there are boundaries defined by our legislation, and if it's written within 15 years, he needs to know what to punish. I'm sorry you can't torture me. Let those who prepare the project prepare for final consideration be sure that we are not mistaken. And another positive aspect of the case is when we decriminalize individual articles and translate penalties into fines, increases in fines rather than a person sitting. I think that's exactly the way it is with certain people. in certain offences to be applied. This will have more effect on both the one who is being punished and the State as a whole. I will no longer speak for the proper system, where it is now crowded with those who steal more than one, but there are no those who steal more than one. I'm not exactly lexical, but that's what I'm talking about. So it would be a good idea if we supported this project in the first reading and went to the Council of Europe and the Ministry of Justice and the Committee of Profiles and our deputies. Can I put it to a vote? Vasil Mikolaiovich Gritzak disagrees and asks for a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u99	Basil Gretzak, faction of the Party of the Regions. Dear Alexander Alexander, thank you for your word. In a situation where one of the drafters didn't come to the hall, he doesn't go to the hall, and he doesn't support it, I think it's easy enough to support -- this is what I'm talking about, I'm speaking on the stand from the committee, and now I'm speaking on my own -- to support today's proposals or Bill 3031-1 of the Cabinet of Ministers, but on the second reading, to take all those, well, the best thing that was done in this bill, Stretovich, is to take them into account in the second reading. And that's how we get out of this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-22-m0.u100	I think it's a reasonable offer. And we need to bend over to her. So we support the government project in the first reading and we give the commission to the committee: when preparing for the second reading, take into account all the positive points from the Committee's project, the Stretovic project. Is there no objection? Then I put the project, registration number 31-1, on the vote for the first reading. [[12:12:17]] For the 250. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, there is still an offer like this. We still have a few minutes. We have planned a bill amending the Ukrainian Television and Radio Act. His author is national deputy Gerasimük. The question is included in the order of the day, and it suggests removing it from consideration, withdrawing it. But we only have the possibility of voting in the session room, and there is no alternative. This is a requirement of article 99, paragraph 2, of the Rules. That is why I ask you to consider this proposal and to withdraw this bill on the basis of Parliament's decision. I'm betting on the vote on this project, 2153 registration number. Please. [[12:13:17]] For the 250. Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, after a break, I propose that we focus on the bill of work on committees and factions. At this I declare the morning session closed. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. Good for you.
