ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs, members of the media, are invited! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Council" system, we register. [[10:01:39]] There are 274 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Let us, fellow believers, welcome to today’s noun. Paul Ivanovich was 45 years old. And Vadim Vasilovich Kolisnichenko was born today. We warmly welcome them. [[Applause]] In accordance with Rule 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes Wednesday for the national MPs to make proposals, to announce statements, to report. Please record those who wish to take part in this action. Yes, please, 30 minutes. Party of regions, Saltus. Acid? Let me see who's handing you over. Saltus and who else? What are you writing down? We don't have a 14th. Does the fish give it to you? Saltus, and who else is? Does the fish give it to you? He'll be performing. Yes, so, please, three minutes. There's Slobodanuk, Rudnik, Korsakov -- who's transmitting? Dear colleagues, don't trade! Is there a Saltus? Who's he telling? Mine? Please. Acid, please. Go to the rostrum. As it was, it wasn't. Who do you think you I give the word to Soltus! To whom does Saltus convey? Kiselev, go to the rostrum then! Six minutes to him. And Rudnik's handing it over.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u2	Thank you. Dear fellow countrymen, dear colleagues! A group of Ukrainian national deputies -- Baraniwski, Zabarski, Kiselov, Kravchenko and Marmazov -- address this letter to the Attorney General of Ukraine and ask the Supreme Council apparatus to form this letter as a parliamentary address. Honourable Alexandre Ivanovich, members of the interim commission of inquiry of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the verification of the situation of natural gas by Ukrainian consumers, on the calculation of natural gas and possible violations of existing legislation on the energy market, was informed that on 31 January 2004 a criminal case had been dropped in connection with the indictment of Sivolski Miko Ivanovich, who had been the investigator of the particularly important cases of the Procurator-General of the Ukraine of Gorbatuk. The case has been suspended in connection with his failure to make him guilty of a crime. One of the reasons for the criminal offence was the acts carried out by the Ukrainian Gas Resources Consortium and by the Association of Shareholders, Industrial Finance Corporation, ‘The Only Energy Systems of Ukraine’. On specific issues, in 1997 the KRU’s acts on Kiev and the Central Authority of the KRU of Ukraine were drafted. During the verification, the KRA established that the consortium led by Sivullski was awarded three billion 161 million cubic metres of gas in the first half of 1997 by the State Enterprise Ukrgazprom, 3 billion 161 million cubic metres of 469 million, 704 thousand, 264 bracelets. The consortium has entered into agreements on the transfer of creditors' claims with the EESI Industrial and Financial Corporation, which have transferred the right to receive money from consumers for gas payments belonging to the ‘Ukrgazprom’. Such an agreement under the law may be concluded only with the participation of the natural gas owner “Ukrgazprom”. After receiving the “invoices” of “Ukrgazprom”, the consortium instructed consumers to send payments for the gas supplied for the benefit of EESU. [[in quotes]] According to the KRU Act, Ukrgazprom received 100 million dollars from the consortium on mutual account, 8 million bills and, in fact, the State Enterprise Ukrgazprom received 109 million 481 thousand dollars for the gas supplied for the amount of 469 million. The cost of transferred but unpaid gas is 360 million 222,000 446 dollars. At the same time, as head of the consortium, Sivuliski headed the EUES Kiev branch, which was also a member of the consortium, with a share of more than 80 percent. The circumstances clearly indicate this. That Sivulian’s abuse of office was in favor of EESU. The criminal case of the theft was violated only with regard to Sivullski, in relation to the officials and associates of Sivuliski, in receipt of income from the financial transactions in question, and no investigation of the findings was made. The criminal case was halted in connection with the failure of Sivulski’s guilt, since the investigation did not establish that the money stolen from the state enterprise was owned by Sivulski. In addition, he signed contracts and other documents, contributing to the theft, not on a personal criminal basis, but solely to the decisions of the consortium’s congregations. This conclusion of the investigation shows that it was a group of individuals, not one Sivulian, who were involved in the theft of state - owned funds. The evidence available in Sivule’s investigation justifies that he was the responsible director of the consortium, he did not know that the employees of his subordinate enterprise were giving him a signature of documents that did not meet the requirements of the law. After stopping the criminal case against Sivulski, the investigation did not establish the perpetrators of the crime. According to article 12 and article 49 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code, the length of time elapsed for liability under articles 191 and 361 failed. On the basis of the State's best interests, we ask that we consider the materials of the criminal case, remove the approval of the investigator from the particularly important cases – the coat of arms, and reopen the investigation of the criminal case in order to establish those responsible for the commission of the crime and to compensate for the damage done to the State. Finally, the unmotivated closure of this criminal case did not result in hundreds of millions of dollars being returned to the public treasury. The absence of a result from the investigation of the conditions to be answered to society, as was the case in 2004 with President Yushchenk's candidate before the vote. The failure to bring national MPs to justice simply because they are members of the opposition who have infiltrated the power grid and have literally thrown out of the voting system and shut down the power supply of the higher legislature of the state, says that in the framework of parliamentary control, we are obliged to ask, including from the Henprocuratorium, why they do not respond to the violation of the law. To ask, even though those I have just named will begin to scream that this is political persecution. In response, we say that before the law all citizens of Ukraine and the deputy must be equal. Why should Peternco or Orotenko be held accountable for the strictness of the law, and could the national deputies of Sivolski or Kostenko escape responsibility for what was done? Only then will there be order in the country when, regardless of position and social status, all citizens will be equal before His Majesty's law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u3	Please, Pomorenko, the Communist faction. To be prepared, Filindash is handing over Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u4	Dear colleagues, for the 20th time in recent years, have been attacked by the premises of the Montenegrin District Committee, the Mesics, and two Paradises, and a number of public organizations. In addition to the departure of operational groups to the scene, no specific action by law enforcement agencies is carried out that gives nationalist forces the right to act more and more insolently. I'm asking the Ministry of Internal Affairs, let that be a question. And now I want to turn to the question that was, is, to be relevant for the coming decades, it's a question of the earth. In recent times, hundreds of appeals have been made to the faction of the Company of Ukraine about outright violations of the Constitution, of effective legislation, and of the property and land rights of our citizens. I will stop at just a few facts that reveal the essence of the land situation in the Kyiv region. By the end of 2006, the owners of the “Borispolski” KSP and nearly a thousand Borispol residents had learned that they did not own their own pies. There was an affair in July 2001, called the “buy-sale deal” between the representative of the KSP, the head of the liquidation commission and the private firm Ukriinfo. For one and a half million dollars, this structure acquired a complete farm complex, and in 2004 the Kyiv District Court decided to transfer some 4,000 acres [4,000 ha] of land to its property, including 256 hectares, which were secured by the Supreme Council’s decisions outside the city of Borispol and nearly 2,000 residents were given land for disposal. Experts estimate that this land costs almost $800 million. A similar situation took place in the Andriyevskské KSP of the Makarov region. The local government and judicial authorities have been actively involved in the country’s land war, but they are not defending the rights of peasants, but they are advocating the legalization of lawlessness. Nearly 4,000 hectares [4,000 ha] of land of CITs have been allocated only 2,000 acres [2,000 ha], and thousands of hectares have been converted to nimble plots. And the district administration is actively promoting this. For days the issue of Borispol was discussed at a session of the Borispol City Council, also discussed at the Committee on Organized Crime. I'm going to the D.A.'s office at any time to intervene in this matter. Unfortunately, attempts by pensioners to protect their rights until they found support in this body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u5	Please, Melniczuk, and Boki's still handing him over. Please, six minutes. Get ready for Rybuku.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u6	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, radio audiences, television audiences! I have been instructed by the faction of the Socialist Party to express our position with regard to the initiators of the referendum. Let us imagine that in Ukraine there is a referendum on the choice of a model of government: to be Ukraine's parliamentary or presidential republic, as proposed by the opposition. But why ask what's so obvious? The state form of government was determined by Parliament on December 8, 2004, when 402 votes in favour of constitutional reform. Among them were 78 deputies from Our Ukraine, including Victor Yushchenko. which is today being forced into political treachery. Interestingly, how would they feel about denying what they had recently voted for? In fact, BUT is openly trying to use the President, his political power to achieve his narrow political and personal goals. They expect the President to sign the decree on plebiscite, but Timoshenko deliberately does not talk to the end that it is another political show. First, the results of the referendum should be implemented by the Supreme Council. Secondly, there is no tradition in Ukraine to hold a referendum unlike that of Switzerland. Undesigned legal, political instruments to hold a referendum on these issues, as evidenced by the practice of recent years. Thirdly, holding a referendum will entail additional costs and result in zero results. The satisfaction of the BUT leader will cost the state at least 300 - 400 million dollars from the pockets of Ukrainian citizens. The idea itself is a genre crisis, for the declared desire to carry out plebiscite is nothing more than another advertising campaign, which the President is now involved in. However, the leaders of BUT need to draw attention to themselves and their political power in any way. It's another piazza, because the tariff campaign has failed, and the capture of electrical shields has proved futile. The Cabinet of Ministers and the Coalition have made a proposal and are already implementing from April 1st, every year a social program that deals with wage increases, pensions, higher living minimum levels, lower tariffs. The political games of Tymoshenko are well - known and more and more former BUT supporters begin to become disillusioned with her claims and all these political games. The BUT faction voted in favour of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, which finally consolidates the parliamentary and presidential model. Now, not wanting to mention it, she tries to change the situation by the hands of the people and justify her betrayal. There's an open distraction from its conjunctural position, which changes every month, if not every week and every day. Another way to do another ultimatum, which is being promoted by BUT with the support of the “Our Ukraine” faction, was by 17 points. It's actually a game of consensus democracy, because the opposition already confirms in advance that the coalition will not perform at least most of these points. Look at these points, they look like a military ultimatum, and this is not a form of dialogue at all. Thus, the plebiscite project does not need Timoshenko to learn the opinion of the people, according to the polls, in his majority also supports the continuation of political reform on the ground. The idea of plebiscite is necessary in order to stay in great politics and preserve its faction, which is already at the point of division, so it's getting its deputies out of the room, worrying that they're about to move on to the coalition. Today, some of the botovites are openly tired of the adventurous ideas of Timoshenko and yearn for normal constructive work, not to protect the toilets or capture the electrical shield. How does “our Ukraine” feel in this case? It is unusual to think of it as a BUT dance. That is why there is reason to say, as Alexander Frost said: “In the morning or later, there will be 300 votes in the majority.” And there is no doubt about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u7	Please. True, I've understood your speech as a call to those whom you called to come to the hall and give you the answer to participate in the work. Please, the Freedman and Ribuk give him six minutes. We're having some strikes today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u8	Dear national MPs, dear fellow countrymen. In recent times, in government, in Parliament and in the country as a whole, there have been a number of significant, even promising, events. The faction of the Party of the Regions receives numerous calls, letters, telegrams, which indicate that the abandoned opposition fog does not darken the people's eyes; which indicates that the human ears have not silenced the cynically lying cry of another political and economic crisis; which our people have already said, which has already become a funny old song about the new elections and the dissolution of parliament. And the 17 ultimatums of opposition to power are prophesying the same fate as the sad "Ten Steps to Meet People" orange. But what kind of events is that? The anti-crisis programme of the government and coalition, which has been developed since the elections, is twice as organized today, and this has enabled the Supreme Council to agree with the Cabinet of Ministers' proposals on substantial, three times a year, raising the minimum wage, pensions and wages. The 138 laws adopted by the Supreme Council recently contributed to this, and they have a significant social orientation. Consolidation, the mutual responsibility of the coalition and the government have allowed effective ways to solve the accumulated problems in the housing and social sphere. The Supreme Council worked on and adopted more than twenty economic and social laws that were blocked ten years ago. And if, I said, the opposition didn't run so often out of the session room, sorry, like the stomach disease, we would have voted in favour of the law on the return of the citizens' savings, which was committed by the president last week. And a particularly important event took place yesterday, it cannot be counted as a rank when the Supreme Council, a more loyal coalition majority in this case, adopted the Land Cadastre Act. This law, I remind you, I haven't been able to adopt the Supreme Council for 15 years. So the question is, what crisis do you worry about to the people, our respectable opponents? Let's be more happy with the success and keep working, not beating ourselves in the chest, that it's someone's credit, yours or ours, or ours. First of all, as far as the merits are concerned, why are you asking us, the opposition, our nobles, to pull into the sand of the children's playground, to stick up the crumbs and argue over whose dowry is the best. Let's do it when people get their first raise in the Passover, and the real belt burns, that is, if. As far as economic growth is concerned, the rate of growth is not enough for all of us to take credit for all the Ukrainian labor. And secondly, with regard to the laws, the law-making process, here everyone worked, who did the coalition majority activity, and who did the passiveness. And here the faction of the Party of Regions is grateful to the coalition as a whole, to the MPs and to the government. Today we have for the first time, but exactly, I'll tell you, no sarcasm and even irony: thank you for the opposition for what she's done for today. This is the first time we've spoken frankly. What did the position do? You can't even imagine how you've harnessed the real coalition majority by your own detrusiveness and behavior. And in our daily work, we're already forgetting who the political power, the faction belongs to, because we have one goal: the welfare and happiness of the Ukrainian people. But be a constructive opposition, we're asking you today and we're begging you. Then we'll take it together, we'll take it out of the drawer of the Opposition Act, we'll set it up in the second final edition, and then we'll say live the opposition. But so far you're destructive. What is destructive? You're sick. And as we have always done in the Ukrainian people, we say to the sick: “Take it out, be healthy, for we have compassion for you. ” True, in recent times the disease has been exacerbated by the formation of a single torso, but there are two heads left. True, I think there is one more. Even with this joke, we call all the deputies to fruitful work, so we all have prerequisites, starting with the balanced position of the President's specific proposals, multiplied by his endurance and patience. Thank him. Ladies and gentlemen, today the government will sum up the sixth year. This is the basis for the final completion of the programme of action, the joint action of the entire state by 2011. Of course, before the strategy comes under trial in the people, we leave, the entire faction of the Party of Regions, to people with the purpose and purpose of the program to implement it. And we're confident that our nation will finally have a real road map of its development in the medium term. Let's all work together on this. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u9	Borszewski conveys the word to Gerasim. Please, Ivan Alexandrovich. Get Korsakov ready, Mutz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u10	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Gerasimov, the Communist faction. To the Council of Veterans Organization and to me, as a member of the Supreme Council, numerous letters of request and requests from veterans continue to initiate consideration in the Supreme Council of the issue of speeding up the payment of frozen savings to older citizens of the country. I must tell you that reading these letters is very difficult. How much sorrow and fair reprimand is expressed by veterans to the authorities! Veterans indignantly claim that not millions, but billions of people's funds are heading in an unknown direction. This is evidenced by the cost: in what direction did the 24 billion received for sold Krivorostal go. I know that such letters and petitions go to all the highest authorities of the State and to many of you, comrades of the people's deputies. Legally speaking, the need to start paying off this shameful public debt is not exactly impeccable to this category of our fellow countrymen, but, from a healthy point of view, from the point of view of humanity, you will agree, it deserves all the approval and a positive solution. It is not so difficult to imagine the condition of an older person who, for the rest of his life, has often given up much of his life, delaying the “black days” of hard work and, unfortunately, when these days have come, he cannot even use them to pay for the necessary medical operation, which is very expensive. This is particularly unacceptable in relation to the veterans of the Great Homeland War, the widows of the victims and the victims of the injuries of the war. Therefore, I, the distinguished people's deputies, turn to you once again, distinguished colleagues, and strongly ask the Government of Ukraine to turn to this clearly difficult issue and find the means to increase the payment of savings to older citizens of the country. Indeed, many of them have lost their lives by taking with them not only their dissatisfaction but also their great insult to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u11	Thank you. Yes, please, Korsakov. And Kovalevska is handing over to Mutza. Six minutes. Get ready for Gladkevitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u12	Orestes Mutz, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ternopolishte. Dear Ukrainians! As a representative of Ternopolska, I received more than 500 phone calls a month from the district’s pensioners. People are worried about the situation in the region. In 2006 alone, according to the Henprocurator’s Office, Ternopolska is considered the most corrupt and shady. The area is ruled by the Tymoshenkos, the terasuks, the Kostniks, and the Bachelors. These shoes are responsible for the area. Because in the 2006 elections, Ternopolska believed them and gave almost 100 percent of its votes. In exchange, I received lies, populism, cynicism. The budget for the area is 827 million dollars, but I can tell you that up to 10 billion dollars are turning in shadow. Borrow it yourself: In 2006 only Verstern Junior sent over more than a billion dollars of investment made later on and by corn. And up to two billion dollars, these wages, according to unofficial information, were handed over in private. And so the capacity of people is one of the highest in Ukraine, and the income part of the budget is the last place. Because the economy of the country is 80 percent overshadowed. And most of all, we are outraged by the oligarch of the Georgian spill, the son of a member of the Zwania Company Tsuk. In my opinion, after probably taking over the Communist cash register, he settled in Ukraine and became rich in Ukrainians, because he took possession of factories, businesses, banks working under shadow schemes, with the help of “loving friends”. Now he's traveling around the regions, funding his first secretary's team and teaching us, the Western Galicians, to fight dictatorship and to love a little girl in Ukraine. Do you imagine a Ukrainian who would tell the Georgians how to love Georgia? He wants to turn Ukraine into the same colony of America as Georgia and the president of the same dictator as Saakashvili. According to criminal shadow schemes, DPA has sold strategic factories that worked for agriculture, the defense industry of the state. The district council, led by the bottian and opposed to everyone, sent out the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, the President of the Address, who complained about the critical situation in the agro-industry complex, asking for financial assistance because there's probably nothing left to steal, forgetting that they're the ones who brought the land into this state because they're the owners of the turrets. The economic potential of the land belongs to the opposition. These are nine sugar factories, owned by seven of these plants are Hubski and “baskets”. They earn up to $30 million under the shadow schemes of the season, indignant the villagers — my countrymen. There are nine alcohol factories in the area, and their directors are oppositionists. More than 20 million bottles of vodka, forgery, surrogate were implemented in each region and in many villages. There are about 30 different careers in the area, and 90 percent of them work without licenses, or so - called opposition, rather than against the state and not against the community. Dear colleagues, let's think about those numbers. And that's why I'm addressing you, Mr. Martinyuk, to the President, Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, to help you, Mr. Martinyuk, to stabilize the situation in the Ternopil region, because the area is going to break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u13	Yes, thank you. Please, Gnatkevich. I can't see him, show me Gnatkiewich. Is it? Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u14	Vladimir Yavorowski, Timoshenko's Yulia Block. First. I am very happy when representatives of the majority, almost 90 percent of the time they speak, dedicate themselves to Julia Timoshenko. I'm really happy that they're doing less stupid things than they could at this time while they're talking. I would like to remind the voters of Ukraine of one small detail: how I already hated Julia Timoshenko Kuchma, who wanted to put her in prison forever and never set her up. Because of this, all your powers are so ridiculous and unserious today, but take care of them. That's very good, I say again, less nonsense of others you'll do. Secondly, I would like the representatives of the “Regions” to stop voting about savings. I'm just going to remind people that on December 14, when I passed the law that the Communists introduced, you didn't give any government, no vote, I understand why. You felt sorry for the government because you had to allocate 10 billion dollars with a hook. So that's why you didn't do it at the time of the budget. You didn't do it, you only put $600 million into paying off this debt. Period. And don't say anything else. I believe that the President made a fatal mistake that he vetoed this bill. You shouldn't have done that. And this government could have fallen in two or three months, because finding that kind of money would just not have been possible if a ten to the minimum wage hadn't been found. And the last thing I'd say. Ukrainian politics, unfortunately, may even be a reference to unconsciousness, and that is true. Perhaps the most moral was the first Parliament when there was a group of 239 and they were defending their political interests. And they voted for Ukrainian independence. Because of this, Ukrainian politics is immoral. We're used to it. We've long forgotten how it's thrown out, what kind of discards go into our society, when people are completely disappointed in everything. And I think yesterday we got another confirmation of betrayal and apostasy. I mean Anatoly Kirilovich. We were standing on the stage with you, Anatoly Kirilovich. And you went to the election under the loud slogan “Don’t betray the field!” What happened to you? The Prime Minister told you that we would find a position for him. Last night, all the media announced that you're the First Vice Prime Minister, today you're the Minister. I don't know what's gonna happen by nightfall. As a result, I believe that in 2007 the measure of betrayal should be one of China.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u15	Yes, respected colleagues mentioned the name Sivuliski. One minute, a line. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u16	Dear colleagues, I am ashamed that this rostrum is used, not to address important issues of the country and people, but to combat opposition. What you've heard from this rostrum from the first speaker is a complete nonsense. The point is, in this case, it has nothing to do with the work of the commission. I'm going to read you paragraph two of the February 20th decree. The interim investigator of the commission shall carry out a background check on the debt cancellation of the ZAT “EESU” and the economic activity of the Ukrainian Gas Transport Consortium. My personality has nothing to do with this structure. And the commission had no right to go beyond the competence established by the Supreme Council. I am ashamed that instead of resolving matters that are very important to the country today, they are pursuing opposition representatives. In particular, we haven't figured out why Voronin signed the deal on January 4, and broke the deal that guaranteed us 50 dollars of gas by January 1, 2010. They don't care why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u17	Yeah, thanks, buddy. On Friday, we will listen to the report of the previous commission and will be able to continue this discussion. Yes, dear fellows, we have spoken what we were going to say, we are now moving to the order of today's session. I want us to agree now that, before we consider other issues, we will consider human resources issues, namely the question of bringing both the President and the Prime Minister on the appointment of members of the government. Is there any objection? In accordance with the Rules, these issues are dealt with without being included in the agenda. Then please give the floor to Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u18	Dear national deputies, dear Adam Ivanovich! In accordance with part 8 of article 83, part 1 of article 85, part 4 of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine and parts 1 and 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, I submit a submission concerning the appointment of Mr. Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u19	Dear colleagues, we have two orders to take with you: Order 3357 on the release of Rybak from the post of Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine, Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing and Order 3358 on the appointment of Rybak as Vice-Prime Minister of Ukraine. You know that the Cabinet of Ministers, according to its constitutional powers, has decided to create two separate ministries based on the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing. So there's no such ministry as the Ministry of Construction, Architecture and Housing anymore, and that's why we need to get a legal act on Vladimir Vasilovich. Any questions on that? None. Is that clear? Then I am voting for decree 3357 on the release of Rybak Vladimir Vasilovich from office as Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine of the Minister of Construction, Architecture and Housing. Please vote. [[10:39:45]] For 252 Copy that. And now we need to make a decree under number 3358 on the appointment of the Fisherman to the post of Vice Prime Minister of Ukraine. Please vote. [[10:40:17]] For 246 Decision taken. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yesterday, the submission of the President of Ukraine pursuant to article 85, paragraph 12, and article 114, part four, of the Constitution of Ukraine, proposed the appointment of Yatsenuk Arsenij Petrovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. You know, literally a few words that Arsenius Petrovich is now the first deputy head of the President's Secretariat before he took up the post of Minister of Economics. He was the first deputy head of the Odessa District State Administration, was and served as both the first deputy, and the minister of the economy, and the first deputy head of the Council of Ministers of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, served as the first deputy for the head of the National Bank of Ukraine. All documents in accordance with article 200 submitted by the President to the draft decree and to his submission concerning Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenyuk. I propose to do so, we will now allow Arsenija Petrovich to speak for five minutes and for a while, let's see how much you sign up for the questions, to answer the questions. Please, Arsenius Petrovich. 5 minutes for the performance, and then let's see how much they want to ask, let's figure out how much. Wait, I don't care if you don't have your cards. You have to go to work at 10:00. Please, Arseny Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u20	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! First of all, I would like to thank the President of Ukraine for making my appointment as foreign minister. Let me begin my brief talk by not hearing any resonant statements from me because, to my conviction, Ukraine's foreign policy should be stable and predictable. No country, a partner of Ukraine should receive surprises from Ukraine and Ukraine -- a large 47 million-dollar European state, which should play a significant role in the current geopolitical structure of the world. We should be a subject, not an object of foreign policy. With regard to the priorities that could be expressed and which, in fact, should shape the foreign policy of the Ukrainian independent state. I would like to state the principle of the primacy of national interests in Ukraine’s foreign policy. Today’s globalized world is ruled by interests. And these are usually economic and financial interests. Therefore, Ukraine must first stand up for its own national interests. Ukraine should not ask. Ukraine should be invited. As far as our relations, our good neighbourly relations and our partner countries are concerned. There are a number of international commitments that Ukraine and Ukraine will be proud to carry out all the international obligations it has under the relevant international agreements. The foreign policy of the State must be realistic and pragmatic. Ukraine does not live in an isolated world, and so when any decision is taken at the level of the President of Ukraine, the government and parliament, foreign policy will be guided by purely pragmatic and realistic approaches, approaches that will reflect the balance between our neighbour countries and those countries with which Ukraine works internationally. First of all, I'd like to stop at one of the basics. One of the basic postulates proposed, including for your consideration. In fact, this postulate comes out of the geopolitical structures that exist today. At this stage, I think there is a need for a certain economy of Ukraine's foreign policy. Because once again, I would like to emphasize that economic interests govern the world. And there must be a role, both in foreign affairs and in other government departments responsible for economic policy. For our countries and for external cooperation. Ukraine's main, unchanged course is European integration. And 60 percent of the Ukrainian population and Ukrainian citizens who support this idea are a powerful example of this. Europe is not an end in itself for the Ukrainian state. The goal is European values, the goal is the structural economic reforms that need to be made on the thorny and long road to the European Union. We are now in the stage of negotiations on a strengthened agreement with the European Union and on the launch of a free trade zone with Europe. The European market is extremely important to us, that is, the market we sell and buy from. In fact, 30 percent of Ukraine’s trade is done with countries of the European Union. Thus, foreign and foreign economic priorities are objectively given to one of the world’s largest markets, Europe. Russia. Russia is an extremely important Ukrainian partner. It's too big a country to lead an unforeseeable foreign policy. In addition to the fact that the European Union is unlikely to have any real prospects for the immediate diversification of energy flows in Ukraine today, Russia is a significant Ukrainian market for its production. Close ties and contacts with the Russian Federation will be maintained. The main idea that today lies in Ukrainian-Russian cooperation is the work of the Jushchenko-Putin Commission. And in this regard, much has been done today and, in fact, the action plan is ready. That's what the United States of America is. We have one of the highest levels of dialogue with the United States in recent years. And the most valuable thing is that from the U.S., we need to maintain a proper level of dialogue. Ukrainian foreign policy will not stand apart from such global world processes, which is global warming, what it is.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u21	Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u22	What global warming is, what terrorism is, what non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is. So Ukraine will clearly declare democratic values and its position in all these challenges of today's society and today's world. With regard to membership in international organizations, Ukraine will play an extremely important role, both in those organizations where it is already a member – the Council of Europe, the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation, and we need to take immediate action to accelerate the accession to the Organisation for Cooperation and Development. As far as foreign policy is concerned, foreign policy should be given new impetus, new dynamics, and a creative atmosphere in his work. And Ukrainian citizens who have a suitable foreign passport, which states that the foreign minister asks all other relevant countries to promote Ukrainian citizenship in the movement outside Ukraine, should know that there are all means and methods in the country to ensure that Ukrainian citizens are not only free to enter all countries of the world but also free to move and protect the Ukrainian state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u23	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Will there be questions? Please sign up if there is. Yes, it was the desire of 32 national deputies to ask questions. 15 minutes. Please, Sergey Shevchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u24	Sergey Shevchuk, faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. Mr. President, I'd like to ask you the following questions. In the current government, several important ways, such as transportation and communication, ecology, internal affairs, emergency situations, are headed by people who are difficult to call professionals, who are managed and trained at the same time. Most analysts have the impression that you will complete this list. Please tell me, besides Davos, what diplomatic experience do you have? That's the first question. And the second question is, what is the draft law on the principles of foreign and domestic politics that are now registered in the Supreme Council, as the future foreign minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u25	Thank you so much for asking. And that's the question, I saw the press yesterday, and it's pretty wide out there -- in terms of diplomatic experience. I would like to point out the following: while serving as Minister of Economic Affairs, in fact, the Minister of Economic Affairs is the head of the Committee "Ukraine-European Union". That is why all the negotiations concerning the European Union on the economic bloc have been held by me personally as the minister of the economy. The other one. With regard to the introduction to the World Trade Organization. All international negotiations and, in fact, the signing of basic agreements with the United States of America, China and Australia and other ten countries that were not signed were then conducted by the Minister of Economics. Third. Today, it is almost extremely difficult to distinguish external political activity from external economic activity. So once again, I would like to point out that the diplomatic experience of the work has been gained by being both the minister of the economy of Ukraine and the acting head of the National Bank of Ukraine. As far as basic education is concerned, I would like to point out that basic education is legal and, in fact, it is legal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u26	Let me finish. After a minute of reply, Eugene Petrovich. Please finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u27	And in fact, basic education is absolutely appropriate, legal and diplomatic are practically identical, because international private law, international public law, the constitutional law of foreign countries and all basic sciences are exactly the same as lawyers and diplomats.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u28	Yes, and as far as the law is concerned, I think the candidate for office is not obliged to go to us and study all the bills. When he's a minister, he'll be studying what he's doing. Murderer, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u29	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u30	Jaroslav Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u31	Arsenija Petrovich, a few months ago, received a history of discharge from the position of professional diplomat, a professional ambassador to Austria, Yeltchenka. He was accused of violating consular instructions. Later, however, during a public discussion of this story, it was found in the direct air of Ukrainian television channels that Jelchenko acted accurately, thoroughly, and professionally. Do you not consider one of the first human resources decisions to be a foreign minister, and I hope that today Parliament will agree to this so that you can take the initiative to address the President to correct this unfortunate mistake? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u32	With regard to the staffing composition of the Ministry, the issue of personnel assignments will be consistent with the President of Ukraine, along with the head of government and the future foreign minister. With regard to a specific candidate, the materials of the service investigation will be raised, and if the relevant material of the service investigation does not violate the relevant instructions, the decision will be dealt with in accordance with the law by agreement with the President and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u33	Please, Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u34	Please pass the word to Boko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u35	Ivan Boki, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u36	Dear Arseny Petrovich, the faction of the Socialists will certainly support your candidacy. I understand that your greatest disadvantage today is your youth, but this flaw will soon pass. And I think today the position of foreign minister, like all democracies, is in the first three or five senior officials of the state. And you will be worthy to represent the young Ukraine in the leadership of the state. My question to you is this. You've made a very clear point on the economics of foreign policy. Which, do you think are, well, the most up-to-date today would be the direction of the economics of foreign policy itself? Well, I would also like to say that Mr. Tarasyuk spoke of you "very well" yesterday, it is the best recommendation to make. [[in quotes]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u37	Well, I'll let myself start with the last answer. I respect all former foreign ministers because there are no former ministers. This is both Widow, and Zlenka, and Mr. Grishken, and Tarasyuk, including. And what I'd like to say about economics is that foreign diplomatic institutions in their composition contain trade and economic missions, which are, in principle, double subordination today. So the TEM is subordinated to and funded by the Ministry of Economics, but the actual directive is given from the Ministry of Economics. Thus, the first and the key is shared by the Economics of Improving and Reforming the System of Trade and Economic Missions. These must be the leaders of Ukrainian foreign economic policy. That's the first one. The other one. Membership at the Asian Union is an extremely important element for Ukraine. So far, we are only taking part in one committee, but while still serving as minister, I have met with the new Head of the ACID. And there's a great forward-looking plan that we can gradually move into the ACID. The third is objectively international conferences, and this must be a sure card card from Ukraine. It's amazing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u38	Eugene Kirilchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u39	Thank you. Eugene Kirilchuk faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. I have this question for you: you said that Ukraine would not be a country of surprises. And how do you see and how will you act in your ministry when Ukraine raises surprises, such as Tuzla, the type of claims on Snake Island, take over the Crimea territory and so forth? What will be your position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u40	I have to redefine the basic principle that I personally confess is the primacy of national interests. So we love everyone, all our neighbors, all the partner countries we work with, but we love Ukraine more than anything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u41	That's a good diplomatic answer. Bondarchuk Ivan, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u42	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, I think you, as future minister, have apparently deliberately avoided clarifying your position on NATO. So what I think is to formulate your vision of the relationship between Ukraine and NATO, and how would you comment on this decision of the United States Congress, first the House of Representatives, and recently the Senate on Ukraine's invitation to join NATO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u43	Let me begin by saying that there can be no separate position of foreign minister on foreign policy issues. There is a position of the Ukrainian state. And this position should be, should be produced by the President of Ukraine, who is leading foreign policy in constructive cooperation with both the Ukrainian Parliament and the Ukrainian Government. As far as NATO is concerned, in 2003, a constitutional majority passed a law on the basis of national security, which envisions both cooperation and membership. Thus, a public official would like to point out that it is because of the relevant legislative prism that the matter is being considered at this stage. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, I think it would be appropriate to provide broad information to the Ukrainian public about the defence blocks, including NATO, and let Ukraine be defined.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u44	Hanna Herman, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u45	Dear Arsenija Petrovich, you have spoken here about pragmatism, about the realism of Ukraine's foreign policy, about the fact that Ukraine should not ask but be invited. And this one matches the Prime Minister's vision. That's why we're going to vote for you. I would just like to remind you that the course for the economics of Ukrainian foreign policy was announced in 1997 by Leonid Kuchma. It's just so you know. Now for the questions. Tell me, when you were offered this position, you did not have the slightest doubt that if Ukraine had such a brilliant body of experienced diplomats, perhaps someone would be better able to do this more professionally. It's just, you can't even answer that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u46	I am convinced that there are far more deserving people in Ukraine than I am. But if you vote, I'll be pulling this wagon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u47	Let's count another diplomatic answer. Please, Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u48	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Arseny Petrovich, I know you as the Minister of Economics, who was quite active in protecting Ukraine's markets, and with you it was easy to work in that direction. But today and then between the minister, let’s say, foreign affairs and the minister of profile have always arisen some friction conflicts. Because a professional minister usually tries to protect our markets, that is, to support our manufacturer, and that's not like those countries where, according to our legislation, we don't let bad goods get into our markets. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is willing to do so, as it were, in order not to tease one country or another, because his work is being evaluated accordingly. So the first question I have is, is it going to bother you today, or is it going to prevent you from pursuing economic policy to protect our markets by becoming a foreign minister? Second, would you not forbid going abroad to the Prime Minister, to other ministers, to MPs?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u49	Honourable Alexander Petrovich, both in the world and in fact in society, is respected by qualified and strong. So the position is strong in the case that any state stands first for its own interests. Of course, taking into account all international obligations. Thus, under such conditions, including negotiations on access to the markets of goods and services, the primary interests of Kiev, not of other capitals of the world, will be discussed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u50	Natalia Prokopovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear Mr. Yatsenuk, I would like to ask you this: how do you consider the possibility of informing citizens not only of the European community but of others about what is happening in Ukraine? What should be a very clear and purposeful activity on the outside, since there are so many questions today, and what is happening in Ukraine? There is distorted information that is provided to others. countries that see us and so forth. So I'd like to get to that question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u52	As a rule, the country’s external image depends primarily on the internal situation. As for the external image, it is an appropriate program, by the way, it is called, if I am not mistaken, the exact name “Ukraine’s external image”. This program is funded by the Ministry of Finance, and within this program, this should be the first part of conferences, i.e. the standard package, standard products that always show up in all the countries of the world. Conferences, symposia, international organizations, unity of positions, adequateness and response to the challenges the world is now interested in is the best commercial for Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u53	Julia Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u54	Julia Kovalevska, faction of the Party of the Regions. Please give the floor to Falco Volodymyr Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u55	Please, Vladimir Falco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u56	Dear Arseny Petrovich! Please tell Prime Minister of Ukraine Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic personally in the Supreme Council representing ministers and thus stresses the responsibility for their work. Unfortunately, the President had never been to the Supreme Council, presented his candidacy, and entrusted it to the clergy. Please tell me, will you do the will of these clerics?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u57	Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk introduced me today. And as for the actions of the President of Ukraine, the President of Ukraine will present in the established law the order of the future foreign minister.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u58	I take it my colleague Falco didn't call me a cleric? Okay, thanks. Sit down, Arseny Petrovich. Have a seat. The word has the head of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government of Tikhov Viktor Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u59	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meeting this morning considered the submission made by the President of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine regarding the appointment of Arsenius Petrovich Yacenuk as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. As well as additional material that contains information on this candidate and recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the outcome of the consideration of the relevant issue to support the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decision on the appointment of Yatsenuk Arsenij Petrovic as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u60	Thank you. Will there be questions? Thank you. Sit down, Victor Mikolaiovich. Are they willing to share in the discussion? Nobody insists? No, they insist, please sign up. Please sign up. There's an offer to give them an opportunity to speak, especially that they're factions. Please, 12 minutes, Ehanur's Yuri Ivanovich, prepare Samylik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u61	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the “Our Ukraine” faction on behalf of which I speak, supports the candidacy submitted by the President of Ukraine by Arsenius Petrovich Yatsenuk for the post of Minister of Foreign Affairs. I would like to draw your attention to the experience of Arsenius Petrovich's external economic activity, which he acquired as the Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Arsenius Petrovich, a personal and serious contribution, should be noted in the preparation of bilateral negotiations and all successful in the accession of Ukraine to the World Trade Organization. You know what a two-way process has been going on in Ukraine for a long time. As Economy Minister Arseni Petrovich took a direct part as a member of delegations in negotiating processes at a higher level with the leaders of many countries. The “Our Ukraine” faction believes that Arsenija Petrovich Jacenjuk, as foreign minister, is reporting as much as possible on the issue of the speedy conclusion of the visa facilitation agreement between Ukraine and the European Union, which is already initialled and will be implemented by millions of Ukrainian citizens. We hope that Ukraine will continue to have an equal, good-neighbourly pragmatic relationship with the Russian Federation and other neighbours, coming primarily from national interests. By the way, during negotiations with the President of the Russian Federation, Mr. Putin Arseny Petrovich took a direct part in this negotiation process. The “Our Ukraine” faction believes that with the new minister, our diplomatic department will continue its course of approval of Ukraine as a regional leader. Arsenius Petrovich would like to be calm and confident about tomorrow among the Ministry’s professional staff, since there have been many such events in recent months. I think today he has demonstrated beautifully that he is a natural diplomat. Well, now we wish he'd become a professional in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u62	Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich. Catherine Samuel, get ready for Baranowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u63	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine The Antichrist Coalition knows what it is doing: it is making its choice and will vote in favour of those who will defend Ukraine’s national interests. The Antichrist Coalition will give its vote for the only team on the one hand to work in the name of Ukraine’s interests and to raise its international image. So, of course, the decision of all of us -- all three factions -- to support the proposal for approval by the Foreign Minister Arsenija Petrovich, I told him today: you always went a different way, and today you went a different way and, you see, the anti-crisis coalition would totally support you. But of course, I would like to express as a citizen of Ukraine, as a politician, and as a representative of the Communist Party of Ukraine, I would like to express my wish to you. We believe that you will not have scandals in government or in the international arena. We have made quite a mockery of the entire world society. We believe that you will do everything you can to ensure that everyone respects the independent, sovereign state of Ukraine. And this is your first wish from the anti-crisis coalition and, of course, from our faction. Of course, we also want you to want to. The people decide everything,' said the big classic, and you're not going anywhere. We know that after two years some embassies do not appoint ambassadors. Of course, this does not represent the image of our nation with you. Of course, this is not in the interests of our nation. And we believe that you will certainly resolve these questions. For our nation must be represented by deserving people worthy of our great nation and our great state. Of course, we wanted to ask you to review the visa - related issues because we know how many consulates are losing out on such a voluntary decision. And I think you're going to make that decision. And I want, on behalf of the faction of the anti-crisis coalition, to wish you young people to serve the people of Ukraine, national interests. And believe you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u64	Please, Alexander Baranowski. The monk is passing it on, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u65	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. For every open - minded citizen, it is obvious that the absence of a foreign - political leader within two months does not add authority to either the country or the authorities. An epoch with the previous head of the Foreign Ministry, who, under the leadership of political power, declared opposition to the government and considered it possible to continue working in this government, I think, led the situation to some absurdity. You can't be a European when you talk about declarations, and you can't be a European when you talk about your own behavior. Arsenija Petrovich Yatsenuk's candidacy for the majority of the diplomatic corps, I say softly, somewhat unexpected, as this area - diplomatic - is sufficient, in a good sense, conservative, and the minister's office foresees a corresponding career experience. Arsenija Petrovich, on the other hand, was active in economic activities, and today the protection of Ukraine’s economic priorities is obviously one of the most important tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Arsenius Petrovich, I sincerely wish you success in this new field and do not take it as a reproach. Indeed, we hope that these successes will be different than when you were in charge of reforming the Ukrainian Security Service, for what has taken place with that authority today does not withstand any criticism. The President of Ukraine nominated Arsenius Yatsenyuk, demonstrating his willingness to seek compromise, to realize that only if the consolidation of the MP Corps were provided would the State have a sure prospect. Our faction discussed Arsenija Petrovich's candidacy, and we decided to support her, and with the opportunity, I want to look to my colleagues for coalition and opposition to follow this example. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u66	Thank you, Jaroslav. Please, Jaroslav Suchi is passing on the word to Daechu. Please, Boris Davidovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u67	Dutch, the "Regions" faction. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I know Arsenia Petrovich by the debt of my work. Youth is not scary. We knew in the history of our State of Woznesensky, Ustinov, Kassygina, who, at that age, became ministers of a large country and then became great public figures. Non-professionalism? You can't say. He's got two colleges, he's hardworking, he's able to work, he's smart. Arsenius Petrovich, but there is. I will vote for you today, but I would like you to become a real minister, you need to remove the negative features of character such as passion, pride and pride! Then you'll be a real minister. And I want you to become Minister not only of Northern Bukovina, but of Ukraine as a whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u68	No, he will also represent the interests of Crimea. Yes, the discussion is over, dear colleagues. Let's be clear. But I'm going to go to the head of the profile committee, the committee on international issues. Please see if I have considered the committee and what decision. One minute. It's weak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u69	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. The committee met this morning, and we failed yesterday, but today we discussed the matter in detail. There was no objection to Arsenius Petrovich's candidacy, he, although he was stressed here, a young man, but already known in Ukraine, I think, when he was the minister of the economy, he was also famous in the world, we well know that he has a good English language, this question is also very important, how the future minister will have the ability to negotiate not only from the rostrum through the translator or the official level, and in the coulaires, and I think it's really a great acquisition for today. And we recommended this candidature in order to support and vote positively in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u70	Thank you. I appeal to the representatives of the united opposition. We didn't do anything wrong? Can we vote? Okay. Thank you. I put to the vote decree number 3363 on the appointment of Yatsenuk Arseny Petrovich as Minister of Foreign Affairs of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:18:14]] For 426 national deputies. It's been decided. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues. The factions? Let's do the factions. Region Party – 186, Block Timoshenko – 118, “Our Ukraine” – 64, Socialists – 30, Communists – 21, “Afterfractional” – 7. Ladies and gentlemen, let's welcome Arsenius Petrovich for his appointment. It's really the youngest member of the government. He has the age of Jesus, and we will expect that everything will be all right. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the President for listening to the proposals of the Anti-Crist Coalition, and to present the candidacy that has won almost a hundred percent of the support of the deputy corps. And I'm talking to Arsenius Petrovich. Please change the bed. Now your place is on the right by the chairman. Yeah, let's keep going. Please, Victor Fedorovich. The question is being considered, draft Order No. 3360, on the release of Makuha from Ukraine's post as Minister of Economy. Victor Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u71	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with article 85, paragraph 12, of the Constitution, article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, paragraph 4, of the Constitution, article 202 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I am submitting the application for the release of Makuha Vladimir Alexiyyovich from the post of Minister of Economy of Ukraine in connection with the transition to another job.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u72	No questions? Do you understand? The committee, I know, I've been looking. There's a committee. The committee supports the Prime Minister's proposal. Shall we vote? Okay. I am voting on Order No. 3360: On the release of Makuha from her post as Minister of Economy of Ukraine in connection with the transition to another job. Please vote. [[11:20:57]] For 251 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, let's thank Vladimir Alexiyovich for his cooperation with Parliament, and wish him success in the position he will soon be appointed to. Yes, there is no holy place, we are looking at Bill 3361 on the appointment of Kinaha Anatoli Kirilovich as Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Please, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u73	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. According to part 8 of article 83, paragraph 12 of part 1 of article 85, part 4 of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine and parts 1 and 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, I present my commitment to the appointment of Kinach Anatolia Kirilovich as Minister of Economy of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u74	Thank you. Questions to Viktor Fedorovich? None. Yes, please, committee, Tikhov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u75	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meeting this morning, discussed the introduction by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the appointment of Kinach Anatoli Kirilovich as Minister of Economy of Ukraine and recommended to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the outcome of the consideration of the relevant issue to support the draft decision of the Supreme Council on the appointment of Kinach Anatoli Kirilovich as Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Registration number 3361. Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u76	Thank you. Will there be questions for the committee head? Thank you, sit down, Victor Mikolayovich. Yes, please, Anatoly Kirilovich. We all know Anatoly Kirilovich. Come on, Anatoly Kirilovich, do you have anything to say? Yes, please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u77	Dear Victor Fedorovich, revered Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. As I never mentioned today in 1990, the same room, when we, MPs, the first parliament of an independent Ukraine had discussions, which of the former Soviet republics had better starting conditions to build a competitive economy and the welfare of citizens. Now, based on my experience and experience, I'm sure that fits reality. I conclude that, unfortunately, for 16 years of independence of the state, a number of systemic problems have not been solved primarily because of the lack of consistency of power in Ukraine. Starting with the absence of a strategy for the development of a state that must rely primarily on national, economic and political interests, the shameful problem of poverty, the unfinished pension reform, we're losing labor resources, and people are looking for livelihoods abroad. So I'm absolutely sure, at this time especially these problems, these priorities should be a higher priority in terms of any political party's programme. And around them it is necessary to unite efforts to make Ukraine develop as a legal state, a modern state with a competitive economy, a high welfare of its own citizens. And I'm willing to direct my will, my experience and my work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u78	Thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich. Dear colleagues, Anatoly Kirilovich we all know. Will there be questions for him? Nobody insists? Okay, thank you, Anatoly Kirilovich, sit down. I put to the vote order number 3361 on the appointment of Kinakh Anatoly Kirilovich as Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:25:40]] For 255 Decision taken. The factions. Region Party – 186, Block Timoshenko – 5, “Our Ukraine” – 8, Socialists – 30, Communists 21, non-fractional – 5. Anatoly Kirilovich, we sincerely welcome you and also ask you to change your job. A draft decree on the appointment of Yatsuba as Minister of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 3359. Please, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! In accordance with part 8 of article 83, part 1 of article 85, part 4 of article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine and parts 1 and 2 of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers, I am submitting an application for the appointment of Yatsuba Vladimir Grigorovitch as Minister of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u80	Thank you. No questions? Then, my dear fellows, with your permission, I will remind the radio audience of the brief extremities of the applicant's biography. Now most of you know, and here in the hall are those other colleagues who worked with Vladimir Grigorovitch. Mr. Vladimir Grigorovich, Counselor of the Prime Minister, was now Vice-President of the National Academy of State, under the President, Head of the Dnipropetrov Regional Administration, Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers, Secretary of State of the Cabinet of Ministers, First Deputy Secretary of State, First Deputy Chief of Administration, People's Deputy First Call. Well, I'm glad it says here that it's also the first secret of the city's Dnipropetrovsk City Council at the time. I mean, he's got every reason. I particularly emphasize these chains, because this refers to the responsibilities that it will perform -- regional policy and construction -- that it was, in today's sense, the mayor of such a large industrial centre and the secretary of the party of Dnipropetrovsk. Please, Vladimir Grigorovich. C.C.P.R.R., too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u81	Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear Adam Ivanovich! I thank you for this presentation, and I would like to point out that I am not giving up any of my positions that I have had to embrace over the years. And I would also like to support Anatoly Kirilovich, as an example since we were MPs of the first call. It was from this rostrum that the Law “On Local Self - Government ” was passed in 1991. By the way, the Local Self-Government Act of Ukraine adopted one of the first of all former Soviet republics. And it took almost 16 years for the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic to decide on the creation of a ministry that should have been created a long time ago. So I would like to thank the government of Viktor Fedorovich from this great, high rostrum for what such a ministry has been created. This has long been taken care of by city mayors, regional leaders, who have long matured and matured. And I would also like to thank you for being able to try to create such a ministry. I realize that it's not a simple matter, it's a very difficult matter, because it affects the interests of many and political and economic problems. Thank you again, Victor Fedorovich, and I promise together, for your trust and the coalition, for your trust, and for those committees that have listened to me today as a candidate for this position and I promise to make every effort with you to make this ministry the center that will solve those urgent problems that are in the regions today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u82	Thank you, Vladimir Grigorovich. Will there be questions? After such good words, thank you for asking. Let me put to the vote the draft decision on the appointment, and more precisely the order to appoint Yatsuba as the minister of regional development and construction of Ukraine. Registration number 3359. Please vote. [[11:30:51]] For 253 It's been decided. Welcome, Vladimir Grigorovich, you. And I apologize for Victor Mikolaiovich Tikhovov's applause, but the committee's opinion is to support our decision, which we have already made. A draft Ordinance on the appointment of Popov as Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 3362. Please, Victor Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u83	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, in accordance with part eight, article 83, paragraph 12, part one, article 85, part four, article 114 of the Constitution of Ukraine and part one, part two of article 9 of the Ukrainian Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. I submit an application for the appointment of Popov Alexander Pavlovich as Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u84	Will there be questions for Viktor Fedorovich? None. Any questions? There's a question. No one else to record. Then please, Alexy Kucherenko, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u85	Thank you. Alexei Kucherenko, “Our Ukraine”. Head of the Housing Committee. Dear Alexander Pavlovich, first of all, I really want to say hello to you, you will certainly be the minister and I want to say that I have known you for a long time as a very decent person. Secondly, unfortunately, there wasn't what the reconciliation was about, which is that there would be a conversation on our committee earlier. I think we're just in a hurry, and today we need to be pragmatic about this. So first of all, I want to assure you that the committee is in any case set up for normal, effective and constructive cooperation with you, as with the minister and the law of the entire ministry. And secondly, I would like to advise you to do everything possible to ensure that the stereotypes that, unfortunately, exist in this ministry today regarding further reform, and especially in personnel matters, do not prevail over you. Because otherwise you're risking that just in a year, you're going to be responsible for a very big problem that exists in the LHC today. Thank you, and congratulations again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u86	Yeah, I get it. Tikhov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u87	Viktor Fedorovic, Adam Ivanovich, although I regret my previous appointment, but on behalf of all local governments, on behalf of 250,000 deputies at all levels, I would like to thank you for having fulfilled your pre-election commitments and for establishing the Ministry of Regional Policy and Construction of Ukraine. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meeting, held on 21 March this year, considered the introduction by the Prime Minister of Ukraine to the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the appointment of Popov Alexander Pavlovich as Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine should consider supporting the draft Decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the appointment of Popov as Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine. [[Registration number 3362]] Please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u88	Thank you. Will there be questions for the committee head? None. Have a seat, please. Yes, I invite the applicant, Alexander Pavlovitch Popov. As long as he's on his way of life, he's born in 1960, he's got vocational education, Tumenian Industrial Engineering and Civil Engineering Institute, builder engineer. Now, literally for a few days, he's been a deputy minister for quite a long time since 1994 and he's been the cosmomol city head of the Poltava region from 1987 to 1993 and he's been serving in the KGB and the Ukrainian Bureau in Poltava -- that's the way of life. Please, Alexander Pavlovich, if you have anything to say, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u89	Thank you. I'll have a few words, if possible. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable Victor Fedorovich, distinguished deputies. You are now faced with a person on the rostrum who has passed a practical path, practical experience, and has solved problems of local self-government. My job as city head of Komsomolska is almost 13 years old, and it has given me this practice. We've had promising and innovative projects that we've implemented, including housing and utilities. The reform of housing and utilities started in our city since 1996. And we have a stable situation today in this regard. I received an invitation to take an active part in the further reform of the residential-communal economy at the level of the Ministry and was invited to serve as deputy minister. I've only been working for a week, and it's a surprise to me that I'm on the rostrum today. But I promise, if my candidature is supported, I will do everything I can to, if there is a historical situation, the political will of the leadership of the country, of the government, of the Supreme Council, of a great deal of experience in local self-government in the area of housing-communal reform, and the already existing legislative framework is all that and that is the guarantee that the reforms and development of housing and housing will be actively carried out in our country. I have a vision for today. I've prepared for the vice-premier as his substitute for the proposal. I don't think it's time we talked about them, but a few words, though. In my opinion, the state must decide as soon as possible on the strategy and timing of reforms. To do this, we need to make some amendments to the previously adopted Law on Reform and Development of the Housing and Communal Economy of our National Programme. Such proposals are now being prepared, and there are several laws that I think are fundamental, for example, the Housing Code, which is also being prepared for consideration in the Supreme Council. And I'm also sure that one of the main directions that is strategically important both for the state and for housing and utilities is the issue of energy-saving technologies. Frankly, I don't see for today a systematic approach to solving this issue, as I can see for today. But I think that soon there will be proposals to do everything possible to motivate this process, especially in housing and utilities, and especially in heat. I want to say that, unfortunately, to date, the policy of the state is to support businesses and, frankly, authorities, including local self-government, which are not working effectively. For example, we cheat debts on businesses that have losses or on individuals who have debts. And those businesses and those people who today are examples of how to behave in society and solve the issues, unfortunately they have no motivation. So I think it's strategically important to consider a few programs that would allow local self-government authorities and businesses to take steps very quickly to help the state motivate the State to reform and develop housing and utilities as soon as possible to solve these problems. As a city head, I introduced a systematic approach to managing problems with my team. Berdyanski and I were among the first to implement the ISO-2001 International Quality System project, which is really a systematic approach to solving any management issue. I think the new ministry will be able to systematically address all the problems that exist. I thank you for your attention and ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u90	Thank you, Alexander Pavlovich. You've satisfied your report by the National MPs, and I don't see them wanting to ask you questions. Do I get it right? That's right. Okay. Have a seat, please. I am voting on Order 3362 on the appointment of Popov Alexander Pavlovich as Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:41:11]] For 248 It's been decided. Welcome, Alexander Pavlovich. Dear colleagues, let's be careful that these decrees take effect from the moment they are adopted, so that we don't have then extremely well-known lawyers without diplomas who say they need to be published and so on and so forth. That's why we vote. I ask even to vote that all the decisions that we do not take take take effect from the moment they are adopted. Please vote. [[11:42:05]] For 246 Dear colleagues, we are going to have a novel today in connection with the Cabinet of Ministers Act. According to article 10 of the Cabinet of Ministers Act, members of the government make up their own prior to taking office. make an oath before the newly elected Supreme Council. So now I invite the ministers to do so and then they will take office. Please, Jacinuk Arseny Petrovich is invited to make an oath. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u91	An oath made by a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine I, Jacinuk Arsenij Petrovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, ensuring the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u92	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. You're already a real foreign minister. All legal conditions are met. He is invited to take the oath of Anatoly Kirilovich, Minister of Economy of Ukraine. Please, Anatoly Kirilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u93	I, Kinakh Anatoly Kirilović, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people. I commit myself to upholding Ukraine’s Constitution and laws, strengthening Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, upholding human and civil rights and freedoms, and caring for the well - being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u94	Thank you. Welcome, Anatoly Kirilovich, to the post of Minister of Economics. To make an oath, I invite Yatsubu Vladimir Grigorovitch, Minister of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u95	I, Yatsuba Vladimir Grigorovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear to the loyalty of the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, caring for the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u96	Yes, welcome, Vladimir Grigorovich, with the appointment of Minister of Regional Development and Construction of Ukraine. Alexander Pavlovich Popov, Minister of Housing and Utilities of Ukraine, is invited to make an oath.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u97	I, Popov Alexander Pavlovich, aware of the high responsibility of a member of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, solemnly swear allegiance to the Ukrainian people, commit myself to upholding the Constitution of Ukraine and the laws of Ukraine, strengthening the sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, upholding the rights and freedoms of man and citizen, ensuring the well-being of the Ukrainian people, and the continued democratic development of society.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u98	Welcome, Alexander Pavlovich, with your entry into office. Dear colleagues, we have completed this question. I'm just calling Anatoly Kirilovich again. Anatoly Kirilovich, I request Anatoly Kirilovich, to request that there be a law that provides for a 20 - day solution to the matter with no delegation, you understand. So I'd like to write a statement that we're at this plenary week, as much as we are. Or the next one, so it doesn't take 20 days. Dear colleagues, let's thank Prime Minister Viktor Fedorovich. [[Applause]] We wish to hold today's historic Cabinet of Ministers meeting successfully, where the 2006 summary and the 2007 mission will be summarized. And I think, Victor Fedorov, that we invite those who want to, namely, the heads of committees and faction leaders to take part in this meeting. And we welcome the ministers that we have so, almost, unanimously appointed, we wish success, and we hope that this Cabinet of Ministers will do anything to start talking to him for reconfirmation in May 2011. [[Applause]] Yeah, and we're moving on. The report of the Coordinating Council on the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation on the status of implementation of the Ukrainian Legislation Adaptation Programme to European Union legislation is being followed. Justice Minister Lavrinovich Aleksandar Volodymyrovich will report. Alexander Volodymyrovich, how old are you? Ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u99	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. Your opinion is proposed by the report of the Coordinating Council for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, which was established in accordance with the law adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 2004 in this room. According to Ukraine's legislative adaptation programme to European Union legislation, Ukraine's national policy on the adaptation of legislation is formulated as an integral part of the legal reform in Ukraine and is geared towards ensuring the only approach to standard-setting, mandatory integration of the European Union's legislative requirements in the design process, the preparation of qualified specialists, the creation of appropriate conditions for institutional, scientific and educational, regulatory, technical and financial support for the process of adapting Ukraine's legislation. The adaptation of Ukraine's legislation is a planned process that includes several successive steps, each of which should achieve a degree of compliance with Ukraine's legislation with the European Union's legal acts. During 2004-2007, Ukraine should ensure that the first phase of the programme is implemented, the main objective of which is to fulfil our State's obligations under article 51 of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between Ukraine and European societies and their States, members of the Treaty of 14 June 1994. If we analyze the state's actions according to the defined programmes and priorities of the first phase of the adaptation of legislation, it can be noted that the program envisioned the creation of a centralized system of translation of acts of European law, the total amount of Aki Comuniiter's translations made in Ukrainian is about 30,000 pages per day. In particular, over the past year, 809 acts have been translated into a total of more than 12,000 pages in total for all acts. To implement the next priority of the first phase of Ukrainian legislation before European Union legislation, comparative legal studies have been carried out in line with Ukrainian legislation in the areas of environment, banking law, health care, and human life. In addition, complex comparative legal research has been carried out in different areas of priority. In particular, this applies to regulation of the market in securities and investment funds, retail financial services, including insurance, safety and quality of food products, government aid, corporate governance, in particular, with regard to merger, division and absorption of societies, energy conservation, transport corridors of gas and naphtopostasis. According to chapter 5, the programme in Ukraine was to be established on the basis of a study and generalization of the relevant experience of the Central and Eastern European States, an effective state-wide mechanism for the adaptation of legislation, including with regard to the examination of draft laws of Ukraine and other legal acts to comply with European Union acts. The mechanism for testing draft laws of Ukraine and other normative acts has been created, but unfortunately, it is currently only working at the level of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. This mechanism allows Aki Communiter to be included in the decision-making process of the Ukrainian government. During 2006, the Ministry of Justice issued 35 expert conclusions on the compatibility of the European Union's draft laws of Ukraine and other legal and regulatory acts developed by the Government of Ukraine. The most illustrative examples of the effectiveness of such work carried out by the government are the areas of accounting and labour protection. The main issue of adapting Ukraine's legislation to Aki's Accounting Commissioner remains the implementation of international standards in Ukraine in this area. During the past year, work on the adoption and development of appropriate regulations was ongoing. A number of projects have been developed and a number of projects have been developed. Yet to talk about moving to the final stage of adaptation in this area is still early. In 2006, both the legislation of Ukraine and the legislation of the member states of the European Union were updated in the field of audit. It should be noted that as early as September 2006, the new edition of the Ukrainian Act on Auditing took into account most of the provisions of the new Directive of the European Union in 2006, further efforts are planned to focus on the creation of methodological and organisational provision of audit activities in order to improve the quality of the preparation of auditors and the provision of audit services, which will bring Ukrainian legislation as close as possible to European Union legislation. Unlike the relatively significant progress made in accounting, the scope of work protection remains a challenge. This involves, inter alia, the fact that the legal and regulatory and technical bases, the settlement of labour protection issues have become materially obsolete, since most of the acts of a regulatory and technical nature have been in operation since the time of the previous State. So the legal base, the regulation of this sphere requires a substantial review. A positive example of the creation of a new regulatory framework in the field of labour protection is the approval of the Order of the State to monitor, as of December 27, 2006, the rules for the protection of work while working on board fishing vessels, which today is fully in line with such approaches in the norms of the European Union. However, in order to ensure the real effectiveness of the planned actions of the government in all areas where legislation is being adapted, it is necessary to carry out an additional review of the draft laws at the level of the Ukrainian Parliament, since the success of the implementation and the objectives of the first phase of the programme depends on concerted action by the government and Parliament. It should also be noted that the adaptation of legislation as such involves not only testing projects, acts of Ukrainian legislation to acts of the European Union, but also developing new adaptation projects. This requires a clear coordinated interaction between the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. In doing so, allow me to draw your attention to chapter nine of the National Adaptation Program, according to which the bill, which is subject to legal regulation in the spheres of law governing European Union law, has special features. In particular, the law provides that draft laws and other legal acts which are subject to legal regulation are subject to the spheres governed by the law of the European Union. It should be noted that during the past year, it was possible to observe how clearly this situation was maintained and when it was not observed. In doing so, it is worth noting that the requirement of the law on the features of project review has not been reflected in the regulations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which poses a problem to date in full compliance with this requirement. No less important aspect of State policy in the area of adaptation is respect for the fundamental principles of law common to all European states. In particular, joint efforts by the government and Parliament need to improve Ukrainian legislation, which directly depends on the implementation of one of the most important European standards, the principle of legal certainty. Finally, the quality of legislation is one of the decisive factors in the country's investment attractiveness, which is one of the main tasks of our state. In particular, in the context of creating a free trade zone with European society. It is worth noting that the situation of Ukraine in the area of adaptation of national legislation to European Union legislation is very different from that of other states that have assumed responsibility in areas defined jointly with the European Union to adapt their legislation. Our nation does not have such an obligation, and it is only an understanding of the purpose of adaptation that is not an end in itself. It should be stressed that the main objective of adapting legislation, as the government understands, is to bring the Ukrainian legal system closer to the modern European system of law, which will ensure the development of the political, entrepreneurial, social and cultural activity of Ukrainian citizens, the economic development of the state and contribute to the progressive growth of the welfare of citizens, will lead to the level that has been established in the states.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u100	Let me finish. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u101	I would like to stress once again that we have the goal of adaptation not to be self-inflicted and that it should contribute to the progressive growth of the well-being of Ukrainian citizens, which should lead to the level that has emerged today in the member states of the European Union. I hope that the materials that you have, the full text of the report of the Coordinating Council, led by the Prime Minister of Ukraine and the reference materials, are convincing enough for the work that was done in accordance with the programme that was approved by the Law passed in this room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u102	Thank you, Alexander Volodymyrovich, sit down, please. I invite you to address the Head of the Committee on European Integration, Natalia Volodymyrski Prokopovich, please, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The integration of Ukraine into the European Union is recognised by all participants in the political process and should result in membership and an additional star on the flag of the European Union. This process is very complex and the solution to almost all major issues is reflected in the improvement of the legal field, i.e. the adaptation of Ukraine's legislation to European Union legislation. Today, Ukraine has created a mechanism for adapting Ukrainian legislation, perhaps not the most perfect one, but it is already working. I would also like to draw your attention to the need to strengthen it, to make it more effective to become a matter of national importance. First of all, we need to create new legislation in line with European principles and standards, because until now, in our legal base, they were simply missing. Ukraine’s existing legislative base is controversial and unstable. And we need to start working together to create a whole system of Ukrainian legislation, because dispersion makes it more difficult to adapt. Because of the 30,000 legal acts in force in Ukraine, the laws make up only 4.6 percent. In doing so, the European Union attaches particular importance to the quality of legal acts. It is known that the Council of the EU has made a special decision on the rules governing their preparation, by which the legal act must be: clear, unambiguous, without excessive application of the abbreviations, without any incomprehensible references to other texts, difficulties that make the act difficult to read. It's different. We all imagine the multifaceted nature of the European legal field, its complex nature, which testifies to the difficulties that lie ahead of us as we reconcile national legislation with that of Europe. Clearly, it is not possible to artificially accelerate this process, but it needs to be able to create the most supportive mode. In our view, each ministry should actually have a separate unit working to analyse the draft legislation in order to comply with EU law at the stage of their preparation and prepare a justification for its adoption, including perhaps with proposals to postpone the implementation of certain rules with the determination of conditions or terms of entry into force. It is clear to everyone that we have at least 5-7 years to use to create balanced Ukrainian legislation adapted to the requirements of EU legislation, taking into account the economic, legal, political and social consequences of adopting appropriate acts. We therefore believe that, in addition to the Department's conclusion on the adaptation of legislation working with the Ministry of Justice, it is necessary to add to the bills the conclusions of the Ministry of Development, which should reflect the basic parameters for assessing the regulatory impact of legislation applied in the member states of the European Union. To this end, we propose to entrust the Cabinet of Ministers with the task of developing a methodology for assessing and predicting the socio-economic impact of legislation, which should include: justifying the need to adopt a regulatory act, predicting its potential impact on the existing system of legislation, finding that the bill is consistent with EU law and international agreements, forecasting the impact of a regulatory act on the development of socio-economic relations, such as the macroeconomic situation, on the development of entrepreneurial relations on the standard of living, on the labour market, etc., and predicting the potential impact of the legal act on the State and local budgets. The same scheme should apply to all without excluding the bills passed by the Ukrainian National Deputies. By the way, we will be asking about amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Rules that would make it impossible for Parliament to pass bills that do not meet the standards of development that are applied in the European Union. Thirdly, there is also a need to promote the expansion and deepening of scientific research on adaptation problems and to ensure that scientific recommendations are put into practice. It is absolutely necessary to have procedures that allow the work of state authorities to be combined with external centres of technical or scientific expertise, such as the Academy of Sciences, research institutes. The experience of Ukraine’s closest neighbours, such as Poland, is illustrated in this regard. In addition, we need to join forces to address the most important challenges: putting in place a new reinforced agreement with the EU, amending Ukraine's Law on a national programme to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation. It's the provision of these.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u104	Let me finish, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u105	Thank you. It was the committee’s intention to provide these processes in the near future. And there's more. Prior to adapting the legal system to European norms, it is essential to adapt the legal culture and its own mentality to the new realities of Ukraine to Europe. The promotion of the ideas of European integration among the population must be of great importance in this process. Our committee is initiating the creation of a European information centre at the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We believe that informing Ukrainian society about the structure, objectives and values of the European Union, the knowledge of the latest developments in co-workers and member countries is extremely relevant. Thus, the centre can become a source of information for representatives of the European community regarding Ukrainian legislative processes and plans. Similar centres function effectively in parliaments of countries that have recently become members of the European Union, such as Latvia and Lithuania. And recently, a similar institution was created in Georgia, among other things, after sounding similar intentions. Finally, on behalf of the Committee on European Integration, I would like to thank the ministries and departments for their fruitful cooperation and, above all, the Department for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to the Legislation of the European Union, which works with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine for the great amount of work done during 2006, and I propose a report issued by the Minister of Justice of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u106	Thank you, Natalia Volodymyrna. Have a seat. Please. So you and I have implemented the rule of law, the rule of law on the National Programme for the Adaptation of Ukrainian Legislation to European Union Legislation, which stipulates that the Supreme Council hears a report every year on the state of implementation of the programme. Here's the report that was published at the plenary meeting of the Supreme Council today and heard. True, it was somewhat disruptive because it should be published by law no later than March 1. We take it to the public and we express our wishes and the Cabinet of Ministers, and our committees of expertise work in that direction to adapt Ukraine's legislation to the European Union's legislation. Dear colleagues, there's a break to 12 o'clock in 37 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u107	Colleagues, let's keep working. A draft law on the exercise of the right to share property is under consideration by the owners of former collective agricultural holdings, registration number 2639. It's a government bill. Reported by the Deputy Minister of Agrarian Politics, Strong Vasil Kuzmić. Get ready for the fish. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u108	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The draft Law on the exercise of the right to share property by owners of former collective agricultural enterprises has been developed to implement the Presidential Decree of 28.12.2005 on the decision of the National Security and Defence Council of Ukraine since 9 December 2005 on the state of the agribusiness complex and measures to ensure Ukraine's food security. The bill defines the organisational and legal principles for the exercise of joint share ownership by owners of former agricultural holdings and regulates the relationship between owners of such rations that have not entered the statutory capital of farm societies, the agricultural cooperatives' rations fund and are not allocated in accordance with the established order of nature, as well as the order of use of non-exorted rations. In selecting a group of co-owners of the stock in kind, the property may be a whole set of structural units of a reorganized collective agricultural enterprise. These are such things as factories, farms, production, areas, and so forth. The number of joint owners of this property is tens of thousands, sometimes hundreds of citizens. That is, the owners of the property have mostly co-owners of the entire agricultural property complex. In accordance with the Ukrainian Cabinet of Ministers Regulation of 28.02.2001, under the heading 177 on settlement of issues relating to the protection of the property rights of farmers in the process of reforming the agricultural sector, the collective agricultural enterprise's property market is documented by the ownership of a member of a collective agricultural enterprise, a small certificate which is cancelled in the case of a group of co-owners in the form of a shareholding in the joint property, as the testimony testifies the individual's right to part of the property in the joint enterprise's equity fund, and the acquisition of the property, of nature, shows the fact that the property is ordered by the property. In view of the lack of a legislatively defined procedure for the enforcement of property rights, a common shareholding and a document confirming the right of a former member of a collective agricultural enterprise to share in the common property poses problems in inheritance, donation, and so forth, a portion of the right to share, partial ownership and coowners of that property cannot form ownership rights and register it in a specified order. Thus, in order to effectively manage and preserve property through the draft law, the order of use of the property in question is implemented through a contract on the order of ownership, the use of property in common property. In this higher body of property management are joint owners who may choose to provide for the management of joint matters of an authorized person with whom a property management contract is made. A monitoring board is being carried out by a person of full authority. Oremo is designed to determine how to use unendurable properties. The draft Law will allow the social and legal relations between owners of former agricultural enterprises in respect of their shareholding rights in a joint, partial property; determine the order of use and allocation of the shareholdings of property in a shared part of the property; address the problem of non-deprecated rations; increase the liability of landowners and other owners of property in a joint, partial ownership of peasants for improperly carrying out obligations under leases; and use of property without properly developing property transfer contracts; ensure the protection of property rights of joint owners; remove the social tension over the exercise of the right to share property. Please support this bill and adopt it in the first reading. The comments made by the main scientific and scientific management will be taken into account for the preparation of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Will there be questions for Vasil Kuzmich? None. Okay, thanks for the good report. No, it's not. Melniczuk. They do. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u110	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec Region Dear reporter! I'm careful. There is no doubt that the bill should be supported, although it needs to be finalized. Nevertheless, perhaps the law should provide for those responsible, and you know that at the end of the 1980s, in the early 1990s, 120 billion agro-industry complex had property in the colonospas and rasposas. But look at this: In today’s paper, there is only $17.3 billion worth of farmed property available to peasants. So when we define that law, we still have to get to the point where the peasants' property was going, where the possessions of the colporteurs were going. So let's say, in your law, this second reading, let's say you want to step up this direction so that we can sort things out and tell people what happened to our farms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. We got these comments from the committee, and there's definitely a question separate from the inventory of the common property, to the inventory of the basic assets that exist in the farms today, first. And then, I fully agree with you that this direction needs to be strengthened, and I'm sure we'll take it into account, your comments, in preparing for the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u112	Yes, and Catherine Semenovna wants to ask a question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u113	Okay, thanks. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, Catherine Samuel Vasil Kuzmovich, I want to ask you two questions. The first question, don't you think it's too late for us to accept this bill, because I agree with my colleague, which is practically, property is already “cut off”, I say to the people. Are we doing this too late? That's the first one. And secondly, isn't it about time to start now from the disposal and, you know, we're going to approach the unification of landowners, to unite everything we have to process the land, because we're an agrarian state. We can't just be with you like that, you know, with a statue or something. And the third. Should it not be necessary to amend the Criminal Code regarding liability to those who have done all they could to make the property practical without taking into account the rights of the owners of the property?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u114	Thank you for asking, Catherine Seed. And I don't have another opinion. We are already late with this process because, in fact, during this time when we have begun to digest and to determine a fraction of everyone’s share of what is left today, we certainly need urgent support. And the adoption of this law will actually allow for the formation of those joint owners that will allow us to provide at least the residual stage of both farms and mechanisms, something that is urgently needed today for development, at least at this stage and to move forward with the development of other projects. Of course, the responsibility needs to be increased, and I agree with you, starting with the leaders, starting with the responsible people, including perhaps a higher level, should be held accountable. There was quite a lot of property, and the result of the despair was quite few.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u115	Thank you, Vasil Kuzmovich, sit down, please. Ribuk Sergey Mikolaiovich, head of the Committee on Agrarian Policy and Land Relations
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u116	Honorable National MPs. Indeed, draft Law No. 2639, which is before you, proposes to determine the organisational and legal principles for the exercise of the right to share partial property of owners of former collective agricultural holdings, form, terms and conditions of joint ownership, joint use of property, order of joint ventures of owners of property, order of use of unsolicited property. And it's mainly about unexploded property rations. Because when I remind you, let me remind you, four million 200,000 people of the former members of the Cologne were entitled to a share, to a piece, to a piece of property, they didn't need another 27 percent today -- that's more than 100,000 people, more than 15 billion dollars of the same property. It needs to be evaluated now, it needs to be inventified, especially, and why such a bill has come into existence, so that not every individual individual who has the right to a piece of property will go to court, excuse me, everywhere and seek his truth, but that he may unite them according to this law. They could choose an authorized person legally and then the legal party would turn to the legal side and resolve all common issues, including those that were now asked questions. Thus, in fact, this law will help to unite those who have not yet separated and there are 27 percent of former, sadly, collective, agricultural enterprises. And in general, the tragedy is that in its own time, in this case, it is happiness, and in general the tragedy is that at the time of the reform of agriculture, sin and righteousness were confused at the highest level. What I mean is, the form of the organization of production and the form of ownership, it's absolutely the opposite thing in principle. And the form of production organization, the collective form of production organization, it's all over the world, so it's competitive that it's collective. And we collectively have to move to private and return to the form of a collective production organization, which is one of the steps in this law, which will allow us to return to collective farming, to the unification of peasants, but on the principles of property rights, to the principles of specific private property. So, as far as the questions that have just been said about responsibility and so forth, this bill just harmonizes, starting with the Civil Code, with other laws on administrative and criminal responsibility, only remains to be organised by this law of peasants and their property rights so that they can legally defend them. So from the above, the Supreme Council Special Committee has decided to recommend to you, the Supreme Council, this draft law on the exercise of the right to share property, owners of the property of former collective enterprises, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u117	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Have a seat, please. Are they willing to share in the discussion? One, two, I see. Please, Melniczuk, Zapuk get ready and we will be determined.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u118	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine The region of Chernobyl. Dear National MPs, dear Adam Ivanovich, surely this is a matter to be discussed, and I have already asked a report of such a question as to the fact that only the crucible of today or the issuance of certificates of property for 17.3 billion, and we had more than 120 billion dollars of property. Where did this all go? No answer. Ribuk, who knows the situation of agriculture, for example, was speaking. Today, peasants are practically left with certificates like no such property, especially if they're asking for protection of their rights, I'll tell you that in most prosecutors they're not protecting peasants, they're protecting someone who's got their property or they're taking credit for it without the peasants' consent, and then this property came out of the hammer and its people. Such mechanisms or, for example, farming are also common. But there's also the excitement without a bereavement, let's say, without the police, without anything, just a good piece of property, took everything from the peasants, tricked them, and all. We know that in the village now most of the pensioners and these people have been deceived. I also refer to the author of the bill: will this bill put Sabluków, Hadewicki, Kuchma under the tribunal or the Attorney General's Office or not? Are we going to find the guilty reformers that have disgraced the village completely, that the large agrarian complex of Ukraine has now been turned into weeds, and the tractor states, the farms have lost their technology, their livestock? Will Ukraine eventually recognize the people who did this? Because it is the very crime, for example, of the highest crime, the most unpunished crime in the country. And I would like to address today our opponents or their flags that remain in this room. You don't need a village, you don't need Ukraine, you need jobs. You and some of you have destroyed the agro-industrial complex, you need to go to the peasants and get on your knees, not leave the hall and not work in this room. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. We work together with Baranovsky, with other experts for second reading, surely this should be the case. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u119	Please, Stepan Zapuk, from the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u120	Stepan Capuch, faction of Party regions. Dear colleagues, I really want to say that the village has been waiting for this bill for a long time. We did so, but the peasants did not actually receive the rations, but they received the papers. And it's just the wise guys, the clever guys, they say, took all the property and the peasant didn't get anything. Today, we are similarly thriving and many residents of the village are making a request, but unfortunately it is very difficult to help in this situation. I think that this law will solve the problem that exists today, and I would also like to point out that today there are examples where agricultural enterprises remain and are very well on their feet. This is, for example, the village of Luganka in Kirovograd, in the region of Petriv, where it can be said that it is a model of an agricultural enterprise that has been preserved together. And I think that this law will preserve such enterprises and give the agricultural workers confidence that there is a future. And in those farms that exist today, and in practice, you can say that they are nothing, empty, and there will be animals, and agriculture will earn and provide an internal market for agriculture. Therefore, distinguished colleagues, I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u121	Thank you. The discussion is over. I am voting on the adoption in the first reading of the Law on the Exercise of Shareholders' Common Property Rights by owners of former collective agricultural holdings. [[Registration number 2639]] Please vote. [[12:56:06]] For 244 Copy that. The factions? All right, he'll hear. The factions. Region Party – 183, "Block Timoshenko" – 5, "Our Ukraine" – 0, socialists – 30, communists – 21, non-fractional – 5. Adopted in the first reading. I'd like to ask a second-reading committee to draw attention to the conclusion of the State Building Committee, because they have good proposals there, I think. So you take that into account when you prepare for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u122	The proposal will be before the second reading, Mikhail Vasilovich. A draft Law is being considered.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u123	There's no such thing now, there's no procedure and there's no motive. But since you are so persistent, give Melniczuk a minute. Because there's something else to come up with.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u124	Adam Ivanovich, you know that in this room from the beginning, let's say Parliament's work has been echoed by the opposition. And I would ask that the newspaper “The Voice of Ukraine” print today's vote, because this is the share of 14 million people. The villagers, who are thus saved by the opposition, at the same time do not support the laws. I would like to make an offer, and I think that the anti-crisis coalition will support the publication of the results of the vote in the newspaper Voice of Ukraine, especially under this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u125	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Let's do a little bit wiser: we'll ask the Voice of Ukraine not to print the entire list, because it's clear which factions, and in the report they give every day from the meeting, to select a place where to indicate which factions have voted without listing the names to save the area, okay? To make it clear to the blacks that the faction of "Regions" is going to be so many voices and so forth, not personal, because it's going to take a lot of space. Agreed. The draft Law on the National Programme for Electronic Documentation with Electronic Digital Signature, Registration No. 2850, Government Bill, is under consideration. The rapporteur is Deputy Minister of Economics, Petnicky Valeriy Teziyovich. Please. To prepare for the Tuck of Volodymyr Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u126	Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable National Deputies! Your attention is given to the draft Ukrainian Law on the Universal Programme of Electronic Documentation with the use of electronic digital signature. This bill is designed to implement Ukrainian laws on electronic documents and electronic documents and on electronic digital signatures, which define the legal principles for the implementation of electronic documents in Ukraine with the application of electronic digital signatures. The programme is expected to be implemented in two stages: the first phase of 2008-2009 plans to develop national standards in the field of electronic digital signature services, electronic document processing and archiving of electronic documents. In particular, requirements for electronic digital signature tools. The creation and protection of electronic digital signature keys for public authorities, local governments, businesses, institutions, and organizations. Implementation, further development and acquisition of the software and technology complex of the second line of the Central Intelligence Authority technology centre. Developing concepts and creating an archive of electronic documents and key opener certificates. Implementation of educational programs for the training of experts in public institutions and organizations in the field of electronic documentation. At the second stage, it is envisaged to introduce electronic documents with the use of electronic digital signatures in public authorities, local self-government bodies at enterprises, institutions and organizations, as well as to simplify procedures, such as in the area of licensing of business activities and taxation of legal persons and natural persons, their state registration in the field of banking and other financial services in external economic activities. The funding of the program for the central authorities and local self - government bodies is envisaged at the expense of the relevant government and local budgets. In addition, funding for the introduction of electronic documents for individuals and legal persons will be made at the expense of their own resources. The amount of funding of the programme's actions from the State budget is 4 million 55,000 dollars for 2008-2009, including 3 million 90,000 in 2008 and 965 thousand dollars in 2009 and is determined by the Ukrainian State Budget Act for the year in question. The adoption of the bill will ensure that the procedure for contracting, licensing, paying taxes, importing, customs, transport and other operations, including online services, is not met. The experience of implementing electronic documenting with the use of electronic digital signatures will be provided. shows that this will save up to 20-30 percent of the annual cost of paper processing. The bill was discussed at a meeting of the Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Science and Education, which recommended that it be accepted as a basis. Please support the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u127	Thank you, Valery Teziyovich. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Have a seat. Head of the Committee on Science and Education, Tkachenko Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Catherine Semenovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u128	The faction forbade Tachchenka from performing at the session.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u129	Oh, he's one of those. Okay, Catherine Seed. Let's raise the level. The committee head will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u130	I think we're going to do very nicely: let him stay, and not just him, on the naked salary of an MP without intensity and no bonus, then the reports will come. And I recommend that we do this to the other committee heads. Believe me, I've done this before: it works, and it works. Dear colleagues, the deputy minister, clearly and clearly reported on the bill. It's just necessary. We're a little out of date, and we've forgotten something about it to such an extent that if there's no paper, and there's no handwritten paper, and there's no hand written report, it's like there's no life left. That's why we're really offering along with the Ministry of Economics. So that we can adopt, on the first reading, a state-wide electronic documenting program. I mean, we've been working on this a little bit. The current rate of this problem is constantly increasing, Ukraine is lagging behind other countries, but I think the adoption of this program will boost our state. In 2003, the first steps were taken: we adopted the laws of Ukraine. But this program, it already, really, you see, provides for funding. It is small, more than four million dollars, but it is necessary. On this legislative basis, the government of Januković took a second step during 2003-2004: a number of regulations have been adopted to ensure the enforcement of these laws. So we passed laws. There are also normative acts at the government level, but we need to adopt this programme in order to be able to bring this problem to the level by 2011, we will be speaking, not even European, but the world level. And so I propose that the Committee on Science and Education at its meeting on 13 February 2007, with the participation of the Ministry of Economics, reviewed this bill and decided to recommend it to the Supreme Council of Ukraine as a basis. I would, even, offer in general, but the deputy minister now, coming out of the rostrum, whispered that let's see, maybe funding something there would change by about a hundred thousand dollars more. That is why I would suggest to the Ukrainian people's deputies without discussion, because it is a necessary document to accept this national programme as a basis in the first reading and to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u131	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yes, the representative of the President of Ukraine, Roman Mikhailovich Zvaric, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u132	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, allow me to inform you that the President of Ukraine agrees, in principle, with the need to move to an electronic document system. And of course, she appreciates the very legislative initiative taken by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. However, the President of Ukraine just insists that the programme be implemented with strict compliance with the requirements of national legislation, particularly the two basic laws in this area, they have already been named, I repeat, this is the law on electronic documents and electronic documents and the law of Ukraine on electronic digital signature. Let me say, for my part, that these two laws of Ukraine are very well written, and that is why we should not pay attention to this situation. The President of Ukraine points out that it is unacceptable for individual authorities or central executive authorities to introduce different types of use of electronic digital signatures or non-compliance with the requirements laid down by these two normative acts, or sometimes even against the requirements of the current Ukrainian legislation. The president of Ukraine has information that this practice is being applied by individual central authorities today. Therefore, the President of Ukraine demands a government of Ukraine, which consists of two separate points. Firstly, ensure the continued enforcement and enforcement of Ukraine's laws in the area of electronic document processing and electronic digital signature by, inter alia, the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine and the central executive authorities. And secondly, to ensure the proper financial security of the measures provided for in this programme, because otherwise the objectives and tasks contained in this programme will remain declarations. In fact, such funding is also provided by the program itself. However, the program does not specify the size and proportion of budget expenditures in individual positions. On the contrary, with regard to local authorities, the program refers to so - called other sources of funding that the President of Ukraine considers unacceptable. I should also draw attention to the conclusion of the Scientific and Experimental Authority, and I will not repeat it, but the President of Ukraine agrees with that conclusion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u133	Thank you, Roman Mikhailovich, but I have no doubt that the President of Ukraine is reading our conclusions. Yeah, we'll talk about it? No one insists on discussing it. Then I'm voting on the adoption on the basis of the Law on the National Programme for the Implementation of Electronic Documents with the use of electronic digital signatures. Registration number 2850. Please vote. [[13:09:45]] For 237 Thank you. Copy that. But I would ask for a profile committee, Catherine Seminally, I would ask you that if you worked for the second reading, really look at the proposals that Roman Mikhailovich made, in order to take into account what was said on behalf of the President. There will be less trouble signing the law. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Restrictions is under consideration, registration number 2597. Lavrinovich Alexander Volodymyrovich, Minister of Justice. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The draft law aims to introduce a single system of state registration of real estate rights and their burdens, which will ensure an adequate level of protection of the rights of natural and legal persons to immovable property guaranteed by the Constitution of Ukraine. In order to achieve the objectives set out in the project, it is envisaged that the functions of introducing the State Land cadastre and the State registration of real estate rights and their burdens should be delimited. Designate the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine as a special authority of the central executive authority in the field of State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. The bulk of the components, in addition to the land rights information required to form the registration system, have already been created and successfully operated by the Ministry of Justice. Such components are: the only register of prohibitions on the alienation of immovable property, the inheritance register, the register of property rights for immovable property, the state register, and the state register of mortgages. State registration of rights is carried out according to the principle of a single window, which is that all rights and constraints on immovable property will be registered in one body, both in the land and in the objects on which they are located. Notaryus will have access to the State Register of Rights when performing notary actions. This is necessary, for in certifying real estate contracts, he must make sure that there is no ban on his alienation or arrest. At the request of property subjects who will be registered in the State Register for the sale, exchange, and gift of immovable property, they will immediately contact the Notary for a certificate of the relevant contract. The draft law provides for changes to the Civil Code of Ukraine, which are aimed at excluding the provisions on the state registration of fatherhood in relation to immovable property, which are now registered in the public register of fatherhood. Because they are to become an integral part of the future state registry. The Ministry of Justice agreed with the aim of cooperating with the Ukrainian Act on the State Land cadastre, on the need to exclude from the draft law provisions which provided for amendments to articles 193, 196, 202 of the Earth Code. However, he suggests that the proposed amendments to articles 125 and 126 of the Land Code be made to the new law, which will provide that the right of citizens to land acquired through their free transfer from state and municipal property. The privatisations of land that have been made available to them will be made public and, in all other cases, will be certified by civil law contracts and will not require the re-issue of the property right to land. There was agreement between the two bills on two committees on economic policy issues and the agrarian one on the part of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I want to make it clear that article 125 is now proposed to be published in such an editorial, property rights and the right of permanent land use, land lease rights, and land service rights are created at the time of the state registration of these rights, in accordance with the law. And 126 should now look like this: “The rights of citizens to land acquired through their free transfer from state utility lands, the privatization of land that they have been given to use, are formed by state acts. The right of permanent use is established by State acts, forms of State acts are approved by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The right of ownership of the land of citizens and legal persons, in addition to the cases provided for in part one of this article, is governed by agreements for the sale of mines, donations, other civil law contracts, certificates of inheritance and other documents that confirm the origin or transfer of ownership to the land. Land lease rights are contractually established. When these changes were made, two bills were fully harmonized and two committees, with the participation of the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, agreed that this text could be supported as a whole today as a law. I'm asking the Ukrainian people's deputies to support it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u135	Thank you. Are there any questions? None. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, head of the committee, committee on economic policy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u136	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, Economic Policy Committee at its meeting on 21 February 2007, Protocol No. 21, discussed the Ukrainian Cabinet's Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registering of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions. Registration No. 2597 of 27.11.2006 The bill provides for a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on the National Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions, as well as a corresponding amendment to the Ukrainian Civil and Earth Code and the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine to harmonize them with the new law. The draft law proposes to limit the functions of the State registration of real estate rights and their limitations and the State-Earth cadastre. Also, determine the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine as a special authority empowered by the central executive authority in the field of State registration of immovable property rights and their loads. According to members of the committee, the adoption of the bill will unlock the situation that has resulted in the creation of a system of state registration of real estate rights, which will help protect the rights of natural and legal persons to immovable property and create favourable conditions for market relations and for the activation of investment activities. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believes that the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions may be adopted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that, in the first reading, the draft of the Ukrainian Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions. In view of the adoption at this week of the State Land Cadastre Act in this session hall, in order for these two laws to correspond and not contradict each other, I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading, taking into account the proposals made by Justice Minister Alexander Lavrinović. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u137	Thank you, sit down, please. Roman Mikhailovich Zvarić, please represent the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u138	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine. The issue of the creation of an effective system of State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations is extremely important and is under the constant attention of the President of Ukraine. The main task of the Ukrainian Act on State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations is to create effective conditions for the protection of immovable property rights, other property rights and their limitations, to facilitate the circulation of immovable property in the market and so on. However, according to the President of Ukraine, the task was not solved. And the only system, I would stress, is that the only system for registering real estate rights doesn't actually work today. So the problem that the bill proposes to solve is really relevant. However, according to the President of Ukraine, the proposed bill does not contain sufficient mechanisms to address this problem. In fact, the proposed changes are that state registration is transferred from the State to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. I would like to point out immediately here that the President of Ukraine has a positive attitude toward uniting this function in one department. Moreover, the Ministry of Justice is actually running such a register, just by excluding ownership of land. And in view of the fact that this is the basic circumstance that still prevents us from moving to a full system of hypothetical financing, the President of Ukraine believes that it is a logical step towards transferring these functions from the State Committee to the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. On the other hand, it is surprising to the President of Ukraine that a decision was taken yesterday by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to approve in the first reading of the Ukrainian Law on State Land cadastre, since in this bill the functions of maintaining the State Land cadastre and more registration of land ownership remain in the administration of the State Committee on Land Resources. Since this bill has received the support of the anti-crisis coalition, which in turn normally coordinates its position, at least there is good reason to come to, with the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, there is, of course, a question in the President of Ukraine, which is in fact the position of the Cabinet of Ministers and the anti-crisis coalition on this issue. So let's sum it up. Of course, you have to make a decision on one side or the other. And so the President of Ukraine believes that the adoption of this law should conceptually correct those positions that do not conform to the norms that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u139	Thank you, Roma Mikhailovich. Are there speakers? Pinchuk, please, microphone and Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u140	Pinchuk, “Regions” faction. Dear colleagues, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers, the bill provides for a new edition of the Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions, as well as amendments to the Civil and Land Codes and the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. The project foresees, firstly, delimiting the functions of maintaining state registration of real estate rights and their limitations and identifying the Ministry of Justice as a special authority authorized by the executive authority in the area of registration of real estate rights and their loads. Experts believe that the creation of a single system of state registration of real estate rights in the Minsk system will have a positive impact on the development of the land market. As noted in the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office, the reliable work of the State Real Estate Registration System is one of the conditions necessary to abolish the moratorium on the alienation of agricultural land, introduced by amendments to the Land Code on the prohibition of the sale of agricultural land prior to the adoption of the relevant legislative acts. In view of the arguments put forward, we propose the adoption of Bill No. 2597. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u141	Thank you. Zybenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u142	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, the Communist faction believes that this bill should be supported with at least three motives. Well, first of all, there are a number of problems that need to be addressed in the area of state registration of immovable property rights and their limitations, and so there is a need to adopt a new law. This is no doubt vital, for each individual, every citizen, at one stage or another, faces a range of problems that may arise from the irregularity of these problems. This is the first time. Secondly, we are really adopting the Law on State Land cadastre yesterday, and we have made a number of warnings when this document is adopted, and they usually have to be in line with the document that is today, and it is a perfectly normal parliamentary practice that should be used. And thirdly, my dear colleagues, I want to say that this bill that we are currently considering is slightly different from the situations that sometimes arise in the Supreme Council Hall because we are either amending the law or adopting a new law, and then in the second stage we are starting to bring other legislation into line with that law. That's the nice one. It's a nice exception when we try to adopt a new law-making document and at the same time make appropriate changes to those legislative acts that relate to property rights. I think we should accept this document in the first reading and take into account the discussion of what happened during the discussion and take this document to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u143	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. I'll remind you that yesterday, when we passed the Land Cadastre Act, we took into account absolutely all the proposals that, as it were, should have been cut. Not to go against this law, so there's no contradiction here because you and I received it yesterday. I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions. Registration number 2597. Please vote. [[13:26:30.]] For 246 Copy that. We're talking about ratification. Dear colleagues, draft law on the ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in respect of income taxes and capital. Both the Ministry of Finance and Mikhailo Vasilovich Melnichuk as a reporter for the Committee on Finance and Banking are asking us to adopt the Law on the Ratification of this Convention. Is there no objection? Please, I am voting on the Law on the Ratification of the Convention between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion on income taxes and capital. Registration number 0064. Please vote. [[13:27:37]] For 240 The law is passed. Convention ratified. Section “Abbreviated procedure”. Please make a decision on the reduced procedure. Vote. [[13:28:05]] For 237 Copy that. A draft Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation, registration number 2637, is under consideration. [[for Rent Relations]] Please, Semenjuk Valentina Petrovna, State Property Fund. Two minutes. Prepare Chetchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u144	Honourable Chairman, Honorable National MPs, Honourable Media Agents and Ukrainian Citizens! I bring to your attention the draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine, number 2637. [[for Rent Relations]] The draft law is designed to improve issues related to the transfer of state property to a lease according to its market value, the improvement of the leased property mechanism, the resolution of other problems arising from the application of the Law on Renting Stately Communal Property today. The bill provides that changes have been made to the Code of Lords, and we voted with you in this session hall and amended Article 75 of the Code of Master, amended the Law on Rent of State and Municipal Property to harmonize their standards, introduce a mechanism for determining the value of rent, improve the mechanism for the return of leased property, resolve the issue of extending the provisions of the Law on Rent of State and Municipal Property to a public, national holding company where 100 per cent belongs to the State and you repeatedly point to the violations that we often have in rent relations and this will enable us to accept as soon as possible, correct the mistakes that you point out. The adoption of the bill does not require additional material costs, but it will enable the implementation of the 2007 budget law, which is approved in the session hall and the corresponding standard is allocated to the State and Municipal Property Rental Budget. This relevant bill is in line with all ministries, committees-supported departments and the scientific and expert department's comments on the second reading will be taken into account. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u145	Thank you, Valentina Petrovna, sit down, please. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u146	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, Committee of the Supreme Council on Economic Policy at its meeting on February 21, 2007, reviewed the draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on rent relations, registration number 2637 of 30.11.2006, introduced by the Cabinet of the Minister of Ukraine. The bill proposes to introduce a number of changes to the Ukrainian Economic Code and the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Municipal Property, aimed at improving issues related to the transfer of State property to rent according to its market value, improving the mechanism for the return of leased property, resolving other issues arising under the Ukrainian Law on Renting State and Communal Property, dealing with the extension of Ukrainian law on the rental of state and municipal property on public, national, shareholding companies, holding companies, 100 per cent of which are owned by the State, etc. The main scientific and expert office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its conclusion of 05.02.2007 supports the bill, however. He says that he has a few important points to make. According to the government, the project can be based on the following comments and suggestions. The committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law amending certain Ukrainian legislation on leases, registration number 2637 of 30.11.2006, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, to be adopted on the first reading on the basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u147	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich, sit down. Shall we vote? I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain Ukrainian legislation on leases, registration number 2637. [[13:33:04]] For 242 Copy that. The Draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Legislative Acts, registration number 2340, is under consideration. [[on the reform of property relations in the field of lysing]] The head of the Committee on Economic Policy, Mr. Yuri Mikolayovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u148	Bill 2340, sponsored by Prokopović and Svetash, was considered by the Committee on Economic Policy at its meeting on 10 January this year. In its consideration of the bill, a number of comments were made that were in principle consistent with the conclusions of the Supreme Council's Chief Scientific and Expert Office. At the same time, the bill drew their attention to the fact that the 2235 bill, which was also sponsored by Mr. Svetash, was almost similar, and many of them were repetitive, with little distinctions. Bill 2235 of the Supreme Council has already been considered in this Hall. And it was decided that it should be submitted for finalization. From the Committee's point of view, of these bills, 2235 and 2340, which we are considering today, 2235 is the most successful. It would be appropriate to take into account Bill 2340 when finalizing Bill 2235. As decided by the Committee. In this connection, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine send this bill to the authors.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u149	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich. Got the idea? I think we should support the committee and ask them to bring these two bills together when we look at them, then we'll see them as solid. I am voting on the proposal of a profile committee to send draft law number 2,340 to the author of the legislative initiative. Please vote. [[13:35:36]] For 241 Copy that. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the peculiarities of the privatization of unfinished buildings, 2375. Ivan Mikolaiovich Bondarczuk, please. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u150	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. Ukraine's draft Law on Amendments to Ukraine's Law on the Specificities of Privatization of Unfinished Construction Objects was introduced by Ukrainian National Deputies Bondarczuk, Polakiv, Bogachuk. The bill proposes a mandatory independent valuation of the value of unfinished construction objects subject to privatization, the land on which they are located, and the arrangements for the conclusion of sales contracts. The main purpose of the project is to introduce the rules of the Ukrainian Law on the peculiarities of privatization of unfinished construction objects, in line with the provisions of Ukrainian laws: “For the valuation of property”, “Minoral rights and professional valuation activities in Ukraine” and “For the assessment of land”, in particular in the part of the definition of the value of an unfinished object when it is estranged by non-competitive means, as well as to regulate the arrangements for the investment of sales contracts and the acquisition of ownership rights in the event of the privatisation of unfinished construction objects. Amendments to article nine of the bill propose that the cost of unfinished construction objects be determined, not on the basis of a balance sheet, but on the basis of indexation, as provided for by a valid edition of this part, but by an independent evaluation. The cost of an unfinished building when sold under consideration is also suggested by an independent assessment. Amendments to article 10 of the bill suggest that the value of the land in which the building is located is determined by the entities of the assessment activity in the area of land assessment based on an expert valuation. The Economic Policy Committee proposes to adopt the bill in its first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u151	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Shall we vote? I am voting on the proposal for a committee to adopt in the first reading of the Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Specificities of Privatisation of Unfinished Construction Objects. Registration number 2375. Please vote. [[13:38:30.]] For 237 Copy that. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy is under consideration. [[on specialized metallurgical processing enterprises and calculations in metallurgy]] Registration number 2510. Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u152	Matvienkov, factions of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Seven years ago, we passed a scrap metal bill and during that time there were some changes in the process, but life is not in place and constantly demands that this process be adjusted, especially for the State that is the seventh largest metal producer in the world, the State that is the main backbone of the steel economy. What is the essence of the bill so that it will not be said long to understand the very essence of the bill? To date, enterprises that are specialized in scrapping are divided into two parts. Half of them are enterprises that rent available equipment and lease equipment. The second group of enterprises is those enterprises that have ownership of the equipment. The tenant is a tenant, and we often face situations where leased equipment ends after a while, equipment moves from hand to hand and we cannot, so to speak, find a mechanism of responsibility for these enterprises. I mean, in a large way, the tenant's not risking anything by running a business like this. This gives birth to one-day firms, it creates the money-laundering that is available in this business, it creates a situation where to date there are once again 1,000 700 licenses in this market. In order to establish order, we suggest, so to speak, that these firms record that specialized enterprises must be such that they manufacture and process scrap metal, have qualified personnel, provide explosive safety, fire, environmental, radiation safety and must have property, and the necessary specialized, scrappering, cargo equipment and weight management. That is, so that we really put this business on a more certain scale. At the time when we had, let us say so, the easy workflow had been done, it was necessary to keep the matter in order. I suggest you accept it on first reading, there are questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u153	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. George Mikolaiovich of the Committee on Economic Policy, a report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u154	Dear colleagues, this bill was considered by the Committee on Economic Policy on 7 February this year, Protocol No. 18. By an overwhelming majority of the members of the committee, the bill was decided to support it. And here's the reason. The order in this sector of the people's economy, more precisely its location, has long become necessary. The problems that now exist in the metal industry and, more precisely, the lack of ownership of it and the problems that arise from cities, settlements as transport, as with telephone lines, as with the roofs of these hatches and so on, these problems have already led the people of our country to some point of boiling. When whole settlements run out of electricity, without a telephone connection, this can no longer be tolerated. This bill will not, at all, solve the problem by 100 per cent. At the same time, however, it allows many questions to be addressed in this regard. The Committee of the Supreme Council therefore recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the bill and adopt it on first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u155	Thank you, Yuri Mikolaiovich, sit down, please. Vote? I am voting on the Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Metallurgy, registration number 2510, in the first reading. [[13:43:06]] For 244 Copy that. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State and Municipal Property Rental is under consideration. [[on the protection of the rights of owners]] Registration number 2861. Boris Jakovitch Bezlodz, please prepare Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u156	Dear colleagues, your point is to solve the problem small by size, but very large by meaning. I met her when I was a deputy from the constituency and there was this situation where local government authorities leased some utility property, and then the lease ended, and they couldn't bring it back because the owner said, according to the law, I have the predominant right to continue the lease. It's not the owner, it's the renter. And it turned out that the owner couldn't get his own property back, which he leased, which is a totally abnormal situation. And given that during a period of severe economic downturns there were many, many people were renting property, then swearing a little, strengthened, wanted to return it, and there was no way. And here's the essence of the 2861 bill, which is supported by the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority, the Professional Committee, and I see that the National Property Fund of Ukraine is supported. I'm sure he'll be supported by a session hall. There is another small story that relates to the approval of investment programs. Today, for example, if an entity is included in a list of enterprises in need of foreign investment, the local council can do so. Well, it's not normal and it's only proposed to leave behind the Cabinet of Ministers this right to decide whether foreign investment is necessarily needed or not. But this question is still relative to the second row, and there are some suggestions other, more radical scientific expertise. And I think these proposals don't prevent us from adopting the law, but they stimulate us. And in conclusion, I'd like to speak in support as organs of local self-government. By adopting this law, which is small in scope, we will indeed allow the authorities of local self - government to greatly improve their material base and not just them. Thank you for your attention. And I am convinced of your support.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u157	Thank you, Boris Yakovitch, for supporting local self-government. That's true. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u158	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft Act proposes to introduce a number of changes to the Ukrainian Act on State and Municipal Property Rental, aimed at clarifying the content of its individual provisions, in order to further improve it, particularly to protect the rights of the owner of state and municipal property. Yes, part of the fourth article of the 9th Act on State and Municipal Property Rental provides that the lease may be refused if the object is included in the list of enterprises requiring foreign investment in accordance with a decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine or local authorities. The stated right of local executive authorities is proposed to be removed, since such decisions should be solely the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Article 17 of the valid law on the rent of state and municipal property provides for the unconditional right of a conscientious tenant to extend the lease, the natural right of the owner not to rent the property at all, whose lease has expired, needs to be secured by law. It is proposed that the said conflict be clearly and unequivocally settled, providing for the owner’s first priority right to continue to use the property, whose lease has expired. It is also proposed to remove from the text of the law references to arbitral tribunals that no longer exist in Ukraine. The General Conclusion of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Chief Scientific and Expert Office: As a result of the first reading of the draft Ukrainian Act amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, it can be accepted on the basis of comments and suggestions made. The Economic Policy Committee recommends to the Supreme Council that the draft law be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-03-21-m0.u159	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Vote? Okay. Then I am voting on the adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Law on State and Municipal Property Rental, registration number 2861. [[on the protection of the rights of owners]] Please vote. Boris Jakovic, uphold your law. [[13:48:11]] For 242 Copy that. Thank you. We've worked for walkers, don't worry. Dear colleagues, all the questions raised for the consideration of the agenda, we have discussed with you, including additional personnel issues. The morning session of the Supreme Council is closed. I remind you that since 15 hours we will be holding parliamentary hearings: “Protecting the intellectual property rights of Ukraine. Law enforcement and enforcement problems.” Since 16 o'clock, work on committees and factions. Good luck.
