ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u1	Good morning, dear colleagues, invited and guests of the Supreme Council. People's deputies, please prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, we register. [[10:01:33]] There are 261 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. Dear colleagues, Alexi Petrovich Malinowski's birthday, let's welcome him. [[Applause]] And we're going to express our wish that in a year we're in this sessional room, we're going to welcome Alexi Petrovich to her birthday. In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, we have 30 minutes on Wednesday for statements by national deputies with proposals, announcements, messages. Please write down who wants to participate. Yes, please, 30 minutes. Please, Blue, faction of the Party of the Regions. Vernubov's ready. You don't? Is it? Oh, from where? You can go to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u2	I beg you to pass the word to Chernobyl.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u3	Please, Mr. Cranowil Taras.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national deputies of Ukraine, respected our television viewers! I think today, when it becomes clear that there will be no elections on May 27th, because the President's decree itself has set the parameters that make it impossible to hold these elections, we need to pause and assess the situation and make certain conclusions. I may say something that's not expected for many, but all the facts confirm it, we didn't get the point of these events at first, and I think the President of Ukraine is starting to catch it now, and we have to make the same conclusions about what the Ukraine is pushing for. Indeed, the initiators, the real initiators of today’s political crisis, had no purpose in holding successive parliamentary elections. This whole war was not against Parliament, not against coalition, not against government, because the initiator. Julius Timoshenko is well known for not winning the election, and the whole sociology testifies to the fact that the election in turn will preserve the same situation in Parliament and the same Cabinet of Ministers. Really. There have been actions aimed at holding successive presidential elections, and this is the main direction that has been tried and tried, including with our hands to implement our colleagues, who are now absent from the BUTT faction and, in fact, the leader of the Yulia Block, Timoshenko herself. This direction envisioned the introduction of Victor Yushchenk as President of Ukraine into an unconstitutional field as a result of his being subjected to a notoriously unconstitutional decree, provided for his consideration in the Constitutional Court and as a result of his being declared unconstitutional under the condemnation of the entire world public, including the European Union, the Council of Europe, and other institutions. And to date, there have actually been attempts to change the President in the country, to put Julia Timoshenko in this position, and in this way to usurp all power. A party of regions says we don't want to be involved in these dirty robes. We continue to insist - the decree is unconstitutional, it must be reviewed either by the President himself or by the Constitutional Court's decision, and then we must return to normal negotiations, to normal cooperation and maintain peace and tranquillity in the country. The logic of the President's actions today shows that he has already understood this situation, he realized that the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is absolutely predicted, will be a judgment for him, because the consequences are either the need to renounce office itself or the possibility of initiating an impeachment procedure. We are against this development, and we are again addressing the President to stop playing with ambition, to stop playing with the spread of ultimatums and unconstructive requirements, to return to normal dialogue, because sooner or later the Constitutional Court's decision will not be in favour of the President. Today's most logical solution is to appeal by the President to his illegal decree, to return everyone to the table of negotiations, to compromise on the one hand, and on the other hand to the benefit of the State, not to the benefit of one or the other political power. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u5	Thank you, Taras Viacheslavovich. I'm the only one I'd like to ask not to go ahead with the court ruling. What it'll be like, none of us know. We'll know when it is. Please, Verni Dubov Ivan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u6	Dear Adam Ivanovich, allow me to pass on the word to Hari Vassil Georgiyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u7	Hara Vasil Georgievovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Once again, on behalf of the Party of the Regions, I would like to state the peacekeeping position of the Party of the Regions and the coalition in a very tense hour for our Fatherland. If we are a European country, if we recognize the rule of law, then all political forces, including the President, must support the coalition's proposal to await the Constitutional Court's decision and accept it, however it may be. In view of the extremely tense situation in the State, we ask the Constitutional Court, since it has recognized this issue as an urgent matter, to consider the representation of the people's deputies on the constitutionality of the Presidential Decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council without delay. I want to tell you the following. The coalition extended the opposition's hand yesterday, made a proposal inviting them to 14 hours, and specifically the factions Our Ukraine and Yulia Timoshenko to a meeting of the Coordinating Council to discuss the situation and find some solutions to the very difficult situation in which our country is located. Unfortunately, however, we note the fact that the opposition has once again ignored this peacekeeping proposal. It is not enough that the opposition has once again offered to discuss political arrangements that look worse than the ultimatum. Think about what they're offering us. First: To recognize the coalition as illegal. Second: All decisions of the Supreme Council after 2 April are illegal. Third: Presidential decree to declare constitutional. Fourth: impose a moratorium on Maidan. Fifth: To adopt an imperative mandate for the people's deputies. Sixth: holding early elections. And so on. Total 17 paragraphs. As you can see, they do not want to wait for a decision by the Constitutional Court because they predict that it will not be able to justify the anti-constitutionality of the President's decree. It is little that the President's Secretariat has initiated a project that begins the idea that any decision of the Constitutional Court will be a political one. The President's secretariat and the President personally put pressure on the Constitutional Court, while blaming the Prime Minister and the coalition. This is being played out in order to undermine the work of the Constitutional Court. We understand with you that there is no point in either the Prime Minister or the coalition to press the Constitutional Court, as they are all sewn with white threads. However, there is little more than one project that began to be played by the President's Secretariat yesterday, and some of the judges of the Constitutional Court have refused to consider the matter, without specifying the specific reasons and names that put pressure on them, and these judges have by chance been the quota of the President. They forgot about the oath, the civil debt, and so on. To be honest, I have the humane regret of the President, whom Timoshenko, Balog and the company have brought into a situation from which he cannot get out – there are no legal mechanisms for implementing the President's anti-constitutional decree. We therefore turn to the President once again: withdraw the decree, sit at the negotiating table and take the country out of the picture.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u9	Thank you. Deputies! First of all, I'd like your performances, our performances, not to mention any insults or anything. The situation is what it is. We're going to bring it out into clean water on the basis of the Constitution, and that's inevitable. This will happen because this is what the Constitution predicts. That's why we can give grades, but we don't complain to anyone, because we do. “There is no council,” the Levites once said. And now I would like to report what he is taking into account in the work of our meeting. A delegation from the State Duma of Russia led by the coordinator of a group of friendships between Ukraine and Russia, Lebedev Alexander Evgenović, and we are pleased to welcome them. Welcome. [[Applause]] Have a seat, please. Bondarchuk Alexander Mikolayovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u10	Please hand over Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u11	Jaroslav Mendus speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u12	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues. President Yushchenko, after issuing an anti-constitutional decree, went beyond the constitutional field, broke the President's oath and committed, in my opinion, an official crime. Outside the country, Yushchenka’s actions are viewed as causing a crisis in Ukraine. This was the reason why the rapporteurs of the parliamentary committee of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, Renate Wolvent and Hanna Severnzen, expressed serious concern. Today, Vice President of the European Parliament, Marek Soviets, and the delegation of our colleagues from the State Duma, have arrived to familiarize themselves with the political situation in Ukraine. In the near future, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Venice Commission will also make their assessment of the unconstitutional decree. Unfortunately, the President’s Secretariat continues to take steps to further destabilize the state. Yes, special concern is raised by yesterday’s remarks by one of the heads of the Secretariat of President Alexander Chalogo, who stated that the Constitutional Court’s decisions could not serve as a solution to the political crisis. The President's secretariat is also seeking to discredit the entire judicial system in Ukraine. It's a very disturbing signal for society as a whole. But why be surprised? If Yushchenko himself named the decision of the Supreme Court to restore the position of governor of the Kyiv district of Jovtak the show, he had not yet complied with the Supreme Court’s decision. I would like to remind you that Victor Yushchenko became President precisely because of the Supreme Court, which he now, as a guarantor of the Constitution, refuses to comply with. In addition to the political evaluations, however, I would also like to draw the attention of citizens to the hugely symptomatic statement about the situation in Ukraine that came out of Austria. This person’s thinking should be authoritative to the President, for this expert, like no one else, can objectively assess the level of reasonableness of Victor Yashchenk. This is Professor Mikola Corban, who in 2004 saved Victor Yushchenk's life after severe poisoning, rewarded by the Order “For Credits” and in his address to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Supreme Council, he said literally: “The full and adequate response to the political crisis in Ukraine can only be to the national will of both the new President and the new composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It is only a gross mistake to think of new elections to Parliament. That's half the solution. I think Victor Yushchenka's doctor has made the right political diagnosis." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u13	The word is Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u14	Please pass the word to Alexei.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u15	Please, Igor Alexeyev speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'd like to begin with a statement by America's famous futurologist Elvin Tufleur. He said, in the original language, I want to say: “Many of us know or feel the dangerous world we live in. We know that social instability and political uncertainty can lead to wild energy. We know what war and economic cataclysm mean and remember how often totalitarianism arose from noble intentions and social destruction. However, many seem to ignore the positive differences between the present and the past.” I think that the actions of today’s so - called united opposition are just like those positive differences between the real and the past. Prejudiced statements by the so-called opposition against the Constitutional Court's decision in the event that this decision is not in their favour are clear evidence of the real intentions of the political groups which, based on the Presidential office of Yashchenka and for its direct support, are aimed at destroying the principles of parliamentaryism in Ukraine and establishing a nationalistic dictatorship, their willingness to force the collapse of the constitutional system. Instead, the National Unity Coalition did not have any cases of possible disagreement with the Constitutional Court’s verdict. No warning from the Communists about the pressure of the President's Secretariat and the Yushchenka himself, the meeting of the last of the individual judges of the Constitutional Court, and their attempts to make a wrong decision, as well as the monitoring and hearing of individual judges of the Constitutional Court, has been refuted. Yesterday's theatre demoralization of several Constitutional Court judges who were elected by the President's quota and “Our Ukraine” is a testimony to that furious presidential pressure on the court. By the way, the decision to transfer almost a week to review the submission on unconstitutionality of the Yuschenk Order on the permanent termination of the Supreme Council's powers. And this is when the fate of the country is decided whether or not to be Ukraine's only state. The fact that the incumbent judges of the Constitutional Court, who were appointed by the presidential political group, committed official crimes, publicly outside the official procedure for the declaration of the result of court hearings, supported their patron and employer is another clear testimony to the brutal involvement of the Court of Justice in the work of the Constitutional Court. Today, when orange terminators, together with the President, understand that there are no legal rules for the early termination of the Supreme Council's powers, when no impartial and unfeared court can pass a legal decision on their behalf, they may resort to the most impure provocations, even the organization of an attack on the highlanders, and their drafters to the Constitutional Court. That's what I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u17	Thank you. Baburin has a word. Marmazov? Baburin's place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u18	Dear colleagues! As is known yesterday, five judges of the Constitutional Court refused to take part in a case concerning the conformity of the Ukrainian Constitution with the Presidential Decree on the early termination of the Supreme Council's powers under the pretext of pressure from individual political forces. The relevant statement was made public at a press conference in Kiev. In addition, the judges demanded that they be protected by the State. Besides, the arguments that these judges are making, well, they're just not serious, to say the least. Thus, Judge Shishkin states: “The pressure on him personally is expressed that there are demonstrations in support of the Supreme Council not far from the Constitutional Court building and all over Kiev. The Supreme Council of Ukraine itself discusses the possibility of listening to the official telephones of the judges of the Constitutional Court.” Furthermore, he was not satisfied with the fact that the Prime Minister had openly stated that the President of the Constitutional Court was under pressure from the pro-President political forces. For that reason, he had to apply for his resignation from the post of President of the Court. Well, such arguments are as convincing for all healthy and honest people as the text of the President's decree of 2 April of this year on the grounds for the dissolution of Parliament. It is clear that the insidiousness of its arguments prevented the authors from making formal representations to the public prosecutor's office requiring criminal proceedings under the Criminal Code. Although they did not forget to ask for public protection. Such a demarcation was immediately followed by the action agreed upon in the President's secretariat. The representative of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court, Vladimir Shapoval, stated that the decision of the Constitutional Court concerning the decree of the Head of State on the dissolution of the Supreme Council would be purely political. According to Shapoval, this is because the judges are no longer capable of anything else. And it's not because they're bad or they're going to say doubtful quality, but because they're in this environment where they can't make a legal decision. Allow me to ask these judges and representatives of the President. And in 2004, when the Supreme Council was blocked, when all the streets and not just the streets, the corridors of the Supreme Council were killed, and when they arrived. In fact, the heads of state from Ukraine did not leave and dictate what to do, and what decision did the Supreme Court then take, do you remember the third round? Is it possible to ask these judges: are they going to keep their oath? Well, we've chosen the Supreme. Why did we choose the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u19	Wait a minute, give us a chance to let Eugene Vasilovich understand what he's saying.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u20	The judges get a huge salary, they have gifts, they have personal cars, and when it comes to making decisions, some of them like rabbits in bushes. Well, at least write a statement, it'll be fairer. We are therefore convinced that most of the judges of our Constitutional Court will remain faithful to this oath, honestly, by law will carry out their duty to the Constitutional Court, will make a fateful decision for Ukraine, whether constitutional or not, the President's decree of dissolution of the Supreme Council. Moreover, it is not only the Supreme Council that awaits the people of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u21	Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Matthew Valentin Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u22	Matthew, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues! Respectable citizens! More and more political opposition caused by the unconstitutional Presidential Decree on the timely cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, as confirmed by the mass of appeals these days to the Central Committee of the Company of Ukraine, its parliamentary faction, has raised growing concerns among many of our fellow countrymen. To achieve the rematching goals, the returns lost as a result of the constitutional reform of the President's authority, the removal of his dear friends from power, the political orange adventurers, it looks like, and we're getting more and more at it, and we're ready for everything today. The last days have confirmed with renewed force that the President's decree, although developed by means and script from the ocean of his friends in the United States, looks like a gesture of despair. In order to carry out his purposes, Yushchenko is cynically using even the shrine of Orthodoxy, the sanctuary of the world culture, the Council of Sofia. Who can defuse this acute situation? Only the Constitutional Court can cut down this proud peer. That's why the pressure on him, I mean the trial, is happening today, it's a crime. It may be different, this pressure, and it may be applied differently, including by a scenario that has now begun to be carried out in orange, which, with the mouths of all the Kirilians and others, launched an attack on the still unknown decision of the Constitutional Court, stating that if the President's decree was declared unconstitutional the court would be illegal, no one would be recognized as to accept the appearance under pressure. What cynicism! They're pushing and shouting, "Hold the thief!" And there's their real face. Therefore, not everyone who is not involved today will not deny the fact that Yushchenko and his orange “loving friends” have become a symbol of the division of Ukraine. Wisely, in paws, the policy pursued by this team, externally and internally, nationalally, linguistically and religiously, led to a clear division of society, put the state at the brink of destruction. And at the same time, we will stand, we are sure, the only legislative body is the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u23	Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u24	Dignified guests, our neighbors are good, respectable citizens of Ukraine! Like all my colleagues, every day we receive hundreds of letters, appeals, where our people convey their concerns, their concerns about the situation in the country. People are asking us, the Ukrainian national deputies, to stop the lies, the filth sown all over the earth, as our wise people Timoshenko Yulu, Lucenka, and Kirilenko rightly called. Let the people of Ukraine know that in this way they are sweeping away their crimes by the so - called opposition. Julia Volodymyrna, return 7.6 billion dollars to the people of Ukraine. Mr. Lucenko! Explain to the people why you have created more than 700 business structures using your high position and status as a civil servant. You're defending your interests. History will not forgive you the disunity of Ukraine, the disunity of our society. Today, hundreds of thousands of our compatriots from Herson, Crimea, from Johno-Frankovsky, Lviv, Lugansk, Sum are gathered at the Maidan. They stood up for the Constitution, for the national interests of our Ukraine, for the land of their own, for the children, for their families. Mr. President, do not divide the people into your "loving friends" who are close to you and to strangers – those who do not share your anti-constitutional actions. We are all the people of Ukraine, we are with a great story, so please go out to Midan today, look into the eyes of the laborers that you have taken away from urgent questions, from your families, from your homes and tell them why you did it. Why did you spoil democracy in Ukraine? Why did you squander the choice of the people of Ukraine? People expect an explanation from you because it's impossible to gather so-called opponents in the President's Office. Go out on the main course of Ukraine and tell us honestly why you issued a criminal order. Why did you ruin all of Ukraine? Why are you deliberately tearing apart Ukraine, which has fought for its lands for centuries for the unification of its lands? It's good to get out, and it's fair to say that if you're sure you're right. But that's not going to happen. But I think that the main verdict will not be the Constitutional Court, but will be handed down by those people who are in pain for our land and for our future.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u25	Freeman, please. You will? Vladimir Mikhajlovich Platinum instead of Slobodanuk Then Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u26	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues are MPs, journalists! Dear colleagues, the official delegation of the Lord of Russia! I welcome you people who are consistent in their policies. I recall that a joint meeting of the two committees on economic policy of the State of Russia and the Supreme Council of Ukraine was held three weeks ago, before the decree. And the decree did not stop our relationship. Thank you for being here today, by our side. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, I would like to remind all branches of the Ukrainian authorities that the first quarter has ended, which can be summed up. The growth rate in Ukraine is one of the best in the world. In the world, I'm not wrong. And I want this to be heard by the President's Secretariat, and by Viktor Andreevich himself as an economist. In the world! And to talk about the economic crisis today in this growth in industrial production, economic indicators are absurd, in a mild sense. Today, we, those who continue to work in law under the Constitution, are the majority of three factions and 23 deputies who support the majority and take part in the work every day in the Supreme Council Hall, and I want to remind you that this is every nineth of the opposition, the total of 129 botovs and 82 of our Ukrainians. 24 are every nine members of the Supreme Council. Think about it! This is not the only one who is wrong and ready to change his mind, 24 people. They're in the hall today. I want to say that all these people are deeply excited about what's going on. There will therefore be an expanded meeting tomorrow at 2.30 p.m. of the Committee on Economic Policy of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, to which the First Deputy Prime Minister of Azarov, Deputy Prime Minister of Tobacco, a number of ministers, Presidents of the State Committees, all scientific leaders of the institutions of the country, the public and the trade union. I invite the members of the secretariat to hear their thoughts, if any, economically on what is going on, I invite members of the committee from the opposition factions to exchange views. Tomorrow, the country will hear what the economy is like in the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u27	Thank you. The word has Popescu Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u28	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Distinguished colleagues, noble Ukrainian people and citizens of all nationalities, Christ Voscres! Instead of being with our families now, with our sick parents, instead of preparing for the sower and working to improve our lives, we are forced to defend our Constitution, our rights to freedom from attacks by political adventurers. Dear colleagues, the decree to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council, which is not based on the 90th article of the Constitution, cannot be the basis for successive elections and the dissolution of the Supreme Council, because it is not constitutional. The pressure from the President's supporters to the Constitutional Court has already led to the declaration of a postponement of the debate on the unconstitutionality of the decree to a later date. At the same time, destructive forces in an effort to destabilize the country are spreading hearings and myths. I want to develop some of them. The first myth is that the adventurous elections will bring about a victory in oranges, because sociology proves that the support of the Party of Regions and Coalitions in society is supported by most citizens of our country. The second myth is that although the State budget does not provide for this, the elections can be held at the expense of local budgets. But this is explicitly forbidden by law, and we warn all those who will allocate funds without approving changes to the State budget, that they fall under criminal responsibility. The third myth. That after the anticonstitutional decree, the Supreme Council is invalid and has no authority. This is even more political hypocrisy. Since all international organizations recognize the authority of the Supreme Council, an example of this is the participation of the 16-20 April delegation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the next session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Vice Speaker of the European Parliament, Marek Soviets, is officially meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council today. That's it. The fourth myth. That Victor Yushchenko is a Democrat. But let's mention the recording, according to his instructions, of the Ambassador of Ukraine in Austria, that there were legitimate reasons for opening visas for opposition representatives to one of the Central Asian countries whose regime is called unconstitutional by the political supporters of the President of Ukraine. Examples such as these can be cited in countless ways. But what is the solution today? For the President of Ukraine, to abolish the unconstitutional decree. But we do realize that he will not be given this by adventurers from his surroundings. Then for all of us, the only way out is to wait for a just decision of the Constitutional Court and not give in to any kind of provocation. If one drop of blood spills out, it will be on Victor Andriovich Yashchenka’s conscience. He will not be spared on this earth, nor will he be spared. We are confident that Ukraine will be the only democratic, rule of law, and the law and law will prevail. And as a believer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u29	Give him 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u30	And, as a believer, I'm sure of it, because Christ rises.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u31	Thank you. [[Applause]] On the fourth day, remember, we were told earlier. Yes. Please, from Our Ukraine, Gnatenko insists on brief information on the negotiations yesterday with the Ministry of Defense. Please. Lev Mikolaiovich Gnatenko, Lieutenant General. I'm the one who explains it to Catherine Seed because she always looks at the military like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u32	Respectable people's deputies, respected television and radio audiences, respected media representatives! Following our visit to the Special Intelligence Unit of the Ministry of Defence, which was unlawfully brought into combat readiness with the extradition of military ordnance, the National Deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on defence and security: Gnatenko, Antipov, Bulba and Kalashnikov initiated a meeting with the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of Ukraine on 10 April. Three issues were discussed. First, the constitutional framework for the activities of the armed forces. The second is the improvement of the conditions for mutual awareness of the day-to-day activities of members of the armed forces to agree on plans for civilian democratic control over the activities of the army. I can report to the public that, despite a number of contradictions in the assessment of actions, the provisions of the Constitution, the laws of Ukraine, through the active activities of the members of the Supreme Council, we have been able to meet the main challenge of obtaining guarantees from the Minister of Defence of Griesenka and the Chief of General Staff of Kirichenko on the non-interference of the armed forces in the process of confrontation between the conflicting political forces. Mothers and families of soldiers can sleep peacefully. As members of the Supreme Council, we will continue to monitor the implementation of agreements and safeguards, which will not allow the army and other armed groups to be drawn into internal conflicts and divisions. Today we want to visit the assault squad in the city of Žitomir. Part two of my statement. Only the lazy one did not mention the problems of our army, the social protection of the soldiers and their families. This is also combat readiness, aging technology and weapons, disposal of ammunition. More than 60,000 families of soldiers have been waiting for housing for more than 10 years. The social security laws of the military and the veterans of the army, other forces, are not fully implemented. For everyone, money is needed and an efficient economy is needed. In 2007, for the first time in years, the government of Viktor Yanuković took serious steps to meet the army. As a result of the first quarter, the general budget of the Ministry of Defence was increased. This increase gives the Minister of Defence the right to award and compensate for his official salary, which significantly improves his level of cash satisfaction. There has been a tenfold increase in military readiness and weapons costs: 52 million -- the Timoshenko government, 161 -- the Yehanurov government, 900 million -- the Yanukovic government. The recommendations of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on housing of military personnel are being implemented. A number of other problems are being addressed. The country and the army have embarked on the path of development. I appeal to Victor Andreevich Yushchenko as the Supreme Commander and President of Ukraine, if the country is embarked on a new electoral campaign, the economy and, together with her, the army and its programmes will be thrown back. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion, more faithfully, of the MPs' initiative on the issues that concern them most today, because they are not just concerned about society. And it is natural that everyone touched on the subject of the President’s decree of April 2. Clearly, it's sad for everyone, obviously, when we communicate with the President's Institute in this way. That shouldn't have been the case. And we understand perfectly that this does not add authority to the state and to the representatives of these institutions of power, and to the deputies, and to the President, and to the Cabinet of Ministers, because people see us as the only authority. And we have to make sure of that. One of the benefits of this debate that is taking place today in society -- that people are starting to read the Constitution, people are starting to get acquainted with the law, with their rights and responsibilities, and they are assessing what is going on. And more and more people are convinced, the President's decree is unconstitutional, illegal. And they're starting to read, including the 19th and other articles of the Constitution, which predicts that you can't do something that doesn't fit the law and the Basic Law, that is, the Constitution of Ukraine. This is beneficial, and knowledge is needed. It is also clear that today’s situation has a negative impact on the economy and not just on the economy. As the Head of the State Property Fund said, our stocks dropped 12 times in a matter of days. These are direct damage to the state. We should not forget this, we should make things right. Today, many spoke, commenting on a press conference last night by five judges of the Constitutional Court. We don't have to have any discussion with the judges so that it doesn't take pressure on them, but on the other hand, we have to evaluate what's going on. Participation in press conferences and the political activities of judges in the Constitutional Court Act is not foreseen, more specifically, is prohibited. Judges have no right to evaluate the law of any act, including the President's decree. The court must give, but not individual judges. And we're hearing at yesterday's press conference that this happened. On the contrary, the judges, in their commitment not to participate in the meeting, seeking protection, and apparently already obliged to participate in the meeting, assess the constitutionality of the President’s decree and the unconstitutionality of the Supreme Council’s decision. It's not just arbitrary interpretation of the law, it's a direct violation of the Constitutional Court Act. And we need to know this, we need to give a proper assessment and orientation for people. We hear rumors from a former Constitutional Court judge who today is the President's legal adviser, Whispering that, you see, the court will make political decisions. Where'd he get it, I'd like to know? The Constitutional Court Act itself defines the function of a court as the obligation to rule on the conformity of the Constitution of legal acts. And it's not all political evaluations. And we hope that these estimates will be exactly as defined in the basic law. Why are we convinced that the Constitutional Court's decision will be legal and will meet with the Supreme Council's assessment of the President's decree? Yes, because the decree was issued on the basis of interpretations in the 90th article without reference to this article, because there is no basis for a permanent suspension of parliamentary powers. Parliament works as it works on the basis of the Constitution, the Rules of the Supreme Council, which is also a reference in the Constitution in the same 90th article, the 83rd, in other articles of the Constitution. So we have the right to speak, we have the right to say that this decree is unconstitutional, and it is illegal in Ukraine. But, in fact, if a person carries out an early election, it is not possible to implement it under the law in a term that is foreseen for another situation in the 90th article, and everyone understands that. That is why this situation should be taken into account. I don't mention just what's wrong, I don't want to use any harsh words, because it's about Parliament's rostrum, it's about the legislature's microphone, but speaking to the President's apparatus today, and talking about Parliament's not working, dissolved and so on, it's the tip of cynicism and that, you know, legal illiteracy, and that's when a person who really has basic training, like a diplomat, has general legal training. You can't do that. People good, you want to look, you read the Constitution, you use the norms, the principles of the rule of law, which presupposes, first, the continuity of power. Parliament will work until the new Parliament is sworn in. I am sure that this will happen at the age of 11, but not today or any other way, because otherwise we will turn the political situation in Ukraine into a thorough electoral process, and we will turn the state into, I'm sorry, a threat to the former Yugoslavia. You can't let that happen. We are the people responsible, we must not let that happen. I hope the President, too, believes he's just as concerned about the situation. And we understand very well that both our colleagues and observers, and those who are monitoring from the European institutions in Ukraine, are well aware of the fact that we are in the politics that are in power today in Ukraine. And we need to find this compromise. But one thing is absolutely certain, we should and can only find compromise on the basis of the Constitution, and there are no other options. If anyone tries to look for a policy, build some kind of political structure, there will be no good for the state. Only the Constitution is at the heart of all compromises. We stand there and stand there, and this line is sure to be realized because it is true because it comes out of the interests of the State and every person who lives in our home. Thank you. [[Applause]] The question is considered, Registration Nos. 1065 and 2691, a draft Law on a single system of assembly and the calculation of public social security contributions. As reported by Ludmila Kirichenko, a national MP and Basil Hara. Then the Minister of Labour, I'm sorry, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Galicia Georgi Kostinović is invited to the rostrum to report on the substance of the document.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies of Ukraine! A government bill on the system of assembly and the calculation of the only social contribution to the general government social insurance is brought to your attention. The bill provides, first, for the consolidation of the authorized body, which defines the Pension Fund, which is similar to all social insurance funds, namely: collection of insurance premiums, accounting of insurers, acceptance of reports, control of the fullness and timeliness of payment, collection of debt from payment. The other one. The introduction of a single basis for the collection of premiums, the maintenance of the same reporting period of the same reporting form, the only social insurance register. Third. The introduction in Ukraine of a single social contribution to social insurance, which will be paid by one payment commission. The main objective of the single system of collection, calculation and control of insurance contributions is to create conditions for the growth of the aggregate contribution base, to increase the level of coverage of all categories of persons subject to social insurance, i.e. to increase the level of income of the cost to all insurance funds at the expense of better control. The only social contribution will be for all social insurance funds and be the same for employers and individuals. The bill proposes that the amount of the sole social contribution, according to employers and insured persons, and the proportion of its distribution between types of social insurance resulting from actuarial accounts, should be established by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. When determining the size of a single social contribution, the costs of existing types of social insurance distributed among the funds concerned are taken into account. In addition, the bill is defined. the specific characteristics of payment of the sole social contribution to the natural persons of entrepreneurs who have chosen a special simplified system of taxation. Since the amount of the premium paid will depend on the size of the insurance payments, such payers are entitled to determine for themselves the amount of income to be paid by the sole social contribution. A contribution will be made to special accounts that will be codified by payers, depending on the occupational risk class of production and the specific characteristics of the payment on individual payers. The split of the only social contribution in automated mode will be carried out by the State Treasury and the next day the funds will come to centralised social insurance funds. Of the accounts opened at the State Treasury, only transactions can be made to recalculate the insurance costs of the funds, in accordance with statutory proportions and the return of the wrongly paid sums of the only social contribution and fines. In doing so, the possibility of the Pension Fund being involved in the distribution of the sums of the only social contribution is excluded. The bill provides for the maintenance of the calculation of differentiated insurance tariffs for insurance against accidents in production and occupational diseases. The classification of activities into occupational risk classes will remain outside the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The bill eliminates employers from insurance payments on the basis of insurance contributions to so - called mutual interests. Under this arrangement, financial security will be strengthened to monitor the use of funds from the temporary loss of employment and the fund from industrial accidents. Payments from the fund’s temporary loss of employability to the implementation of monthly personalized reporting will be made by businesses, as today. The project provides that the fund should, within a period of five days, recalculate the employer’s costs according to his application. The bill will, firstly, allow more rational use of social insurance costs to avoid duplication of insurance-related functions; second, ensure full transparency of financial flows for public social insurance entities; third, enable insured persons to receive information about their contributions to the employer at any time; and fifth, to reorient the functions and structures of social insurance funds to work with insured persons and to provide preventive measures; and sixth, to introduce compulsory public social health insurance without increasing the burden on the pay-for-work fund. It's too bad that yesterday, in the order of the Supreme Council, there were bills for the introduction of state health insurance, and in our opinion, it would be good if they were considered and adopted together with the Single Social Contribution Act. Then we would be able to complete the reform of the social insurance system in Ukraine more fully. With the adoption of the bill you have proposed, a social insurance system is being maintained in our country, i.e. the social financing principle, the separation of the State Budget and the social insurance budget, the administration of the funds on the parity basis by the representatives of those parties that generate funds, i.e. employers, trade unions and states. Secondly, all existing insurance funds remain, and their main functions remain behind the funds: management and management of individual types of social insurance, accumulation of insurance contributions, control of the use of funds, financing of social insurance payments and other functions in accordance with the Fund's statutes and relevant laws. And thirdly, there is a procedure for determining the amount of insurance contributions in agreement with the social partners. Proposals for the sole social contribution as well as the proportion of its distribution by type of social insurance will be made by the Office of the Ministers of Ukraine on the basis of actuarial commercial accounts of the funds and according to the employers' organizations. The bill received a positive conclusion from the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Committee of the Supreme Council of Social Policy and Labour, and other committees of Parliament with the proposal to accept it as a basis. The comments made by interested bodies to the specific provisions of the bill will be processed and taken into account in the second reading by the working group, which will include representatives of the Ministry of Labour and the principle of agreement with the Committee of Social Policy and work on this subject. Please support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u35	Is there a question for the reporter? No, sit down, please. Take a look at this. It was, wasn't it? Aah! Then sign up, please. Six. Ten minutes. Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u36	Please pass the word to Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u37	Thank you, Valentin Grigorovich. Dear reporter! Well, the problem, in fact, that we're trying to resolve through this bill, is known. Moreover, it is “with a beard”, as they say. We tried to approach her several times from different points of view, including the creation of a separate additional fund to manage and administer all these contributions. But I think that this project is taking a step forward in solving this problem: both in the MP project and in the government project, there are positive effects. But please tell me, from your point of view, I, in fact, find it unrealistic to adopt and implement this law from July 1st, because the problem is not easy and requires very serious processing, including with the committee's opinions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u38	Thank you for asking, Your Honor, Peter Stepanovich. I'll start at the end. Of course, the date in the project – July 1, 2007 – is an unrealistic date. I've already mentioned in my statement that the best thing to do is to introduce a single social contribution law. Along with the Law on Medical Social Insurance and the introduction of the cumulative level of the pension system and the most optimal, in our view, time would be the first of January 2009. Because the law you're proposing is methodological. I was talking about the size of the only social contribution, the proportions of the distribution and so on, obviously, the individual laws that will be adopted according to the procedure. Prior to the introduction of this government bill, three bills were registered by the honourable national deputies, Mrs. Kirichenko, who is now announced, Jaroslav Suhogo and Vitali Homutinnik. And the government bill that you are considering today contains proposals from these bills that began to be drafted in 2003. And in our view, the proposed project took into account the positions that were in the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u39	Thank you. Stoyan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u40	The honourable report is certainly an attempt to put into the single system of the congregation and to account for contributions to the mandatory public social insurance is very good, because today we know that these contributions have been distributed through four funds. And what I'm saying is, this is going to make it possible to get a job right. But I have two questions for you. First question. As a result of such a compendium, is there an increase in the level of contributions from natural persons? That's the first question. And the second. In the conclusion given by the Science and Experimental Authority, they say that in this law that you're proposing, 2691, and we're going to support it, it's a government bill, it's supposed that they're not going to pay now, they're going to give social protection up to three years at the birth of a child. This is paid to the government as a ransom. I don't think that's right. Why? Because social insurance, when a person is in fear, should not only insure himself but also at the birth of a child. These should be a solidarity of reckonings, of reckonings by people and by government. Are you really removing the social protection of citizens from this law at the expense of public compulsory social insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u41	Thank you for asking, Your Honor Alexander Mikolayovich. The fact is that the proposed law does not determine the size of the insurance premiums and their distribution between the employer and the natural person. But its adoption, if we're not talking about the introduction of the last kind of social insurance provided by the basics of Ukrainian legislation on social insurance, i.e. the introduction of health insurance, then, let's say, the only social contribution is payment. But we're not talking today about differentiation or changing the size of the insurance premium. If you go to your next question about the child's birth payments, after taking care of it for up to 3 years, today's Ukrainian State Budget 2007 these programs are defined as non-insurance programmes and they are financed, not by the Fund's temporary loss of employment, but by government programmes funded by the Ukrainian State Budget. In our view, your decision was right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u42	Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u43	Jaroslav Suhi, Zaporozhye Dear colleagues, I would like to address those who are listening to our report today, especially those who have been crying so much that we are not doing the universal. We have, by the way, embarked on the implementation of paragraph 19 of the Universal Declaration on making a commitment by a coalition government — the adoption of a single social contribution bill. And Georgi Kostinović here could say more about the only social contribution is one of the components of the more complex process of improving Ukrainian tax legislation in general, which was also mentioned in this paragraph of 19 of the Universal. Those who smear orange saps today may not have read it themselves, but they do not know, unlike us who stubbornly persist in implementing it. Georgi Kostinovich, that's a question. Please tell me, will the government be able to harmonise the following sole social contribution to that bill that you just mentioned, the bill on the introduction of compulsory public social and health insurance as a separate type of social insurance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u44	Thank you for asking, Reverend Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Indeed, with regard to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy of Ukraine, the only position of the Universal of National Unity that we were concerned with is the drafting and passing of the relevant bill, which is before you today. The adoption at the same time, the introduction of the single social contribution law and the bill on health and social insurance, which you are the author of, Jaroslav Mikhajlovich, will allow us to either minimize or not increase the size of insurance payments at the expense of the economy's administration of the only social contribution, and thus we will be able to implement the entire set of necessary components of social insurance without increasing or significantly increasing the burden on the payroll fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u45	Please, Sergey Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u46	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Honorable Rapporteur! We have considered this bill in faction, and we have no doubt that we must take a step in this direction. In due course, we passed a law on lowering income tax, but we did not take a second step — to reduce wage burdens and virtually fail to achieve what we would like to achieve when we withdraw wages from the shadows. The main points are the transparency of the work of these funds. That's what's causing some complaints today. Their accounts, their fund-raising mechanisms. That's doubtful. And the second moment is the reduction of the tax press, what we're talking about today, to the producer. It is what will remove wages from the shadows today and create normal transparent conditions. But we understand that there are many nuances in this bill that require agreement on second reading. Round tables will be needed, producers will have to be happy, industry policy committees will have to be encouraged. We are therefore in favour of adopting it on first reading, but for cooperating in seriously finalizing the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u47	Thank you. In answer to your question, I fully agree with what you said. I am grateful to the committees that have considered the bill before this and have given it a positive assessment, provided that many specific things are further developed. We have a principle of agreement with the Committee on Social Policy and work on creating a working group involving representatives of trade unions and employers in order to properly polish all standards for second reading. As for the transparency of the work of social insurance funds with the introduction of this law, we believe it will increase significantly. Because, first of all, the money will go through, it will go through the State Treasury mechanism. And secondly, there's going to be a state social insurance register, which will be made up of insurers and insured people. These payments will be classified as in the Pension Fund system. And thus, each subject to whom this law will be extended will be able to obtain the fullest information about his or her condition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u48	Thank you. Gardens, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u49	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I fully support my fellow socialist, Matvienkov. And in keeping with his questions and thoughts, that is the question. As you think, we need to put together these four funds, which are, because really in these four funds in circulation, they're not in transparent circulation. How can we make the appropriate documentation available? Next. Nor can people always figure out which fund to go from one direction to another when appropriate help is needed. So we support the very idea that we need to work in this direction and that we will be supporting in the first reading, but with much further work. And to my question is, how do you look at the idea of uniting these funds to be the only one?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u50	Thank you for asking. The thing is, we have three unemployment insurance funds today, from temporary disability accidents with a budget for today's 10 billion dollars. And there's the Ukrainian Pension Fund with a budget of about 90 billion dollars, which is both management-based and payment-based, slightly different from the current social insurance funds, although the nature of these funds is largely one. We're talking about that the bill that's being proposed is making it much easier for insurers because they're going to pay one payment commission for the only social contribution. And, of course, frankly, the biggest dividends in this law, in our view, will be paid by employers themselves. Regarding the transparency of social insurance funds, this topic is endless enough. By the way, this week, Parliament's second reading is to consider one of the bills that enhances the transparency and transparency of the foundation's work. I hope you support this bill, and it will also work for a solution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u51	Thank you, sit down, please. From the Committee of Hara Vasil Grigorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u52	Dear colleagues! A few words about the history of this issue. The deputies of the last assembly remember that several bills have been considered in this room and no one has obtained the required number of votes, so they have not become law in our country because they were not prepared to submit to a law that will streamline the work of social insurance funds. What is proposed today is fundamentally different from those previously proposed bills. These bills took into account all the shortcomings expressed by the people's deputies and experts and committees, and could therefore be considered a mature bill today. Briefly, I'm going to talk about the Bill of the People's Deputy Kirichenko, No. 1065. The Committee considered it at its meeting in November 2006 and decided to recommend to the Supreme Council for further refinement, as there were significant shortcomings. However, the Committee proposes that all the good things that are in this bill be taken into account when finalizing the second reading of Government Bill No. 2691. Given that each of you has received such remarkable material, which clearly and beautifully spells out the advantages of this bill, I will briefly highlight the main points that the bill on a single social contribution is a good one proposed by the Cabinet of Ministers. First and foremost, I guess. By increasing the number of insurers and the Pension Fund, unlike the rest of the social insurance funds, it is the most complete, it has tens of thousands of insurers, it is possible to obtain additional contributions from some 600 million bracelets without an increase in the insurance fund. Second. The introduction of a single social tax will be another step, let alone a final step, but still a step, to bring wages out of the shadows. Third. Financial flows in the social insurance system will be fully transparent. It is not enough that the State's monitoring of activities has been strengthened. Secondly, there will be only one line of finance in all funds. Thirdly, reports of all financial funds will be published annually in the Voice of Ukraine, in the Government Courier and in other media, which will be for public discussion. Fourth. It will ensure that contributions are taken into account more effectively through personalization for all types of social insurance and will enable insured persons at any time to receive information on both their own and employers'contributions for them. Fifth. It will increase the liability of employers for the timely and full payment of insurance contributions. The sixth would simplify the calculation procedure: there would be only one payment to be made instead of four payments made by the employer at different times. This will make it easier to account for and report on the financials of social insurance funds. And the seventh will protect the insured in the bankruptcy of enterprises by paying all the social benefits. Unfortunately, this rule is not in force to date. The essence of the Cabinet of Ministers bill on a common social system for the collection and accounting of contributions to general government social insurance is to amend the framework of compulsory public social insurance, the relevant laws on social insurance funds, which we now have three, and specifically to the Pension Fund, as well as the Criminal Code, the Criminal Procedure Code, the Bankruptcy Act and other laws which are to some extent related to the social tax. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council supports the bill, has made a number of comments, the Ministry of Finance, social insurance funds, including the Pension Fund, the Ministry of Labour, the State Tax Inspectorate, the State Treasury, the National Bank, the Committees on Legal Policy, Pensioners and Veterans support the bill and each of them has made specific proposals. It also supports these proposals, the bill, and the Federation of Trade Unions of Ukraine, although it has made a number of observations and has warned that if they are not taken into account, it may harm the interests of insured persons. In this regard, I would like to say that the bill is indeed flawed, the notes of shortcomings are not global, not systemic, so they can be taken into account in the preparation for second reading. In this connection, the Committee on Social Policy and Labour proposes to adopt it, Cabinet of Ministers Bill No. 2691 on first reading. Please support the decision of the Committee of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u53	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Is there anyone who'd like to make a statement? Sign up. The factions first. And then everyone who wants to. Garden one, please. You're handing Bondarchuk over to Ivan Mikolaiovich from the Socialist faction. Please. He's being followed by Stoyan from the Party of Regions. 12 minutes to talk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u54	Dear colleagues! Dear radios and television sets! The Supreme Council of Ukraine, which continues to work and perform its duties on the basis of the Constitution, daily reviews dozens of bills and draft regulations that allow the community to improve, polish national legislation, and thus make it more effective. Even today, we are considering a very important bill aimed at strengthening the social protection of our fellow countrymen. It's my colleagues and the committee, because it's a committee. Because this bill was passed through our committee, which is a profile in its consideration, and our faction -- the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine -- is supporting it today in the first reading and is sending it to work on the fate of taking into account all the observations that have come and come from the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority that will come from the legislators. The rights of the legislative initiative and of other organizations, such as trade unions and so on. The deputy minister said that we had formed a working group to follow up on this law, led by Vasil Georgievovich Hara. And this group is already working. Round tables, other activities are envisaged. This bill will be considered and adopted at the same time and can be said in parallel with the Law on Social Dialogue in Ukraine, introduced by the President of Ukraine, which has already passed all the necessary stages of preparation. In the near future, it can be considered directly at the sessions of the Supreme Council and accepted. Of course, the effectiveness of our work could be higher if the MPs did not take part in the actions in which they took part, and secondly, if more representatives were involved in the meetings than the opposition factions would oppose us, and as a result of the decisions we make, they would be more balanced. I think that soon more of them will participate in the work of the session and the committees, first of all, those not included in the lists, the so-called lists, and who will have no moral obligation to their leaders. This bill will be finalized and will be considered in April-month in its final version. I would like only to tell my colleague, Mikola Iliju, that the committee finds it inappropriate to pool all the funds together because the purpose of these funds is lost. When we draw them together in one pile, we create, more loyally, a desire.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u55	Thank you. Stoyan Alexander Mikolaiovich is asking for words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u56	Respectable compatriots, respected TV sets, radio audiences! I want to draw your attention to the fact that Parliament has been operating normally for over a month now: no one breaks microphones, no one grabs the rostrum, no one beats, they work for the state, they work to fulfill the commitments that the political forces made when we went to the elections. I think we're still going to work this way, because the dissolution of Parliament is certainly not going to happen, because the President's decree, once again, I stress, is unconstitutional. It's about the law we're considering. I would certainly like to remind you that we are now implementing article 19 of the Universal National Unity, which was signed by the President and Prime Minister of Ukraine after the appointment of Viktor Fedorovich as Prime Minister. So we're following through on what we agreed was the president and the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u57	Alexander Mikolaiovich, and so did I.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u58	And Alexander Alexander the Moroz signed it, he joins what I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u59	And leaders of political parties.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u60	Alexander Aleksandrovich, add 30 seconds because you took it from me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u61	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u62	With regard to the bill, of course, honourable colleagues, today there are several funds, and these funds have their own directors, these funds have their own budgets. It's not bad, but when there's a single fund, in case there's an extravagant situation, you can use one fund to help another fund. That's why we need to support this bill. Another principle of position. See, it's proposed to take the function, it's very important, it's not a separate structure, it's not a new structure, it's a new one. a directorate, or an official structure, and make these commitments to the Pension Fund of Ukraine. But it certainly needs to be transformed according to legislation into a self - control organization. It's not supposed to be a state organization, it's supposed to be a self-governing organization. The next, of course, is the creation of this fund, the good thing that the reporter confirmed will not result in any additional workload on the salaries of employees or employers. The tariffs will remain the same, only the redistribution will take place. I don't quite agree with the reporter and the draft law that they want to take away the opportunity to pay for the birth of a child and to take care of a child under three years of age from that fund, just to transfer it to state funds. I think it's very expensive. When a person is insured, he is in fear of his life, he is in fear of his job, he is in danger of getting sick. And it insures the possibility of the Social Insurance Fund having a certain amount of money at the birth of a child. I think it should be a solid payment. And that's why I propose, on the second reading, that we consider the solidarity of the state budget in the payment of the welfare of a child from the Social Insurance Fund. But more, of course, at the expense of the state. Why? Because what they did to the orange and forced them to pay only from the Social Insurance Fund led to the fact that people did not recover, the New Year’s gift was not given, the children were not healed. It all went to $8 and a half thousand. You can't do that. So I support the bill and I ask to vote in favour of the government bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u63	Thank you for not taking advantage of the extra 30 seconds. And the word now comes from Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Please. He is followed by Suhi Jaroslav Mikhailovich, who will put a dot in our discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u64	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, distinguished voters. We're looking at a very important social-relevant bill in the session room today, and I'm stressing again, a socio-meaning bill. I hope that after, today, we will accept in the first reading, and in a short time, we will complete it and send it to the President for signature. And the president, who declares that he cares about social issues, will also sign the bill in a short time, and he will enter into life. As far as the bill is concerned. Bill 2691 provides for the introduction in Ukraine of a single system for collecting insurance contributions, their calculation and monitoring of the fullness, the timeliness of payment, and the only information system for taxpayers and insured persons. It is proposed to provide for consolidation in one body of similar functions for all the funds, namely: the establishment of a payer account, the formation and maintenance of a state social insurance register, which will include an information system on single social contribution payers and insured persons, the provision of single reporting, the exercise of full control and the timeliness of the single social contribution. The body that will perform the functions of forming insurance funds has been designated by the Pension Fund of Ukraine to convert it into a self - governing organization. In general, by supporting the project, I note that the proposal to exclude from the Ukrainian Law “On compulsory social insurance” in relation to the temporary loss of work and expenses caused by birth and burial, the payment of assistance at the birth of a child and the care of a child up to three years of age due to the lack of insurance of these benefits and their membership in public social guarantees is contrary to article 46 of the Constitution of Ukraine, under which the right of citizens to social protection is guaranteed by compulsory public social insurance on the basis of insurance contributions of citizens, businesses, institutions and organisations, and on the basis of budgetary and other sources of social security. I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading, in a very short time, to be finalized and sent to the President for signature. And I hope that the President, once again, stresses how concerned he is about social programming, will sign this bill and he will enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u65	Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u66	Dear colleagues, what is normal, even though the Supreme Council of Ukraine works intensely, no doubt sees society, sees our people, sees voters. That is why politicians, eternal complainants and plaxes, such as paralytics at a political crossroads, are becoming increasingly loathsome, according to John Frank, who made themselves such paralytics. You can't keep talking about how your soul hurts for a small Ukrainian, for a child, while stopping, blocking, and sabotaging the adoptions that are necessary for this very little Ukrainian lawmaker. I want to remind everyone once again that I asked the deputy minister, especially those who say that the Supreme Council is illegal, that it works by adopting some lobbyist laws. So, right now, you and I are adopting lobbyist law, because we are lobbying for the implementation of article 19 of the Universal National Unity. By the way, it's one, maybe it's not the only, or it's not the only article where we can really do something about it, make it happen, adopt laws. A lot of them are flattened tarts all over the floor, and it's clear who wants what from whom and who should blame us for breaking or breaking this wagon. It's not stopped by us, it's braked by the anti-national anti-counsel opposition and its obedient President, the adoption of the Tax Code, because this bill is an integral element of a more general process. I recently read a wonderful, fine interview with the head of the National Committee of the People’s Deputies of Ukraine about how he is in pain, how he is experiencing the adoption of the Tax Code as soon as possible. There's no one here, none of them. I can tell you, there's a tremendous benefit here. There's no dick, there's no plates, there's no danger of men's or electrics getting caught up in the toilet. That's one plus. And the second minus. In fact, they do not take part in the legislative provisions that they made. By the way, these aren't the only bills that are created in the coalition. And I would suggest, and our committee has made a decision, other bills for a single social contribution to withdraw. I propose that my colleague support the government bill in the first reading. Because it removes the most pressing issue that employers, business subjects, have asked us. Congregational issues, especially social security controls. Of course, the consolidation in one body will make these funds more transparent. Above all, the relevance is that after this bill, we can go forward with the adoption of a bill on mandatory public social insurance. Let's support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u67	Thank you. It seems that Jaroslav Mikhailovich’s argument was convincing. I ask that you prepare yourself to define how you feel about these bills, in view of the fact that all the speakers were convinced that the government bill was worthy of being adopted in the first reading and preparing it for the second reading. The same is true of the alternative project being removed from consideration. And since the proposals were based on Project 2691, I'm putting it to a vote for acceptance as a basis. There's a vote coming. [[11:25:50]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you for your activity. And I ask the committee to finalize this document, because, indeed, its adoption is long overdue. And it's making a sort of revolution in the organization of social protection. That's what I'm talking about. A word. More loyally, according to Bill No. 3043, the project on monetary regulation and monetary control in Ukraine. Voropeyev Yuri Mikolaiovich, Ukrainian national deputy, one of the authors, is a more faithful author of the bill. Then prepare Homutiniki Vitali Yuriovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u68	Draft Law 3043 was prepared by the copyright team, and I am one of the members of the team. The bill was prepared by Mr. Kolesnikov, Prasolov Igor Nikolaevich, Homutinnik Vitali Jurievich and me. Why was this law necessary? Currently, all currency transactions in Ukraine are regulated by the Cabinet of Ministers Decree, which was adopted on 19 February 1993. The decree was prepared at the end of 1992. As you all remember, it was a difficult time. In fact, Ukraine's currency market did not exist, it was only created. During this time, very large changes have taken place, and the currency market in Ukraine is not actually regulated by this decree, but is regulated by a mass of instructions and regulations approved by the National Bank of Ukraine. Of course, when one is regulated. The whole industry, some direction of the activities of the people's economy by instructions or the provisions of any Ministry or National Bank of Ukraine, as in this case, is a large field for the activities of the public official, both on the one hand and on the other. That's the first one. The second requirement of this law is as follows. FATF recommendations were adopted. The current Ukrainian legislation is largely in line with the recommendations of FATF and, above all, the 19th and 22nd recommendations. What is the point of this law? First. Nothing revolutionary, as many have said from our opposition, is the law in force in the Ukrainian currency legislation. Everything here in this law is simply systematized, existing rules, existing mechanisms for regulating Ukraine's foreign exchange market in a single instrument already in the form of a law. And, of course, this law says that it is gathered here, that it is settled here, that it is regulated now and for the future only by the laws of Ukraine, not by the instructions of the National Bank of Ukraine or by the provisions. In particular, this law provides, without change, for any currency operation in Ukraine, nothing changes; it is all concentrated here in one place. Second. Any foreign exchange transactions in Ukraine. Everything remains unchanged. Any transactions with bank metals remain unchanged. Any transactions of banks authorized by banks in Ukraine under the General Licenses remain unchanged. What's changing. The opening of accounts abroad, as legal entities, is changing. In particular, the Jurliczo continues to have an individual license from the National Bank to open accounts abroad, although I believe that this rule is necessary only for a transitional period, but the Jurlic will have to notify the tax authority of the opening of such an account abroad. Fizzlitz. If a fissco opens an account abroad in a foreign bank and that bank is located in the territory of a country that is a member of the FATF or an organization of economic cooperation and development, then a fissco opens such an account without any restrictions, without any licences, but with subsequent notification during the month, the tax authority of Ukraine will open such an account to account for such an account. If this account opens a fissco in a country that is not a member of the FATF, note that it is not included in the FATF blacklist and is simply not a member of the FATF, then such a fissco will again open an account abroad without the National Bank's individual licence, but with a prior notification of the tax authority of Ukraine in the form that the tax authority determines. Moving the currency across the border. The current order of movement of the currency across the border is not in line with the FATF recommendations. There are 19 recommendations, there are 22 recommendations that say that the movement of currencies must be free, but with the mandatory notification of the competent authorities of the State. The current law states: displacement of up to 10,000 people. Euros are possible without any declaration, movement of more than 10,000 Euros. Euros with mandatory declaration, with mandatory notification by Customs authorities. Any relationship between the customs authority, the National Bank of Ukraine, and the tax administration determine for themselves and all of this is registered with the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Therefore, the relationship and the timely notification of public authorities to each other is their right, which is their duty, including. But the main thing is that this law removes individual licensing for external economic transactions, it gives additional tools, mechanisms to the National Bank in the form of special accounts, such as capital investment licensing. But all this is done by the National Bank only if it sees that Ukraine's negative balance of payments. In this case, he publishes in the press, either in the Voice of Ukraine or in the Government Courier, that the National Bank believes that individual regimes should be introduced, either licensing or operation through special accounts or mandatory sales. But such an introduction can only be made after publication and for a period of not more than six months. The main opponents, he three times, the amended law, the main opponent was the National Bank of Ukraine and the Economics. What do they want? They would like to return the opportunity to issue individual licences for each lawyer or physicist separately. This is where he got a lawyer for an individual license to buy shares, for example Microsoft. He'll see. He'll give it to him. He won't give it to him. And he came to see the National Bank, for example, with a license to buy shares there from a Russian company, he wouldn't give it to the National Bank. Why? God knows him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u69	Now how? As they are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u70	Now. The National Bank continued to object to the law, the Committee's working groups held countless times, but the Committee eventually voted in favour of the bill by a majority vote if I remember not to change, but a representative of the Committee would say so, with two opponents and 13 in favour. The bill is not perfect. I am not saying that it is ideal, but it allows us to move forward in terms of the liberalization of monetary legislation and the possibility of adapting Ukraine to the external economic market. It allows Ukrainian enterprises, Ukrainian citizens to operate freely on Ukrainian stock markets. It's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... In particular, the law indicates that the National Bank, by introducing some individual licensing of portfolio investment relations, i.e. purchases abroad of shares of any foreign company, does not have the right to restrict the purchase operations of lawyers, whether they are the physicists of shares of companies that are listed on the London Stock Exchange, the New York Exchange, the Russian Exchange, the Frankfurt Exchange. Or on the system. From my point of view and from the point of view of the entire copyright community, this bill is the first step, the first step towards the future conversion of the bracelet. If we want the country's economy to develop if we want it to. Ukrainians had the opportunity. Our well-being, then we must support this bill. From my point of view. If there's any questions for me, I'm ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u71	Thank you. Thank you, I'd like to know before you ask the reporter a question. Obviously I have a right to say it, Yuri Mikhailovich is not the first law to report here, but I did notice that today is a purely professional conversation with a convincing argument. This, by the way, is the answer not only to the substance of this law but also to those wrongdoers who say: “People can’t do that, they don’t know, they are not professionally considering a question. “ I don’t know Someone who's doubtful will ask a question to the reporter right now. I think he'll get the answer. This is not about us adopting the same law. Perhaps the discussion will lead to another result, but the fact that this is a professional discussion is obviously no doubt. Thank you, Yuri Mikhailovich, as a reporter. But if you are asked a question, write it down. Lisov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u72	Dear Yuri Mikolaiovich, please tell us how the introduction of the mandatory sale of foreign currency by residents in Ukraine’s currency market is in line with the rules of the current Ukrainian legislation, such as the Constitution, the Civil and Economic Codes of Ukraine, which guarantee the integrity of property rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u73	This law, as I told you, does not make any changes to the current order, including the Code of Gradjan, the Constitution of Ukraine, which regulates the movement of the currency within the country. For example, I want to give you an example like this. The Ukrainian Civil Code now states that any information on the movement of money in the account of any entity, national or legal person may be obtained only on the basis of a court decision. Information on the availability of the account and the balances in the accounts is available not only on the basis of a court decision but on a formal request. This is an article I believe is the 62nd Banking and Banking Act. And when the Ukrainian State Department for Financial Monitoring and Minfin Ukraine told me that it was necessary to allow the competent authorities of Ukraine to receive information on the movement of money in an account without a court decision, I said that it was wrong, it violated the civil code of Ukraine. Therefore, once again, I say that the existing rules that are now laid down in this law are fully consistent with the Banking and Banking Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u74	Thank you. Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u75	Thank you. The Communist faction, Zybenko. Dear colleagues, I have no questions. I'm the only one who wants to thank the authors for trying to bring this field of activity into line, which is the legislative arrangement. Because we have certain areas of activity where decisions are made only by law. I am absolutely convinced that the monetary financial sector should be that kind of activity. And I can see, sometimes, when we say, some structures that are preparing regulations, whether it's instructions, or clarifications, and so on, that they're denying today's adoption of this document. I can see that, because it's clear that they're taking away the weight that could have affected this situation. The Communist faction supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u76	It's just thinking. We'll use Peter Stepanovich as your performance, okay? The miller, the questions. Peter Vasilovich. Peter Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u77	Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Dear Yuri Mikolaiovich, do you not think that such rapid liberalisation in the area of monetary relations will lead to baseless lending of foreign economies from Ukraine, contribute to the flow of monetary values outside Ukraine, and also negatively affect the balance of payments? And considering that, for the time being, the main tool in the outflow of capital outside Ukraine is to deal with securities transactions, first of all, we need to deal with the circulation of securities by adopting a number of legislative acts to make contracts with securities solely on organised markets, I mean stock markets, and the formation of the only market prices depending on their real value and liquidity.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u78	Well, I think you understand the question? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u79	Yes, of course. Look, this law deprives the National Bank of the right to issue individual licences to specific currency market entities, but we give the National Bank the opportunity to introduce special accounts in the event of a negative balance of payments, as you say. Introduce individual capital investment licenses, there is a full list of capital investments in the law. Introduce a mandatory sale. She's not here right now, you know. Introduce an additional reserve for external economic contracts of 10 per cent. Moreover, the law gives the National Bank the right to limit to 14 days the possibility of carrying out currency transactions. In the event of a crisis. The National Bank says that's all, I don't care. I wonder what you're saying. This is an individual license that I issue at the request of a particular person, a particular legal person. I mean, I'm on my way to the bus station, I'm on my way to the DMV. They've been watching for 15 days: giving consent, not giving consent, you're beautiful, or you're not beautiful. Then he goes to the National Bank.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u80	Peter Volodymyrovich understood. Okay. Bulba Stepanovich. Rather, Baranowski asks questions instead of Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u81	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear reporter. Earlier in Ukraine, hops, sugar, were often called currency. So the raw material that was sold abroad was only carrying currency. Today, I think it's that kind of currency of metal, oil crops, even grain. Please tell me one of the questions. Or does this law provide any guarantee in that respect, because of the price difference in this export group of goods, the main profit, that is, our currency stays abroad, and it's completely uncontrolled, just like the currency through offshore zones and so on. That's one of the questions. All we have is those on the border that's 100 dollars left over, and they're taking it out. And here it's all in the free room. And one more thing. Mandatory currency sale. If it's my currency or yours, who I have the right to take my private property by law to sell it somewhere. And one more thing. Because of the President's anti-constitutional decree, the price of our securities fell by 12 percent. Is that the law?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u82	Can this law affect this situation? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u83	The previous colleague mentioned that our colleague was saying that, rather than early, we were introducing all of this? We're late for all of this. We're late liberalizing our currency market. In order to move currencies abroad, it is not necessary, as it were, to allow the National Bank or authorized banks or customs to do so. You take a plastic card, you put an ATM overseas, and you take a certain amount of money every day without any problems, but you do it in secret, it works, and you can't officially declare it. That's wrong, I think. For external economic contracts. The law says that the old mechanism, which is now here, however, should come to Ukraine no later than 90 days, is now written, the law says 365 days. To be honest, I tend to put a plank somewhere about 180 days, as was done in Russia. This is even for convenience of calculation between Russian companies and Ukrainian companies. It's about. I haven't written down your question yet. Currency sales. The law does not propose to do so now, urgently and for all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u84	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u85	The law proposes that this should be done only in certain exceptional cases where the Ukrainian currency market needs this mechanism after publication in the press, namely in the announcement of the National Bank of Ukraine, and for a period not exceeding 6 months. All of it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u86	He is pleased with the answer. And Falco will ask you another question. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u87	Thank you. Yuri Nikolaevich, I have heard literally all the answers to my questions and, of course, the law is very up to date, and thank you for making it so perfect. And we must insist on our positions because the National Bank will, of course, defend its positions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u88	Thank you for your question and wishes. I would like once again to draw your attention to the 19 and 22 FATF recommendations that are binding on us. After all, with great difficulty of ninety, oh, now I don't remember 99, I think, in 98 we were able to get away from FATF sanctions. Thus, the FATF recommendation said that the country should have the necessary measures to identify and track currency movements, but without prejudice to the free movement of capital. We have this law that makes it possible to follow the capital movement freely, easily and removes obstacles to it. Let our public authorities carry out their tasks and responsibilities by monitoring all these operations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u89	Thank you. That was in the year 98 after the global financial crisis started, remember what started in the East. Thank you, take your seats. I want to say thanks again for the professional report. The word comes from the committee Vitaly Yuriovich Homutinnik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u90	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! I would like to point out that the draft bill was before the committee on several occasions. There have been several times, there have been discussions of this bill in different formats, in working groups, in extended committee meetings. And the copyright team, especially the bill, worked very hard. This is confirmed by the fact that three times the drafters replaced the bill. And each time this bill became more qualitative and more receptive in order to accept it in the first reading. First of all, I would like to point out that adoption of the bill will be a major step towards bringing Ukrainian monetary legislation into line with international requirements for free movement of capital. The purpose of the bill, as the author said, is to expand the capacity of residents to develop external economic activities, increase exports, create favourable conditions for investing in the Ukrainian economy, develop international connections, remove tensions in relations with foreign partners. This bill stipulates that I am literally so thorough, because the author has very carefully described the content of the bill. Among the main conceptual blocks are the definition of the general principles of monetary regulation, the establishment of the order and conditions for the conduct of foreign exchange transactions in Ukraine, the approval by residents of foreign currency transactions, the determination of the powers and functions of the public authorities in the field of monetary regulation, the rights and responsibilities of residents and non-residents in Ukraine. Among the basic provisions of the bill that have already been mentioned and which are relevant, let's say, resonance, including the public and the media, I'd like to point out a few of them. First of all, the bill is allowed without restrictions to open foreign currency accounts in banks outside Ukraine. There are certain speculations as to whether there will be a capital outflow or no outflow and many other conversations. But there is a provision in this bill that limits the amount of these operations to 100,000 euros. And in the second reading, we'll still be consulting on this amount. 100,000 euros a year, or one can open an account abroad, but use it only within these limits. Why is this being done? We realize that today, unfortunately, several million of our fellow countrymen are employed in Poland, Hungary, and elsewhere. I think that's going to simplify a certain procedure of transaction and transfer even of these costs between countries. And that will only allow you to return to the country, actually return the money to our country, not the other way around, as they say, will be an outflow. Secondly, it is that legal persons also have the right to open special accounts in foreign banks, but only if they are licensed by the National Bank of Ukraine, as well as currency transactions, must be regulated by the National Bank by establishing requirements for the use of special accounts, as well as the requirement to reserve the corresponding amount. Next question. It is that individuals have the right to export once outside the country without a declaration of up to 10,000 euros. There have also been some discussions, but I would like to point out that the National Bank has already made a decision in accordance with its ruling that up to 10,000 euros can be declared without even this bill. Everything above.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u91	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u92	J. may be more than 10,000, a mandatory declaration confirming that these are legal, that these are the funds that have been recorded in a person’s declaration in the appropriate period of time. To conclude, I would like to say that there are a lot of issues left in this bill that are still unresolved. And we have to work very carefully with the National Bank for the second reading, because, let's say, most of the proposals we've taken into account, but again we have to do it in such a way that the adoption of this bill has everyone: and the National Bank, the National Deputies, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economics and Society. The committee therefore decided to adopt the bill in the first reading and, according to the Rules, to finalize the bill for the second reading in two weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u93	Thank you. Have a seat, please. You see, in the process of reporting and answering questions, we've heard some references to the position of the National Bank all the time. Here is the representative of the National Bank, Peter Kuzmić Germanchuk. Please, three minutes. What do you think of the man in charge?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u94	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. The National Bank has really worked fruitfully in the working group, in the committees, and considers its position regarding the adoption of the bill in the first reading. And the trouble is, there's not enough of them left, I think we're working on it, and it's going to be a great law, because the law that was passed as a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers since 93 is really not possible to work on it anymore.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u95	Great, great. And I think it honors the working group that worked on the project, that the biggest opponent or the most responsible structure for the organisation of the currency market, the National Bank of Ukraine, supports the possibility of adopting the law in the first reading. What do they want to say about this before the headship? Please sign up for the performance. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich. Matvienkov and Urbanski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u96	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished radio audiences! You know that the largest number of conflict situations, differences, misunderstandings occur when the most complex economic, financial, socio-political phenomena are not governed by laws based on the Constitution or based on the Constitution, but when these most complex processes, both in the socio-political sphere, are regulated financially by some presidential decrees, presidential decrees, orders, orders, orders, etc. Therefore, the main objective of today's bill is to legislatively formalize the complex process of monetary regulation and monetary control. The draft law is aimed at establishing conditions and procedures for the conduct of foreign exchange transactions by residents and non-residents in Ukraine to regulate the conduct of foreign exchange transactions by residents, the definition of the general principles of monetary regulation and the functions of public authorities in the field of currency regulation, etc. The law provides for the establishment of the basic principles of monetary regulation and monetary control in Ukraine, among which are aimed at ensuring the stability of the national monetary unit, the accumulation of the gold reserves needed to maintain financial stability and economic growth. There is also a mandatory sale of a share of foreign currency purchased by a resident under certain economic conditions. I fully support the proposal and the authors, and the proposal of the profile committee, and the proposal of the National Bank. Here they are said to come from one position, taking into account the State's interests regarding the need to regulate this very important and very, they say, complex direction of monetary regulation, of monetary control. I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading, that we work on and continue to adopt a bill in the second reading that is needed by the country that needs our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u97	Matvienkov. Out of the way. Sergei Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u98	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! Indeed, we are now living at a time when our economy is experiencing difficult moments, recovery moments, moments of intense development. And we understand very well that the regulation by the Cabinet of Ministers, dated 93 years, of the regulation of the banking system, has a certain impact on the processes that are going on in the economy today. We understand. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have come up with a structure or mechanism where the banking system has come together and it has started to work on its own, that is, when money was making money. It worked together from production. Bank-producer interaction system as a single whole mechanism where the manufacturer is able to borrow credit when it is able to attract this money to restructure production to introduce progressive technology for the purchase of technology, and so on unfortunately recently chrome. And we understand that in order to protect the niche that we have in the external markets today in order to intensively develop domestic production in order for us to be ready to join the WTO in order to look boldly forward to the economy, we must understand that any action in the industry must be backed up by a banking system that must become an integral part of our economy. We therefore welcome the faction's adoption of the bill because it is one of the key components of this large integrated programme. The only warning that we have and that we would like to make is that we should not lose the growth of our, well, national small banks that are now beginning to penetrate our way. That's what scares us so much. In order for large banks, foreign banks that have access to our markets, so to speak, have not literally moved through these growths of the economy that are beginning to break through. This is the first moment. And second moment. We are well aware that we must adapt to the European system, and we must adapt to the banking system of Europe and peace. We also appreciate this and understand it, but given that our industry has not yet matured to a certain level, the protective factors must be, and preferences for its own producer should also be there. And that's why here too, so to speak, in preparing for second reading, these regulatory points should be clearly stated here. In general, the bill is necessary, the bill is important. The need to adopt it has matured for a long time. And I consider this to be a normal step towards moving forward, but it requires serious refinements, so to speak, in order for us to have a normal, holistic, serious law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u99	Thank you. Also from the faction of socialists, Urban Igor Anatoliyovich signed up for the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u100	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Ubrański, PSU faction. It's about the draft law. The law is very modern in the sense that just in time, because the former has already begun to disrupt financial relations within the State. There are still a number of shortcomings in the draft law, but we all understand that changes in the regulation of financial relations within the State can only be an evolutionary way. The country is already tired of all these revolutionary efforts. That's why I think the law is very time-consuming. About the fears that we could suddenly contribute to the flow of capital from the country. There have always been and will be speculation about this. And I don't think it's necessary to be afraid, not prohibitive, to create conditions for intra-State investment. This law will certainly contribute to the start of the enterprise to reinvest its currency in its enterprises. I very much hope that it will further contribute to what we will eventually become, I mean, export businesses will also become competitive in that they will be able to lend longer loans to their goods. Because 90 days of return to the country of currency simply killed businesses. Now you don't have to limit it to 365 days, that's fine, that'll be fine. I will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-11-m0.u101	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded our discussion of this subject, and despite the fact that the subject is extremely complex, it has been emphasized by both the rapporteurs and those who participated in the discussion. And when there was a discussion of questions and answers. Anyway, the adoption of a law that regulates this area of law is better than the absence of that law. Igor Anatoliyovich has just said about the warnings that some have made about contributing to the outflow of capital abroad. Tell me, what, there's still no capital outflow? We don't know how we hid those or other multibillion dollars abroad? Do we not feel that the colossal capitals of the lipo organized on the basis of, again, the privatization decrees have disappeared and settled abroad? So let's sort this system, because by law, you can bring people to responsibility if they break it. I think we'll do the right thing if we adopt this law in the first reading. It's not my pressure on MPs, it's just my request to respond consciously. I'm voting on draft law registration number 3043 for the first reading vote on the basis. [[12:03:12]] For 258. Decision taken. I'm grateful to everyone. And I ask the committee, the working group, Yuri Mikhailovich Voropeyev, to speed up the work on preparing for the second reading of this law. With the help of the bank, we thank Peter Kuzmich for his active participation in the work. This morning’s session is closed. The meeting will take place tomorrow at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
