ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, radio audiences, TV sets! First of all, I apologize for the delay that has occurred for objective reasons, and we will no longer allow it today, at least. In the meantime, I ask the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:08:37]] There were 257 national deputies registered in the hall, and the morning session was declared open. First, I would like to welcome, on your behalf, the national deputies of Omelchenka Grigori Omelanovic and Silchenko Vasil Andriyovich, who are now of the same age. And I think it would be useful, on behalf of the Supreme Council, to welcome the MP of several vocations, twice the Socialist Hero, Pluto Vladimir Antonovich, who is now 80 years old. [[Applause]] This is a famous man in Ukraine, in Equality and in Europe, and abroad, known as a highly qualified specialist, a producer and not only and, of course, our colleague after the previous calls of the Supreme Council. We have the time foreseen by the Rules and our decision to make statements by authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages and speeches by the national MPs. I'm asking the factions to sign up first. Now from. Deputies from yourself, please register. Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich, please. Ivan Sidorovich Boki of the Socialist faction. Behind him is Kichiaty. Acid, yes, instead of Kichato.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! I have specific references to Victor Yushchenk as President and as a natural person. First. Victor Andryovich, I am very impressed by your call to love and protect mother tongue as a national language. But how long will you allow yourself to be so miserablely crippled by our flourishing, gracious, and good Ukrainian language? I'm not saying that you often don't know the meaning and scope of the use of words, and then the word “complement” sounds somewhere at the level of the presence of a smoldering goat in royal rooms. I'm not talking about using your language. To give up where you need to and where you don't need to, believe me, whenever you use it. I understand your accounting habit of professional terminology as "acceptance" and so on, but there are Ukrainian matches. So should you not transform the classic Arcadia phrase for yourself: “Victor, don’t speak beautifully, because soon you won’t understand what you’re saying.” And the first-grader, and the president and the first-graders, should know the difference between the attitude and the attitude that the nation and the state can't be better, and so can the better, and in general, if better, what for or for anyone who lives by law, not by law, that road maps in Ukraine have a very specific meaning and are well known by all cartels. I do not want to continue this series or a series of language incontroversies, the Russian “connoisseurs”, the President of his 28 April rally, but believe me, Victor Andriyovich, it is very sad to listen to the lexically and stylistically illiterate President of the State. I wanted to teach you something in language by my former stylistics professor Tetjana Savivna Jarmolenko, who, while reading our student exercises like “the boys process the queen’s fields,” shouted: “Beat, pornography!” Do not continue to pornographicize the Ukrainian word, Mr. Yushchenko. The other one. Listening to your unsaid -- I repeat, in Russian, "conophonic" -- and for any important rights. I'm a lawyer. funny exercises in the treatment of constitutional regulations that seem to give you the right to dissolve the Supreme Council, I mentioned your somewhat ancient, early April, reference not to the letter, but to the spirit of the Basic Law. Reasonable and life - beating lawyers have long explained that the laws do not touch anything, but they do not perceive the spirit, coming out of your carefree, self - pornographic, or grammamanized. I seem to have understood your inclination or affection for spirit or spirit. However, let me remind you, Mr. Yushchenko, that one of our contemporaries, the author of the famous “Million Al-Rosses” by Andriy Woznesensky, has long ago set a trend in the modern development of this immaterial subject, the pornography of the spirit. I don't think we should go on. Everyone understands. Third, but not last. I applauded you, Viktor Andriyovich, after hearing your demand, not the call at party gatherings to give up the parliamentary integrity. But at party gatherings? This is done by changes to the Constitution, or the Supreme Council. But then let's get pornography out of the spirit of the President's demands and calls, and let's end this whole thing altogether: The president, the national deputies and the judges. As I can see, this outburst of pornographic spirit in nature. The president solemnly goes to the Supreme Council’s rostrum, without the usual macabre voice - breaking announcement of his appearance and thus solemnly makes up a touch. He's throwing it It's made up of itself, it's followed by the deputies and the judges, and the process of cleansing begins, something like a prayer or a crusade led by the President of the Metropolitan Police. And then there's the symbolic, but also the natural cancelling of itself, the dumping of the chains of clothing and the sanctification in the trunks naked, the writings in the Constitution, and all of them are already touched not only by the flesh but also by the spirit. Agreed, Mr. President, to share this feast of touch. And the fourth. It's not like it's a bottle and a glass. I am not completely choked with vodka or honey. And I understand very well, Victor Andryovich, that you need talk about language as the former speculators on horseback whistles. Which refers to the Constitution for you, not even a thief to cover up shame, but just a ritual moment that all talk about the spirit is no more than a pose for sleep. I think that you and your community have openly declared war on the Constitution, the Supreme Council, the Constitutional Court, the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u3	Let me finish. But finish up, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u4	and to all the civilized world, except perhaps some tribes from Africa, Polynesia, so to address you with naive desires and vain and low and unworthy Ukrainian Parliamentarianism. And we, according to the Constitution, are members of the acting Supreme Council, although your chief lawyer and thus Kotlarevski wrote: Puckshin seems to be calling the Supreme Council a discussion club. He's probably the one who came up with something like a raider club, as they call it now in the intellectual circles of the President's Department of Personnel. I want to say one thing, and I'm done. Have you thought of a coup d'état and want to make it happen in the days to come, and it's tearing you to a constitutional referendum? We know that, and the world you spit on already knows that. But a wise person does not spit even in a well from which he drinks water. And you and your source are clearly different from the old people who know this practice. Even if you and your present criminal environment succeed, you will soon have to rule. Ukraine will distract you, take you away forever. And if anyone ever mentions your presidency, it's like a historical anecdote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u5	Thank you. The word is Kiselov from the faction of the Party of Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u6	Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, after a citizen of Yushchenko took part in the opposition rally, I think he stopped being President of all Ukraine and became President of the opposition and continued to carry out the task of the final break-up and dissipation of Ukraine. Notice, he is not interested in anything other than the early parliamentary elections, at a time when the government of Yanukovič is working hard to raise the social standards of life of Ukrainian citizens. We call your attention for the second time in a year, according to a previously approved plan, there is a substantial increase in wages and pensions in the country. Once again, I point out that the plan to raise the social standards of life of citizens, which was approved at the end of 2006, not yesterday and not today. So the question is, how can you not love your people, my nation, I mean, first of all, the President of Ukraine, so as not to allow the government to implement a program to raise living standards for citizens? But once again, I would like to remind everyone, Mr. President, that even in the Ukrainian President's secretariat, they understand that by recognizing that he has lost the validity of the President's first decree on early, timely suspension of the powers of deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine before the Second Order, by infringing the procedure without consulting, has thus declared us legitimate. Therefore, we need to work calmly, explain to society that all the laws, regulations of the Supreme Council that we accept are legitimate and binding on implementation in Ukraine. He doesn't want the opposition to take part in the Supreme Council meeting, that's their business. The president won't sign the budget changes to raise the living standards of citizens, and the voters will give him an estimate. But in any case, even if the president doesn't sign the budget changes, according to the legislation in force in 15 days, the law will gain legal power. And the government will be bound to do it. And we're gonna help him. The next thing I'd like to draw your attention to is the appointment of Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Honorable Stephen Bogdanovich Gavrish. A respected man, a high-class specialist. But with all due respect to him, until he takes an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine, he has no right to participate in the Constitutional Court. And all decisions taken by the court on his part will be declared illegal. The same would be true of the Central Electoral Commission's decisions if the President suddenly went on to commit two missing members of the CTC. We know that if there is such an order, all decisions taken by the CBC, with their participation, will be declared illegal. And as for the judge of the Constitutional Court, I want to say it separately. I'm making an offer. To give a protocol order, Alexandre Alexandrovich, the Committee on Justice and Legal Policy, to consider the fact that he had broken his oath and to make a proposal to the Supreme Council to release him from office of the Constitutional Court, he was elected by the quota of the Supreme Council, and to appoint a second person who would not break his oath. And a second offer. Considering that the opposition MPs do not take part in the work of the Supreme Council, neither in plenary meetings nor in committees, but they get paid properly, they use car transportation, they use hotel services. I propose that the Rules Committee should consider and deprive them of all of this, that they receive unlawfully, without the mandate of a deputy, do not take part in the work of the Supreme Council. And to the end. When I analyze dozens of Ukrainian Presidential decrees issued contrary to the Constitution of Ukraine, I ask myself questions. What were people standing on the ground for? For democracy and against the dictatorship of Kuchma? But Leonid Danilovich Kuchma is a heavenly angel compared to Yushchenk today. Moreover, at the Timoshenko rally, when she said that she had fought the crime regime for 10 years, she somehow forgot that she and Yushchenko had worked for this for several years, she said, criminal regime, with which she had crushed her billions. For good reason, if God wants to punish a person, he takes away his mind. Because they don't even control what they're saying. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u7	Thank you. Alexandrovsky is written. Peter Kuzmić. Peter Stepanovich. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u8	Thank you. The Communist faction. Chairman of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons, Peter Cibenko. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, by its decision of 30 April, decided on the simultaneous early elections of both the President and the people's deputies of Ukraine. Once again, I would like to emphasize that the country's supreme legislative body, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, has acted in full compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, the legislation in force, and no one is obliged to ask permission, even for Grandma Parasky, along with Balogya. The holding of these elections is conditional on a number of changes to existing legislation and the Constitution of Ukraine. In this regard, when preparing for change, we should consider with you, honourable Members, who should be the guarantor of the Constitution. Because current events, the attempt of the coup d'état to usurp power taken by President Yushchenko, indicate how dangerous it is to leave this office in the hands of the President, at least what we are dealing with now. Secondly, when an initiative was first launched in this room to assess the need for the President of Ukraine to be adequate in the current situation, the ability to make informed decisions, finally his capacity, had been questioned by some of the deputies as to the need for that step. However, the latest fruits of the directive have convinced everyone that this is simply necessary. I will add from myself and the faction that unfortunately, the time has been lost when we were able to make some sort of vaccination, I don't know how to say, out of rage or political madness. Because the events of the last days showed that the Presidential environment had finally torn down the roof. In these circumstances, the early elections of Ukraine's President and People's Deputies are inevitable. Third. Now I wanted to address the so-called united opposition. Hey! People's defenders! People's populists! People's crybabys! Where are you? Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine intends to amend the State budget for 2007. These changes provide for a substantial increase in wages and pensions. But since the subject of the committee that I have the honour to chair is retirement, I would like to say a few words in this regard. It is assumed, and this is very symbolic of what is being done on the eve of the next anniversary of the victory, that there is a substantial increase in pensions for the various categories of war participants. In particular, for persons with disabilities of the first group, this increase will be about 190 bracelets. For persons with disabilities of the war of the second group of about 300 grevens, for persons with disabilities of the war of the third group of 177 grevens, more specifically 235, I beg your pardon, 235. And 177 grevens for the participants in the fighting. That is, a substantial increase, not by 5-7, 10 bracelets, but by a substantial increase in pension insurance. At the same time, I stress and this is of principle important importance. All figures not included under the special merit pension law before Ukraine. I mean, this figure is actually much more significant. And second, what I wanted to say in this regard is, for the Committee, for me, for the coalition and for the Government today, it is crucial to meet the category of pensioners who were recalculated in 2004 and have not increased significantly since then. A certain step is being taken towards this category of Ukrainian citizens. Therefore, today, from the rostrum of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I would like, on behalf of the Committee, on my part, to thank the Government for the initiative with which they have come out, by adopting this decision and introducing a draft change to the State budget, and to express our confidence that we will solve this problem with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u9	Thank you. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u10	I am not surprised if tomorrow a group of political “shulers” and political “headquarters” from the immediate surroundings of the President make a proposal to him. They will say, Victor Andreevich, you have long been prevented from living comfortably in Parliament, Government, Constitutional Court, Supreme Court and other courts. You have already issued several non-constitutional decrees, issue another non-constitutional decree, one more, one less, one less. And you will change the 5th article of the Constitution, where it is written today that Ukraine is a republic, and you will write that since your decree was issued, Ukraine has become an absolute monarchy. And then you will be king, king, emperor and monarch. And you're not just going to run the country, you're going to rule as a monarch. But it would be so funny if it wasn't so bitter and painful for the country. It is regrettable that the President, by signing two non-constitutional decrees on the dismissal of two judges of the Constitutional Court and one on appointment, continues to play the field of lawlessness, further putting the political situation at a standstill. Dear friends! We must understand that there cannot be a strong solution to today's political crisis. It may be possible for the President to force Parliament and the Government to do as the President wishes, in turn, that Parliament and the Government will not be able to impose their scenario. Civilization can only be one, in the legal constitutional field. And here is the perfectly fair and legitimate position of the National Unity Coalition that the relationship between the branches of power must be resolved only by the Constitutional Court. By the way, this is the focus of the PARE resolution on Ukraine, which has the key to solving all our problems. Paragraph 14 of the resolution contains a specific recipe, and I will read it again. The Assembly reiterates that the authority of the single body of constitutional justice, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, must be guaranteed and respected. Pressure in any form against judges is unacceptable and must be investigated and prosecuted in criminal order. There is an urgent need for decisions on the constitutionality and presidential decree of April 2, 2007. In the event of adoption, this decision must be recognized as compulsory by all parties. On that basis, once again, I appeal to the President, Victor Andreevich, cancel your two illegal dismissal orders for two judges and one for appointment. Cancel the second decree on the dissolution of Parliament and allow the Constitutional Court to decide on the constitutionality of the President's decree of 2 April on the dissolution of the Supreme Council. After that, everyone must recognize any decision of the Constitutional Court and, by moving away from it, engage in dialogue at the round table of the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council, the leaders of political parties and find political compromise not for the benefit of individual political forces but for the benefit of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people. The other one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u11	Thank you. Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u12	Cowchenko faction commies. Dear colleagues! I was a little surprised that the Supreme Council had not responded in any way to the rule of law that had been allowed by Davdovic, Chairman, head of CBC. The fact that he himself extended the deadline for two days, in my view, illegally, extended the deadline for the submission of the lists of members of the District Commissions – it is already a bomb to the future legitimacy of those elections that the President wants to conduct with a maniacal sequence. Serious pressure is being exerted on members of the CLTC, and Dawdovic as head of the CLTC, as the head of the collegiate body, is doing everything to gloat before the President and solve the problem. There was a meeting yesterday, perhaps today, and tomorrow the President is gathering governors, at which I think the president of the CFC will also be. That is why I am addressing the Attorney-General, and I ask that this be described as a question of the MPs, with a follow-up question. First. On what basis did Davydovic increase the time frame, disrupt the calendar time frame of the elections, and increase the time frame for submitting the lists? On the basis of which Davdovic is scheduled to submit his candidatures on the lists of district electoral commissions. Do you know what we can get to? To date, as a collegiate body, CERs are virtually non-working, there has been only one meeting of legitimacy, and the rest have been held in the meeting mode. Davdovic himself, not as a collegiate body, tries to issue him for the decision of the collegiate body and sends telegrams and documents to the executive authority for the organization of the elections by signature. Therefore, I ask that the Office of the Attorney-General, in the event of violations of the law, and yesterday the Attorney-General assures the President that he will ensure the legality of the elections. I would ask that this issue be dealt with very quickly and formally before we go to the courts. The colleague now spoke about Gavrish. I'm sorry I tried to kick his ass. The point is that we know Gavrish as a specialist – he is “a skipper from one branch to the next”. If he were a specialist, he would never allow himself to appear in the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u13	Thank you. Now he's acting in place of Slobodan Giga, please, and then instead of Rudnik Bielash.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u14	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! To the head of the Supreme Council, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Commissioner of the Supreme Council for Human Rights, a number of national deputies, including, to my address, as my family is here, I believe it is necessary to read out the statement made by the citizen of Korovska Olena Ivanovna, who has arrived. “The honourable rule, which is the only legitimate authority in Ukraine, is addressed to you by the wife of one of the Ukrainian Armed Forces military officers, who was brought to despair by the actions of the Ukrainian Ministry of Defence, which is the result of the abuse, corruption and banditry. What is happening in the military today is not part of a normal understanding of a healthy person. During the past month, the Ministry of Defence has taken all legal and illegal measures to raise money for the organization of re-elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Few funds are being stolen under the funding articles designed to maintain the security of the Armed Forces, fuel supplies, repairs of technology and weapons, maintenance and repair of buildings and buildings, and today they are being robbed by military officials, forcing them to turn in money that will then go to the Supreme Council. In early April of this year, under the direction of Ukrainian Defence Minister Griesenka, with the knowledge of the Chief of General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine Kirichenko at the General Staff of the Armed Forces, the command of the ground forces, the air force, the naval forces of Ukraine had collected lists of military personnel who had lawfully condemned the Ukrainian Armed Forces and received debt for the lack of food rations in recent years. Some 450 military personnel were found. The average amount received for one military officer amounts to about 30,000 dollars. A total of about 13 million. Later, between April 9th and April 14th, Kirichenkok, the Ministry of Defence, and the commanders of the army, the army and the naval forces, were held working meetings at which department heads were assigned tasks: any way to recover these costs, regardless of the court's decision. In recent times, military personnel from these lists have been summoned “on carpets” to commanders of different levels, they have been intimidated psychologically, pressured and threatened, if they do not voluntarily recover these funds, they will be released from military service.” Further, a citizen writes: “I beg you, help me! This can no longer be tolerated; the situation in the military walls is becoming critical. The answer may not be given, you better help fix the situation.” There is a request to the Attorney General's Office, to entrust the Security Service, to the Court of Auditors, as far as the budget is concerned, and to the Ministry of Defense to examine in depth the question of the protection of rights.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u15	Mikola Vasilovich, prepare a draft of references to these institutions, and I'll sign them as trouble. Yes. Please. Bilash Boris Fedorovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u16	Dear Alexanderovich! Dear colleagues! The country is politically biased and we hear it ringing. On the terms of our guarantor and his “loving friends” to attend a meeting with his people, it is appropriate to recall the phrase of the Bulgarian character: “Do not ask, they will surrender.” But according to the circumstances, it is not particularly worth hoping for the sanity of the discerning opposition. Even in the spring season, the orange festivals do not have a break, and the people are tired. Once again, the country's comedians are indignant. And we're all like in a stupid dream where we can't wake up. But how can you think of this nonsense, which is not lawful, And even an apple, a rich color doesn't look white, it's black. The people are ready for everything for stability, the actions of the President's strategy create mass psychosis, enough sparks and could happen irreparable. Politics came into every family. Majdan brought war into the family, in a conversation behind the walk, and he drew the line of my wife to compare me to the humble Yulk, when she took a belligerent look, she swore to me that she would not forgive the insult and avenge herself in the grave! In conclusion, I would like to draw attention to the unique pattern of the hypocrisy of our opponents. And I warn them: Do not speak from the face of the people, when they have long believed in it, That it is not the face of the people, but the face, One for all, one for all, one for all. You're thinking proudly of yourself. I have no doubt, but not for a moment, That you're a face, really a dick. And that's even a soft compliment. I believe in the moral health of our people, who feed on deep relatives of wisdom, eternal wisdom. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u17	The word is "Dach" instead of "Vernidubov" and "Mendus" is after him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u18	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. Dutch, Party of Regions. Listening to my colleagues commenting on the situation after the President's second presidential decree on early elections, I feel that we have already passed. This feeling arises after every appeal, such as the spell of the need to remain in the constitutional field and respect the rule of law. To refresh my memory, in 2004, this appeal was a chore in many speeches, including mine. But the hope for compliance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine at that time ended with well-known political decisions. It is clear that we are seeing a repetition of the situation when certain forces, losing their authority and authority, are making an absolute stake in political decision-making within the framework of political expediency. I therefore conclude that calls for respect for the norms of democracy, the rule of law, the Constitution of the country, the morality, the political dialogue, the integration of the interests of the people of Ukraine directly by the opposite party. It seems that it has been decided to take a frank course towards achieving a rematch at any cost in the hope that the winners are not judged. In fact, we have three ways. The first is not to recognize or implement decisions taken outside the Constitution. The second is to follow the path proposed by the President and the opposition. The third is that the President's decision must be carried out in a contentious manner in the Constitutional Court. And in the case of elections, to achieve a level of confidence of the people of Ukraine that no one could question. We don't have that big a choice. Each of these paths has an opportunity to implement itself. I would like to point out that we are encouraged by the first option, especially since it is quite active by many on the left bank of Dnieper. In fact, we are provoked and encouraged by inadequate decisions. The only thing that the authors do not take into account is the effect on the country if it is realized. It's not clear what they're thinking by opening up a naughty scenario with irreparable consequences. They say it's advice to give to someone just to piss him off. Yet, I hope that there are still sober people in the ranks of the opposition. And by addressing them, I want to say that it's hard to push a stone of dialogue into the mountain and to seek compromise.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u19	Let me finish with the stone to make it clear.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u20	And down a rock of discord, hatred is carried quickly, reckoning everything in its path. And two words to the President. Victor Andreevich, every day and even time, you have less and less time to save the country from falling into a frenzy of hatred and understanding. There will be hot heads in every camp, ready not to make jokes, but adults. Don't give them a chance to stop the flying stone. The specific proposals made at yesterday's meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine as leader of the Faction of the Party of the Regions of Botirevo could be a mechanism for this. Victor Andreevich, they say you can't compromise. I know you, I don't believe you. I believe in your sanity for the whole of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u21	Thank you. Menduz. After him, Gorbenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u22	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! Every day news of repeated violations of the Constitution and laws of Ukraine by a man of the rank, the high title of the President of Ukraine, and authorized by the Ukrainian people to be a guarantor of the rights and freedoms of Ukrainian citizens. The interests of all the citizens of Viktor Andriyovich changed to the interests of the martyrdom group. The result is obvious. The more a coalition of national unity insists on negotiations, the more the President is willing to issue new decrees, considering that breaking laws is a sign of force. We believe that any negotiation with a person who has illegally tried to change the composition of the Constitutional Court is impossible. The Constitutional Court must work without any pressure, otherwise there can be no compromise in the state. In all European countries, the Constitutional Court itself and its decision are at the heart of political compromise in cases of opposition between the institutions of power. Yushchenko decided, under the cover of the slogan of fighting for the purity of the Constitution, to break its foundations. In this situation, stability cannot be achieved because the opponents will always be hindered. It is now clear that Yushchenko will stop only when by his decrees he appoints all the judges of the Constitutional Court, then it is likely that the judges of the Supreme Court will turn to the Supreme Court. And the judges of the district courts, Viktor Andriyovich, has long been swapping packages without the rule of law. So this is called democracy? As he waved the flag of the Democrat, Viktor Yushchenko gradually turned into a normal political rider. It will soon come to the point that he will change the composition of the Central Elections Authority, the government, and then appoint members of the Supreme Council by decree. In two years, Viktor Andriyovich did not carry out any systematic reform that would allow him to be considered an effective democratic politician. And over the past few months, he's decided to put his ideas on democracy in Ukraine with a pack of decrees. In the near future, Yushchenko will issue all new and new decrees, and he is warned of only one thing that will become evident around the world: today’s crisis is caused by an incompetent person on the street of Banks. Therefore, the Supreme Council should make every effort to demonstrate the position of the National Unity Coalition in front of a foreign society. Without international mediation, the solution to the crisis created by Victor Yushchenk is impossible.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u23	Thank you. Gorbunka, please. This will be the last performance. If I'm not mistaken, this is your first speech on the floor of Parliament, please. Listen carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u24	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The events of the last few weeks have demonstrated to all voters that their romantic expectations are not strengthened today by the actual actions of the opposition political forces, behind which they stood on Maidan in 2004 and cast their votes in March 2006. It doesn't fit the concept of democracy and Europeanism. And even the euro romances have become clear: these Timoshenkos, Kirilenkos, Lucenkos, will not lead us to Europe today. A righteous goal may sometimes be accompanied by false acts. Sadly, this truth of the Ukrainian electorate has long been taught by orange politicians. But even those who have accepted this thesis realize that the path to a righteous purpose cannot be accompanied only by unrighteous acts but only by lies and only by unrepentant counterfeiting. That's why the events surrounding the President's decrees seem to place all the dots above the "and." What horrendous lies the orange politicians have been exposed to these weeks shows that they have been rejected even by the rush of democracy, that they are experiencing real hysteria, or even agony. Clearly, they are lying to voters today. Why tell the President lies to the children? I would like to turn to that lesson. I'm the one who was led by the President. To school. One of the schools in Kiev. Yushchenko did not mention more than an hour of lecture on Ukraine's national history and culture in a single word, except for the Ukrainians in our only country, there are also Russians, Jews, Tatars, hagaus, Moldovans and people of other nationalities living in our only country, and they have also contributed significantly to the history of Ukrainian culture. However, Yushchenko’s words about NATO were good. He assured the children that Ukraine would inevitably join this bloc because otherwise it would be difficult for us to develop our science, medicine, social problems, and so forth. And it's only natural to protect ourselves from obstinacy. We need to understand from Russia, Belarus, and Moldova, since our other neighbors are members of the mentioned guarantee of our future prosperity. Thus, the President has misled children because the greatest success in the economy and social spheres in Europe is demonstrated by precisely neutral countries, such as Switzerland, Sweden, Austria, Ireland, Finland and others, who feel in total security and are distinct from the inherent internal stability. And the long-lived NATO-Turkey, neither internal stability nor special success in the economy, are yet to advise today. Of course, the main emphasis was made by Yushchenko on his plans for language politics. He told the children that a model for Ukraine should be Denmark, with 3-5 million people speaking the same language and proud of it. I was wondering, so ski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u25	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u26	I was wondering, as far as the Danes are concerned, 3 million or 5. The Encyclopaedia says that 5 and that in Denmark, apart from the Danish official Greenland, Greenland is recognized, the Danish, Ferrar Islands are Faeroe, the German is an official regional language within the German compact residence of Denmark from the FRN. And with regard to English, there are plans to announce it as Denmark's second national integration into Europe is increasing. This information is, in fact, somewhat different from Yushchenk's claims that Danish is a tribal language, the language of a tribe. I have a request to the President: Mr. President, you need to try not to speak Danish today, but to speak Ukrainian. This list could be continued. And you won't return what you said. The only thing left to do is to feel sorry for schoolchildren selected by the object of Yushchenka’s linguistic and historical squadrons, and to expect their teachers to find a way to tell their children delicately that the high guest was not all that was accurate, to say the least. Obviously, there's a lot of excitement: the first lesson, after all. Regardless of the fact that Yushchenko is an academic at the Academy of Economic Sciences of Ukraine and an academic at the Ukrainian Academy of Economic Cybernetics, by the way, the only two academics and simply an academic president in the world. He's like a teacher today. And, Victor Andryovich, it would have to be carefully prepared for the first lesson, and, judging from all that, he relied excessively on the experience of his performances on the stage, allowing himself to speak all that he could. Whatever you want, whatever you want. And free! And finally. By rephrasing the President's thesis on democracy he announced in the European square, I'll say this: democracy is a science that gives the whole Ukrainian people a chance to re-elect the President. And it's time for orange extremism to lie on the cemetery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u27	Thank you. Dear fellow MPs! The presentations included a proposal regarding the evaluation of the activity recommended to the Constitutional Court of Judge Stetsuk. Let us take this protocol commission from the Committee on Legal Policy: to analyse the issue and make proposals for Parliament's consideration. This is about the law on the Constitutional Court, which provides for certain requirements for judges and sanctions that are both provided for in the Constitution of Ukraine and the law on the Constitutional Court, if the judge violates the oath. I think there's something to talk about. Similarly, it was proposed to the regulatory committee and let's ask Alexander Sergiyovich to consider some of the conditions for ensuring that MPs who deliberately violate legislation do not go to meetings of either parliament or committees, and this is not an episode, but the system should obviously have an appropriate response. Perhaps some changes should be made to the Rules, and we can also consider making appropriate proposals, but there is a long time to do so. But it used to apply to one or two deputies, and today it's more than that, and it's clearly not an efficient spending. Now with regard to other performances, I asked for such details to be considered. When we criticize anyone, or even the president, for not making the exact words and, or other words, consider this detail: when a person is at a rally, and I've had to speak hundreds of times, I can confirm it and stand before you, let's say, four or ten thousand people, you seem to have the whole nation standing before you. And then you say the words, sometimes even by misusing them. He rightly said, I don’t remember any of the speakers, even such an experienced speaker and public politician, as Vasil Alexiyovich mentioned, and even says that she had fought the Kuchma regime for ten years. I made a mistake, too, because, you know, the excitement in front of people, you speak, you can make a mistake. So let us apologize to each other, including those at the rally if they are misusing words. Well, the other thing is in class, of course, is to be accurate in terms of history and in terms of language. I wanted to pay attention to that detail. We will now, through a number of regulations, and then we will consider the issue of the Law on Budget Change. It's about, first of all, the social security of citizens, the work being done by the government to raise wages, pensions, social security, etc. You mean that opponents of political coalitions and governments will say that it is an episode of either a political situation or something. I'll remind everyone. This is a work plan that was decided in January by the Cabinet of Ministers and the Ukrainian Parliament. So, I think that's what this is all about, and that's the key we need to look at the point. Now, concerning other matters mentioned by MPs. It is true that today there are excruciating conditions that have been created for the Central Electoral Commission and the Constitutional Court. I emphasize the insatiable working conditions. Pressure's off. The calls on, previously spoken in Russian, the envelope. An explanation of their moral responsibility. For what, she asks? For breaking the law. Here, I think, even an example, such as the appointment of Judge Stephen Gavrish, is remarkable. There is an elementary standard of law. Representatives of the parties, therefore political leaders of the parties, and Havrish is the party leader, cannot be appointed judges of the Constitutional Court. Or maybe someone doesn't know, he's the head of the All-U.S. Political Union Center. The other thing, maybe someone didn't hear that party, doesn't matter. But it's an authoritative party because it takes a centrist position by its name, by its mark. It's important. And it's important that the law is broken. This situation should be taken into account. And if we get, for example, a draft decree on the depoliticization of the Central Electoral Commission made in the secretariat, it's in the President's Secretariat. What does that mean? That the President may, in his view, not be party members, but that it is clear that neutral people should be appointed by members of the Central Electoral Commission, although the Constitution provides for a completely different order. I say this in order to tell those who are preparing such things that they can go through at some point today, but then they will go back to them anyway and whoever is preparing such documents, who will sign such documents, they will answer again in accordance with the law. I'm also talking about this because we all understand, the situation is more serious and worthy, perhaps not sometimes of the sarcasms that sound at the parliamentary session. The matter goes on and can end tragically for Ukraine, the loss of statehood, could result in tragic consequences for people. Therefore, the proposals that have been made here regarding the return to the legal field for constitutional consultations are the only way out for Ukraine. And all those who oppress another perspective or other processes play with fire. They do not yet feel what awaits them after all this has calmed down and when they have to lay stones for those scattering it today. It's a very serious matter, I would like us to be responsible, feel responsible for this moment, and I urge everyone to weigh, restrain and work in accordance with the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Conciliation Council in this case of three factions and some of the other factions that do not form part of the coalition, we discussed the need for the adoption of the Supreme Council Order on Amendments to the Supreme Council Order of 30 April “On Elections of the President of Ukraine and of the National Deputies of Ukraine”, which provides for the commission of the Central Electoral Commission and the Cabinet of Ministers to be made and to accept further clarifications on the legal purity of this process. Registration number 3508, I ask you to include in the order of the day this question to consider it essentially. Please. [[11:02:46]] For 243 The authors of this project are three national deputies from different factions, but for the citizens to hear what I'm talking about, I'm going to read this project and I want you to support it. The Supreme Council of Ukraine rules First. Amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 30 April 7th, “On the election of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies”, complementing it with three new paragraphs. Four. The Central Electoral Commission has been guided by the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision of April 2, 7th, to prevent acts that threaten constitutional law, public order and stability in Ukraine. Ensure the proper implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Voters and the timely preparation and conduct of the elections of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies, as provided for in paragraph 1 of this decision. Fifth. The Office of the Ministers of Ukraine shall take the necessary measures to ensure that the funding provided for in paragraph 1 of this decision is provided for by the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies in the scope and order laid down by law. In this regard, paragraph four is to be considered paragraph six. The other one. To recognize that the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision of the second fourth seventh year “To annul the Supreme Council’s decision to terminate the term of office of members of the CLTC” and the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Order of the second number 844 “To revoke the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s decision to appoint members of the CLP”. Third. This decision takes effect from the day of adoption.” I would like to emphasize, by quoting this draft document, that the Supreme Council's rulings have the same legal power as the President's decrees, but that the reference even goes to the Supreme Council's ruling that will be adopted before the President's decree comes into effect, so that even in the President's Secretariat there is no doubt that it must be done. Here's a document. Can you accept it in the first reading? I'm voting on the first reading of this draft decree. [[11:05:20]] For the 250. Decision taken. Complements will be, clarification? None. I'm voting on the whole draft Supreme Council ruling. Registration number 3508. Voting. [[11:05:49]] For 246 Decision taken. For 246, against - 1, holding - 1. Ladies and gentlemen, your opinion is on a proposal for a Supreme Council order to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine for decrees by the President of Ukraine regarding the suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation for the term. The content (which is made up of deputies: Kuzmenko, Samahlov and Kilinkarov, and the content of the decree itself is the same. To endorse the appeal of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the President of Ukraine for orders from the President of Ukraine regarding the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And this text is added. And second, this ruling takes effect from the day it was adopted. I ask you to include this issue in the order of the day, allow us to consider it and accept it. Please. [[11:07:02]] For 251 Decision taken. The honourable MPs, the authors of this draft specialist, the lawyers, have prepared six pages of a speech in which they are convincingly proving, firstly, that the President's decrees have no relation to the Constitution, that they are outside constitutional acts, i.e. illegal acts. And they're asking him, when he understands this, to take the measures that he predicted, once again, by the Constitution, to cancel his decrees. But about five pages of the detailed substance of the electoral law, and the impossibility of its use, or the inability to comply with the law, has been confirmed in the time series provided for in the relevant decrees. It's a good methodical material and a legal document for those who use the rules of this law, and it can basically convince themselves that, from this point of view, the decree is absolutely unrealistic, and that elections are conducted honestly, openly, so that people can express their views equally on a matter that is impossible, and that is the requirement of the Constitution and that is the norms of international law. So I would like us to take a close look at this and each of you have taken this document for yourself to work to explain to people and to those who come to support or against the coalition today to understand what is going on. 'Cause we could have an affair, but we're gonna have to take responsibility for it. And here's a convincing argument about what the law can't be done, because the law was written for normal elections, I mean, not for time-consuming elections, but for ordinary elections. It's just not possible to manage it in a timely election. I'd like you to pay attention to that. I know that you've read this document all and you can use it again to convince those who doubt and to establish your position on the need to uphold legal norms in any campaign. Can we base these documents?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u28	The ruling and the appeal that is added to the ruling are put to the vote. [[11:09:49]] For 252 What addition is there to the need to make? There is one proposal: to have this document published on record in the Voice of Ukraine, and it, the decree, is being printed, and the address will certainly be printed. But it's, I mean, not just an official document that's interesting to not all readers, and it's going to be interesting to all citizens, because it's about absolutely specific, important things. Therefore, if there is no objection, I am putting to the vote a 3510 project on the appeal of the Supreme Council to the President of Ukraine for decrees on the suspension of the terms of office of the Supreme Council on the fifth call. I'll bet you a vote. [[11:10:48]] For 255 Decision taken. No one voted against it. Now you have a draft Supreme Council regulation on registration number 3511 on some measures to strengthen the House Protection regime of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. I ask you to put this question in order and consider it essentially. [[11:11:26]] For 258. Decision taken. The project’s authors, in particular the Samofalov MP, propose to draw the attention of the management of the Ukrainian State Protection Authority to the need to provide for a strengthened regime for the protection of the Supreme Council’s premises. This uses arguments that we won't fit in the decision, but which are facts of our social life, and threats, and the presence in Kiev of some citizens, and not of our nationality, I mean not of our citizenship, which today, there are rumors of what the windows can beat and so on. Therefore, there is obviously a need to seek additional support from us, perhaps even greater costs, in order to ensure order and protection of the premises of the Supreme Council. Appropriate orders are given to the Governing Body of the Supreme Council regarding the making of appropriate agreements and so forth. If there's no objection, I'm putting this whole decision to the vote as a document of the Supreme Council. Please, there's a vote. [[11:12:57]] For 259. Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007 is under consideration. I'd like to include this order in the agenda today, registration number 3509, it's in your hands. I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:13:34]] For 257 Decision taken. With regard to the rules of procedure. Our Regulatory Committee proposes such an order. Budgeted, sorry, committee. First Deputy Prime Minister's report in 25 minutes. Answers to questions in 10 minutes. Report to the head of the Committee on Budget Affairs in 10 minutes. Answers to questions in six minutes. Discussion and decision-making in 30 minutes and together – 1 hour 20 minutes. Is there no objection? We have 45 minutes to take off. There's no objection. I'm voting on this draft regulation, please. [[11:14:32]] For 256 Decision taken. The word is given to First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance of Ukraine Azarov Mikola Janović. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u29	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear national MPs, citizens of Ukraine! It's only been nine months since our government worked. In such a relatively short time, we were able not only to stabilize the situation that was critical in the summer of 2006 but also to ensure a systematic improvement in the welfare of our citizens. We have neutralized the system's budgetary problems in 2006 due to the estimates of our predecessors in the budget and the rapid decision-making of unfunded budgetary resources, since by the middle of 2006, there were virtually no budget resources to pay: the pension of military personnel was not enough to cover almost 700 million dollars, wages and energy costs in local budgets -- 840 million dollars was insufficient, assistance to families with children, low-income families, disabled children and temporary state aid to children -- almost 300 million dollars was insufficient, compensation for families with children and free nutrition for children affected by the Chernobyl disaster -- 34.5 million dollars was not enough, and the additional need for social expenditure was $2.2 billion. With a view to resolving the most acute budgetary problems in November 2006, government-led changes to the State Budget Act were introduced by Parliament on 14 November. We ended 2006 with positive results, virtually eliminating the crisis in the economy and in the budgetary sphere. As a result of the well-balanced actions of the government, the economy quickly went up. In the current year, the growth rate of gross domestic product and industrial production has increased significantly. I will note that until steady economic growth has been recorded, the government has not overburdened the budget with excessive social obligations, although the current national choice fighters have repeatedly pushed us to this extreme and balanced step. The results of this populist policy were all seen in 2005. Economic stagnation and inflation, which actually ate up citizens’ incomes. Additional budgeting and macroeconomic stability enabled a decision to be made by March of this year on a substantial increase in social expenditure. In particular, Parliament's support has led to amendments to the 2007 Budget Act to increase pensions, wages and raise social standards. Some calculated that by getting Ukraine involved in political instability and shock, the budget would be cut short and that if social benefits were not cut, they would at least freeze their further growth. We endured pressure, a tightening of the political situation, and an adequate response. Today, I'm going to tell you that the revenue portion of the general budget of the State budget for January -- April -- is overrun by 6.1 percent. The government budget exceeded 2 billion dollars. We are convinced that there is no return to the trend of economic growth. The National Unity Coalition and the government have made a commitment to continue their work aimed at improving the well - being of our fellow citizens. We keep this promise. Our people are wise, they understand that the government is not in the camp where the worse the citizens and the economy get, the more dividends they can get. In March-April 2007, the government adopted a number of decisions aimed at further strengthening social protection for the most vulnerable. Let me just remind you of some of them. Reimbursement payments have been increased dozens of times for those affected by the Chernobyl disaster. Thus, as of April 20, this year, children’s monthly financial assistance has been increased fivefold. For children under three years of age who do not attend the aid scale increased from 9 dollars to 49 dollars. For children from 3 to 8 years of age who didn't visit from 14 bracelets to 72 bracelets. There has been a 20-fold increase in the amount of one-time compensation for children with disabilities, families who have lost a breadwinner in the number of persons who have been assigned to the CHAES accident and whose death is related to the Chernobyl disaster. The families who lost the breadwinner were raised from 379 to 7586, the parents of the deceased from 189 to 3792, the children with disabilities from 63 to 1264. From April 1st of this year, 2.2 times from 118 to 264 dollars has increased the amount of extra payments to citizens who regularly perform service duties in the area of unconditional eviction. These are those who are constantly working in the alienation zone, the members of the military and the chief of internal affairs, members of the internal forces of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Security Service, and the State Border Service. A great date is approaching in our lives, Victory Day. On April 25, this year, a decree was adopted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, with a 2.5 - fold increase in the cost of food and medicine for war veterans. Another decision of the government of May 3, 2007 raises the pension rate of 388,000 war invalids and participants in combat. In particular, the minimum pension payments to the disabled of the First Group war will increase to the average wage for those employed in the economic field in 2006. War II is 90 percent for the disabled. Third-group war invalids are 80 percent. Fighters accounted for 70 percent. This means that since June 2007, the war invalidate of the first group who received the minimum pension payment will receive 190 dollars more than in April. Second-group war invalid for 278 bucks. Third-group war invalid, 235. He's a fighter for 177 bucks. Today, about one million disabled people in the second and third groups who do not work receive pension benefits lower than the subsistence minimum for disabled persons. On September 1, 2004, their pensions did not rise. The government has decided since June 1, 2007 to increase these categories of citizens' minimum pension payments: the disabled of the second group to the minimum of living, the third group to an 80 per cent minimum of living. The government has also decided on a step-by-step differential increase in employment rates to increase the average wage in the economy. The government’s decision was essentially based on economic factors. The payroll fund, which is the main source of income-generating for the Pension Fund, has positive dynamics. This has helped the government to raise the minimum wage to increase the amount of pay paid to educational workers and other measures to order pay. Moreover, Ukraine’s economy is developing dynamically. Another source of this increase is the cost of amending the budget for the current year in March, amounting to 2.6 billion dollars. In previous years, pensions increased by 20 percent annually. As of March 1, the first increase in pensions corresponds to 35 percent of the rate of increase in the average wage. [[Government Decision of April 23rd]] The increase touched nearly 1.5 million Ukrainian pensioners. As of June 1, the second phase of the pension increase will be implemented. From 1 June 2007, pensions allocated up to 2005 increased further by 9.2 per cent, and those assigned over the last two years, 2005-2006, by 7.8 per cent. This will allow the increase in pensions to be increased by the beginning of the year. Pensions by 2005 - up to 68 per cent of the rate of increase in the average wage for the last year, after pensions in the last two years, 2005-2006 - up to 51 per cent. This approach is due to the fact that, on average, a citizen who is assigned to a pension by 2005 receives an average pension of one and a half times that of an employee with an equivalent job and salary who retired in 2006. The average pension assigned to the employee before 2005 is 402 bracelets and then 611 bracelets. So together with the increase in pension size, the difference in pension size decreases depending on the date of the pension: the increase will be about 12.4 million. Pensioners, every pensioner gets an average of 40 dollars. Since the first September of this year, the government has planned to carry out the third phase of the pension increase. It will be implemented if changes are made to the budget and implemented from the first June second stage of the single tariff grid. Pensions allocated before 2005 will increase by 6.7 percent, and those assigned over the last two years will be four percent. [[2005-2006]] Thus, the overall increase in pension payments in 2007 is 96 percent and 68 percent of the increase in the average wage in the previous year. What I'd like to point out is that we're focusing on pensioners who have considerable employment and legal wages. Let me give you an example. The pension granted in 2003 from the average minimum wage of 20 years will increase by 32 bracelets from the first of June to 442 bracelets. And this year's pension, which was three times higher than the average, in the field of economics, 40 years will increase by 45 dollars and will be 578 dollars. This group includes workers who are engaged in harmful and hard work with difficult working conditions. Thus, the average pension will increase from 508 in April to 553 in June to 588 in September 2007. The rise in social standards continues. Despite the artificial oppression of the political crisis, the government believes that the potential for further qualitative changes in the social component of the budget is: The amendment to the 2007 State Budget Act, which is proposed for consideration today, is based on a balanced assessment of the economic development and the real potential of the budget with them financially. secure. In drafting this bill, we demonstrate that the government does not speak, but in fact confirms that our primary priority is to increase the welfare of citizens. I'll stop in the key directions. The core resource of 4.2 billion dollars will be aimed at further increasing the salaries of budget workers, in particular the draft law provides for the implementation of the second phase of the single tariff network on 1 June 2007. This will enable a gradual recovery of the gap over recent years in the inter-employment, inter-skilled ratio in the salaries of budget workers. The introduction of this rule will allow for an increase of 33.5 percent of budget workers’ salaries during the current year. From 547 bracelets in January 2007 to 730 bracelets in December of the current year. Taking into account the additional increase in the minimum wage following the changes to the March 15 budget, the increase was about 15 percent. Let me give you an example. When the budget was approved, the average salary size of the budget staff in June was 547 dollars. Taking into account the changes to the budget in March 2007, the official salary increased to 574 bracelets on the condition that the introduction of a single tariff grid from June 1st to June 1st in the average salary size of a budget worker would increase to 667 bracelets. That's 22 percent more than budgeted. There's something specific. Today, the salary of a teacher or a doctor is 1.6 times higher than that of a first - rate worker. [[12 places]] With the introduction of the second phase of the single tariff grid, the differentiation will be 1.9 times. Similarly, running the kindergarten from 1.8 times in the first phase to 2.2 times in the second stage. [[14 places]] Thus, the doctor’s average monthly salary will increase gradually from 786 in January to 1,083 in October of this year. The top category specialists show it on the slide. The average salary of a doctor in today's conditions will rise by 135 in the end of the year and 344 in the case of a second stage of a single tariff grid. A surgeon for 155 bracelets, and in the case of a second stage of a single tariff grid for 393 bracelets. The paramedic for ambulances is 165 bracelets, and the second stage of a single tariff grid is 423 bracelets. By the end of the year, a high school teacher will have paid 370 more, a teacher without a category, 305 more, a kindergarten manager, 419 more, a school principal, 486 more. Thus, not only will the prestige of highly skilled work be increased but also the incentive to honest work. In addition, for the first time in 11 years since the first of May 2007, individual categories of teaching staff have been increasing their salaries and salaries. This will apply to both preschool and secondary and higher education. Let me give you a few examples. 3.9 times the payout for the pedagogical title “Teacher Methodist”, “Teacher Methodist”. There is a significant increase in the salaries of teachers who work in children's homes, boarding schools, boarding schools for children and orphans and children deprived of parental care, in children's homes with a population of children in need of physical and mental adjustment or long-term treatment. [[or]] If today such workers receive a salary allowance of 21 bracelets, they will be increased to 132 bracelets by the end of the year, or 6.3 times. In general, 201.1 million dollars will be spent on increasing the promotion and supplementation of teaching staff. The democratic path that our country is trying to follow today is certainly closely linked to the quality of the electoral process, with the aim of increasing its transparency, avoiding abuses and violations from the state budget, will be allocated $127.5 million to the creation of the primary filling and the primary refinement of the national voter register. The main directions of these costs shown on the slide show the multilayerity of this work. In order to avoid rising prices for coal and coal products and electricity, it is also envisaged to channel 293 million dollars to partially cover the cost of production costs to coal companies. In addition, it is envisaged to increase expenditure on other important areas, to increase the actual level of money provided by the Ministry of Health and the military, to purchase medical equipment and to build a children’s corps in the Institute of Phtysiatrics, the Academy of Medical Sciences, to support the ecologically safe environment in estrangement zones, and to make sure that evictions are carried out. In order to provide local budgets with the necessary resources, the bill includes 2.1 billion dollars -- expenditure on the introduction of a single tariff network, 1.1 billion additional revenue from the income of individuals in connection with the increase in the wage fund is aimed at the introduction of a single tariff network, 170 million dollars -- expenditure on increased increases and additional payments to teachers. Overall, the additional need to increase spending for 2007 amounts to 5 billion dollars. As you can see on the left hand side, 69 percent of the additional expenditure will be directed to the region. What resources may be involved in financing the identified directions? First of all, it's proposed to cut expenses and service the external government debt of the creation of the Non-State Pension Fund at a total of 187 million dollars. Secondly, as a result of economic trends, it is projected that the income portion of the budget will increase by 4.8 billion dollars. You can see the sources on the slide. Two billion dollars, on account of VAT on imported goods, and 1.3 billion VAT on manufactured goods, 0.4 billion dollars, tax on income of enterprises, 1.1 billion dollars, tax on income of individuals belonging to local budgets. I would like to pay attention to all in attendance. Unlike the populist decisions of 2005, when the excessive concentration of resources on social obligations was accompanied by a decline in the pace of national production, our decision is carefully calculated. It is based on a substantial improvement in the basic indicators of socio-economic development in the first quarter of 2007: an increase in the minimum wage and the Labour Fund, an increase in annual expected macro-indicators compared to those in the current year's budget. Thus, the changes to the 2007 budget will not lead to an increase in the budget deficit. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is committed to continuing structural reforms in the economy and in the social sphere, as well as on this foundation, to continue to raise the level of social standards. Society should know that we will do everything we can to ensure that the standard of living of our fellow citizens is dignified. We should not even ask if consenting people are waiting for an increase in wages and pensions until the politicians agree and the next election takes place. I ask you, honourable national deputies, to support the proposed draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for 2007. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u30	Thank you, Mikolo Janovich, for the convincing report and the slides you've shown. They're very interesting. And if they were also placed in the press, it would be very useful for those who want to do the analysis. Now, if you have any questions for the reporter, please write down for 10 minutes. Richchuk, please. You remember, a minute of the question, no more, a minute of the answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u31	Thank you. Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Mikola Janović, I think this is an important step we've taken, raising our veterans, our war invalids, the participants in combat action to 9 May pensions. Even more so, I would like to thank him for his education in the field of health, where the lowest wages are paid in Ukraine. And today we're raising their wages within 350-400 bracelets, and I think it's pretty substantial, and it shows that the coalition doesn't take toilets or buffets, it's working to improve the living standards of our citizens. We would also like to be able to return to the children of war on our next pension. What are the prospects in this category? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u32	Since May 1st, the Government's decree on the disabled of the Great Homeland War, the participants in the hostilities and our Pension Fund will do its utmost to recalculate these pensions and make these payments as soon as possible. And frankly, me and the Government as a whole are proud that we are finally giving these deserving people pensions much higher than the country's average pensions. With regard to the disabled of war, everything will depend on how fast our economy develops. It will develop at the pace shown in the first quarter, so I think we can go back to that in the third quarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u33	Thank you. He meant the children of war, he just said the wrong word because the disabled are now covered by law, but the children of war after the third quarter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u34	Children of war, Aleksandr Alexandrovich, children of war receive certain benefits, but the law can be fully implemented, I have already said, as a result of the work of our economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u35	Menduz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u36	Dear Mikola Janovich! The government's current proposals for raising social standards are evidence of positive economic dynamics, which provide the expertise of today's government. And people take that with understanding, with respect. Please state how you feel to act when the President neglects his constitutional duties and refuses to sign the laws voted by the Supreme Council in full compliance with the Constitution and the Rules. Because today it's not just destabilizing the situation, it's actually depriving people of what they can actually count on today, taking into account the effective work of both parliament and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u37	I can honestly say that working in this environment is certainly extremely difficult, extremely difficult. However, those changes to the State Budget Act are extremely important for both the population and the country as a whole and for the economy as a whole. We therefore hope that the President will sign these amendments to the State budget. In another case, there is a Constitution and must be strictly in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u38	I remind you, in accordance with the Constitution, if the President has not vetoed him during the time spent signing the law, then he is considered to be in agreement with the President and is being implemented as a law, that is, in time, if I am not mistaken, 10 days seems to be 15 days, if the President does not sign this law, he is considered to be in agreement with the President. Please, Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u39	I give you my word. Alexander Alexandrovich! Thurman's word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u40	Turmanov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u41	Dear members of the Cabinet of Ministers! Dear Nikolai Janovich! I would like to express my great gratitude to the Government today on behalf of the workers in the industry. We know that yesterday the Cabinet of Ministers adopted or considered a draft law on the prestige of mining work. We understand that and thank the Government for its support, because it's a matter of personnel policy, that's prestige, you know what our miners are dreaming of today. With a view to stabilizing the coal sector in payment of wages, 293 million are now being added to the draft budget. So thanks to the huge miners. And I propose that the draft budget be adopted to amend the first reading, as a whole, today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u42	Thank you. It's not a question, it's an offer, I understand. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u43	Dearly respected colleagues, the pace of economic growth in four months is impressive, but most importantly, perhaps for the first time in the history of an independent Government has succeeded in converting economic growth into an increase in social standards. For the first time in four months, the Government has come forward with a proposal for budgetary adjustment and the allocation of enormous financial resources that have been made additionally, thanks to the growth of the economy, initially 7.5 billion, now 3.7 billion to increase pensions, wages, social payments. I have such a question, Nikolai Janović, if we can stabilize the political situation in Ukraine, the President will understand that it is foolish to play against his people in the field of social programmes and the trend of economic growth will continue until the end of the year, does the Government consider it an option? In addition, adjustments to the budget for the second increase of 9 months and half, and with additional resources allocated to increase social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u44	Of course, this is the people's deputy Turmanov, who, yesterday, reviewed and passed a law on the prestige of mining work, this law is extremely serious, it provides for a set of measures, including, for example, a reduction in the tax on the income of natural persons for miners, a number of other large guarantees. That is, the law is extremely important and it is developing the social policy of the Government. Therefore, if the pace of economic development, I stress that the word “if” will remain the way we now have it, the Government will certainly come up with proposals in September to further improve the social standards of the population. Everything will depend on how the economy works, how incomes will flow into local and public budgets, and also into the pension fund.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u45	Sulkovsky Pavel Gnatovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u46	Dear Mikolo Janovich! I would really like to thank God at last that if it hadn't been for the provocation of the situation in the state of so-called opposition with the help of our patriot, Mr. President, but indeed, the professional has proved to Ukraine and the Ukrainian people that only this government, so that they don't make separate desert policies, is still filling the budget, the economy is developing. And, indeed, today, we have heard real increases in pensions and wages from your mouth as the First Deputy Prime Minister of Finance. So I would like to make such an offer, Alexandre Alexandrovich, whether it would be possible to call Mikoli Janovich even more today, if we actually came along, if we didn't give these opposition populists, where empty seats in parliament, no pay.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u47	Paul Gnatovich, since you have asked me questions, can I ask you to explain what the desert is? Give him the word he will explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u48	This is what the “deserts” say to us in Western Ukraine, yet the populists, who lie, say to the people, and do nothing concrete.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u49	Right. Because in Central Ukraine we say "blame," it's understandable, and "blade" is the first time I've heard it. Thank you for expanding, let's say, language skills. Please give me an answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u50	I can only thank the Sulkovsky People's Deputy for such high marks, say that we are acting very confidently, clearly, within the framework of what the economy allows us to go through in such a way that the increase and wages and pensions fit into the inflation parameters that we have set. And just to put it simply, we try not to raise prices, not raise tariffs, and so on and so forth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u51	Thank you. Radziewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u52	Dear Mikolo Janovich, your report vividly and convincingly testifies to the high dynamism and high efficiency in the work of the government of Viktor Yanukovic. I'm handing over hundreds of thousands and millions of pensioners, veterans, disabled Ukrainians to the government's deep appreciation for the concern and social standards that the government is carrying out. Please tell Mr. Mikola Janović, you would not be able to demonstrate at this time what losses the economy of Ukraine is suffering and how the situation today has affected the specific figures of the possible destructive position of individual “plotters” from policies that have not even come to the plenary today and have refused to take part in the consideration of such important issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u53	I would like you, the people's deputies, to understand that the Minister of Finance has very much to say, including the trend in economic development. Therefore, I would not like to dwell on the negative effects on the economy of today's political instability. I recommend that you read what is now written about events in Turkey, for example. Here, for example, Turkey's example of how political instability affects the economic situation in Turkey is more enjoyable for me than talking and thinking about Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u54	It's more indicative. Then if you don't talk, because they're Turks, they mean neighbors, so let's read, there's an analysis in the press, on the Internet, please. The unstable political situation has never had a positive impact on economic development, the growth of gross product, and the strengthening of the budget. I don't think it even needs comments. Alexander Vasilovich understands that too. Take these materials, analyze them, and we thank Mikola Janović for the thorough report, please sit down. I give the floor to the head of the Committee on Budgets of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, Vladimir Volodymyrovich Makeyenko. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u55	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, reverend Mikolo Janovich, distinguished colleagues, members of the government! Today, the Supreme Council of Ukraine, together with the government, is considering a consistent economic, balanced step towards increasing the salaries of budget workers. It should be noted that in this difficult time for the country, the government has found ways to fulfill its commitments. We understand that some of the political forces that are in line to participate in the elections do not have this responsibility and the government's effectiveness, but why are people here? We can't let a social catastrophe begin, in which Ukrainian citizens will never be victorious. We need to remember the historical truth, the revolutions are made by the masses, and its fruits are used by the units. That's not what the 2004-2005 event taught us. No, it only takes units to get more power and to get as far away from it as possible. No matter how bad we want to be, the national MPs and the government of Yanukovic, but today only we can resist the discrediting of the legislative and executive branches of power in Ukraine. So, as they say, Caesar's and we have to work. To work to protect our citizens, to preserve peace and stability in society, to improve the standard of living of every citizen. As has already been pointed out, the Government has prepared a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Budget for Ukraine 2007. It should be noted, firstly, that the increase in the income of the budget is based on improving the basic indicators of socio-economic development in the first quarter of 2007 and forecasting by the end of the year, economic calculations, not populist ambitions, have been the basis of this bill. The Budget Committee fully supports this approach. Secondly, this actually gives us reason to say that the proposed draft budget is real for implementation. But, of course, in a stable economic situation and in the absence of an exacerbation of the political element in Ukraine. Thirdly, the left-hand side of the additional resource is perceived, aimed at increasing the wages of budget workers. This is the second year of the government's initiative to improve the well-being of Ukrainian citizens and provide them with decent pay. Four. Almost 70 percent of the additional expenditure is 3.4 billion dollars will be sent to local budgets. Thus, the main issues that are being considered are the budget changes that will strengthen social policy in Ukraine, in fact, the development of the budget priorities has taken place in close cooperation with the members of the Committee on Budgets. It is logical, then, that they found support for the MP’s corps. I'll stop at them in more detail. With the changes to the budget adopted on 15 March this year, you and I, the distinguished national deputies, have further increased the size and maturity of the minimum wage. The bill, which is under consideration today, is intended to increase the cost of the work of budget workers by an additional 4.2 billion dollars for the introduction of the conditions of payment of budget workers from 1 June of this year on the basis of the second stage of the single tariff network. The first Vice-Prime Minister, Mikola Janovich Azarov, has put a lot of emphasis on this issue, and I will only point out that the introduction of new minimum wage sizes and the second stage of a single tariff network and coefficients from the salaries of employees of institutions, institutions and organizations, individual areas of the budget sector in 2007 will allow the increase in the salaries of budget workers at the end of the year, on average, compared to January at 183 or 33 per cent, and for such categories of workers as doctor, teacher, 12 tariffs at 239 or more. Secondly, gradually restore the infringements over the last few years of the inter-mission ratios in the salaries of these workers. Thirdly, increase the prestige of highly skilled work. This is a perfectly logical step, and we support the government in doing so. The bill also foresees an increase in the budget's spending on these important areas: more than 200 million for the introduction of an increase in payments to individual categories of pedagogical workers; 93 million for the partial coverage of costs of value added, coal for the purpose of avoiding uncontrolled price increases for goods, coal and electricity due to an increase in wages; more than 50 million for the increase in the actual level of financial security for persons of the regular primary body of internal affairs, of which 12 million are fines for pension payments. 7.1 million dollars in connection with an increase in the number of Antimonopoly Committee employees. 4.3 million dollars is to increase the military's financial provision for the state Special Transportation Service and to complete its two units. 14 million dollars is to pay for work on the budget of state-owned enterprises implementing the work plan, services to eliminate the consequences of the Chernobyl disaster in alienation zones and in the area of unconditional eviction. More than 5 million dollars in debt to the Ukrainian National Television Company. About 5 million dollars is to maintain an additional number of employees of the Ministry of Regional Development and Construction, the Ministry of Housing and Utilities. 2.5 million dollars is to increase the number of forensic experts from the scientific research institutions of the judicial experts of the Ministry of Justice and a number of other directions. The planned increase in expenditure for 2007 is proposed to be financed by an increase in government budget revenue of 3.7 billion dollars and from local budgets of 1.1 billion dollars, a reduction in external government debt costs of about 27 million dollars. According to the Budget Committee, this approach is justified because it does not foresee an increase in the budget deficit. The committee also noted the need to increase expenditure in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Justice. Thus, the committee believes that it is necessary to increase the level of the financial security, taking into account the contributions made to the Pension Fund for the persons in charge of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, by a total of an additional 214 million dollars. In doing so, a series of steps are being taken to eliminate the imbalance in the financial restraint of the various power structures. In the Ministry of Justice, there is not enough funding for the conduct of forensic technical expertise assigned by expert agencies. During the current year, it is necessary to conduct 9,000 expertise for a total of about 6 million dollars. Therefore, it is proposed to increase the corresponding expenditure of the Ministry of Justice by 2.8 million dollars. As a result of the review, the Committee on Budget Affairs approved the decision to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Budget for Ukraine for 2007, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine under the number 3509 of 03.05. 07 on the basis, as well as the law in general, taking into account such changes. Increase the revenue of the general budget of the State budget under the “business income tax” code by 156 million 800,000 dollars. Increase the general budget of the State budget by a total of 156 million 800,000 dollars, including. Ukraine's Ministry of Internal Affairs to increase by code “the protection of the rights and freedoms of citizens of society and the state from unlawful interference” the protection of public order against consumption costs of 214 million dollars, of which the wage of work is 179 million dollars. The Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to increase by 2 million 800,000 dollars, including consumption costs by 1 million 188,000 dollars, under the code “of forensic expertise”. The Central Electoral Commission to reduce under code 6731050 the “primary formation and primary environment of the national voter register” by 60 million dollars, including consumption costs by 14 million dollars 102 thousand, development costs by 45 million dollars 890,000 dollars. Make appropriate changes to article 1 to the dates one and two. In the second part of article 34, the figure is 1 billion 278 million 148 thousand, 417 million 879 thousand and 10 million 883 thousand to replace the corresponding figure of 1 billion 306 million 601 thousand, 446 million 136 thousand and 11 million 079 thousand. These proposals are made in a letter from our committee, which is given to you. In the end, I'm going to say that the political forces need to unite not for the sake of political opposition, it's been extremely time-consuming, the shared task of all our parties, the blocs, all branches of government -- to improve the well-being of our citizens. And no one should interfere with that. We must ensure that you and I are united in society, the rule of the Constitution and the laws of the state. Please support the Government's draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to Ukraine's 2007 State Budget Act, taking into account the proposals and changes proposed by the Committee. Dear colleagues, there are many discussions now, many political proposals that can unite Ukraine. From this rostrum, I would like to urge us to call on the President of Ukraine that this document is socially targeted, which is expected of us by the state that is waiting for us to vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u56	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u57	Because there's no other way out. We're talking to different counselors, different countries, but the only way out for our state is to increase the well-being of our people, who finally sent us here, regardless of what street Gruszewski or Bankow is, and they pay us a salary for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u58	Thank you. Questions to the head of the committee. Please sign up. Zubko Yuri Grigorovich. After him is Ephraim.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u59	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the government! I'm glad I'm on time for this kind of social policy in terms of veterans. And I'd like to ask you a question, Volodymyr Volodymyrovich, to clarify about the costs to the CBC. So what are the eventually proposed proposals for CBC spending? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u60	Thank you for asking. The language is not just about spending on the Central Election Commission, it is about creating and maintaining the State Election Register and the original formation and refinement of the National Electoral Register. They also have an amount planned for the C.V.C.K. The language says that this money is 50 million dollars. - it's like an offer goes to the local council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u61	The point is that we have adopted the Law on the National Election Register, and it is now funded. One of the entities involved is the Central Electoral Commission, which is responsible for part of the work on the State Register. That's why it's supposed to be funded. Ephraim, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u62	Thank you, Alexander Alexandrovich. Dear Vladimir Vladimirović, I would like to congratulate you first of all on the fact that more and more work is being done as a result of the effective work of the Government. And I would like to see this work grow and increase, and it has been just as pleasant as you are to date -- you're allocating the resources that the Government and our businesses have been able to earn. And two questions. The first question is: I have not seen in the materials that are available, perhaps looked at, increase or increase the salaries of cultural workers. It is my understanding that, to date, workers have the lowest salaries in the area. That's one question. And the second question is, would it not really be interesting for many deputies to see that the funds allocated to the Central Electoral Commission for the compilation of lists would be directed towards financing the illegal Presidential Decree? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u63	Thank you. In fact, in 10 minutes it is not possible to reflect all the changes and additions to the budget. Changes and budget additions include all categories of social workers, both physicians and cultural workers. It's all in our documents. The second is that the Central Election Commission does not use it. You and I have adopted a number of budgets, and the Budget Code expressly prohibits the purposeless use of budget funds that entail criminal responsibility. And I want to talk to the employees, the employees who sign the papers, the managers come and go, and you stay, and you're very careful about your service obligations, and think about what you're signing. I'm sure no one will take advantage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u64	It's not going to be used, and then it's going to be about 8 times less than it needs to be used for the election, so that's it. is controlled by both the Budget Code and the relevant structures, including the Court of Auditors and the Prosecutor's Office, and not only. The executioner asks a question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u65	Since the electronic system gave me the right to ask a question to the committee head, I'm going to ask him a question on the committee, and now I'm going to pass the word to the head of the Committee on Health Care of the Bachelor Tetian.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u66	Aunt Dmitrovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u67	Thank you very much. Dear Vladimir Vladimirovic, many doctors and educators have been looking forward to a salary increase for many years. And these constant multi-thousand, multi-million treatments have finally been heard by the Government of Viktor Fedorović Yanukovic, who, as of 1 June of this year, introduces the second phase of a single tariff network for budget workers, which means that the salaries of a doctor and teacher will increase by 300 bracelets, a surgeon of a higher category, by almost 600 bracelets, a teacher by 420 bracelets. Thus, doctors who received 1,500 dollars by 1 April will receive 1,900 dollars by the end of the year. This is a very significant increase. And.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u68	So what did you want to ask? Let her finish her thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u69	3.5 million budget workers are saying today: very much thanks to the Government, it is a long-awaited increase in the single tariff network that the medics have been waiting for. I think today, from this day forward, the work of the medics will be prestigious. I would also like to ask that in Russia there has been an increase in the wages of primary health care workers five times higher than in previous years. Can it be hoped that Ukraine will see such an increase in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u70	Thank you for asking, Aunt Dmitry. Indeed, the government is taking all steps to meet, including those in the medical field. And you and I spent one night sitting together on both committees. As far as you're concerned, you mentioned our neighbor Russia, six months ago, from this rostrum, we talked to you about Ukraine having a historic chance, for the next three years, and we were planning and proposing to discuss our budgetary policy three years ahead. So in Russia, a government project for 2008-2010 has already been submitted to the government. We can't do that because of the political situation that it is. But despite all the difficulties we have, we will work, and we will fulfill our obligations to our electorate. It's hard to say how many times this is going to happen, but we're not going to stop.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please. We have time to discuss the Rules and the voting of the agenda. I'm asking you to sign up for factions first. And let the MPs sign up who wants to make a statement. We have time for that. Please. The first speaking member of Hara, I understand, from the Party of the Regions. Please. From the faction of “Regions. ”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u72	Dear colleagues, I would like to say immediately that the soul is pleased when you consider in this sessional room such bills as the Cabinet of Ministers for today. And I would like to remind everyone that, after the leveling of skilled and unskilled labour, the narrowness of our so-called tariff network, at the beginning of our independence from Ukraine, it was in 2004 that the Januković Government took the first step towards restoring justice and promoting the prestige of highly skilled labour. At the same time, it was decided to initiate the implementation of the first phase of the respective inter-laboratory salaries of the lower part of the single tariff network. And today, thank God, we have looked forward to the fact that all of us, as members of the people and our committee in the past, have repeatedly called on the Government to continue this practice of raising living standards and introducing a single tariff network. This is an important step in the implementation of the main concept of the Janukovic Government. That is, overcoming poverty among workers, encouraging highly skilled work, and increasing motivation for work. It has already been said that it is a pleasure that, within a virtually short period of time, the wages of a doctor and a teacher increase by one and a half times that the doctor today, well, the average, let's say, gets 840 bracelets, gets 1,146. The teacher gets 786, he gets 1083. And if a senior surgeon gets 1,380 today, he'll get 1,906, a high-class teacher gets 11,59, he'll get 1,589 bracelets. Very pleasant steps, especially before the 9th of May, are the great celebration of ours, which increases the minimum pension, especially for the disabled of the Great Homeland War. For the first group, it will be 1,041 bracelets, which represents 100 per cent of the average wage of workers in the sectors of the economy, which is what we have dreamed of for many years in the walls of this Parliament. For persons with disabilities, the second group is 90 per cent, i.e. 937 bracelets, etc. It is a pleasure to see an increase in government support for the coal industry by 293 million, which will enable price increases to be maintained, because for the coal industry there is an increase in prices for materials and equipment. And in order to hold those prices, there is a grant of State support. Expenditures have been increased in support of environmentally hazardous zones of alienation and the unconditional displacement of the population from there. To establish a register of voters to conduct normal democratic, transparent elections. And an increase in the payment of staff cash benefits. I believe that this bill must be supported in the first reading and adopted as a law and wish to our Government, despite the distasteful political life, to curb the rate of economic growth and to raise the social standards of our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u73	Thank you. The word is derived from the faction of the Socialists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u74	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, the distinguished and distinguished electorate. The very question of increasing the income of the budget and its distribution, today what is happening in the hall, is a vivid example of how stable the coalition itself is, and how effective the government created by the coalition works. I would like to welcome today, this is today, indeed, a socialist government that runs such broad social programs. Dear friends, we're not spending the budget with you. Think about it, they're yelling today, they're creating this kind of political tension. And we don't have a sequestre, and today we're increasing the income part of the budget and channeling it to social benefits. We've heard enough with you, I mean, first of all, the coalition, we've heard from the leaders of the opposition Timoshenko Yulia or, let's say, from Our Ukraine, that the coalition has betrayed its constituents. So I'd like to ask, what does the coalition do today is not what the voters promised? Has our people been promised a coalition to increase social standards, including pensions, wages, and other ways? Yes, it may have been a betrayal today, not by the coalition of its constituents, and it is necessary to look for a reason, but it has been betrayed by the opposition and those who are actively serving them today. I'd like to see our doctors and teachers. Please tell me when the doctor’s salary today is added to an average of 840 to 1146, almost 300 dollars. Is it the betrayal of doctors today, our medics? Or when more than 300 bracelets are added to the teacher’s salary today? I ask, are we betraying our entire teaching or are we taking care of it? Or is it when we talk about a doctor in a higher category who has a salary of up to 500 dollars and also a teacher in a higher category? I ask again if we are betraying their interests or if we are defending their interests. Or maybe we've betrayed the interests of the first-group war invalids, who are only being added to the pension now literally for 200 bracelets, the disabled of the second-group 300 bracelets, the disabled of the third-group today 300 bracelets more added to the pension. Please tell me, the distinguished pensioners, the coalition and the coalition government have betrayed you, have you today been betrayed by the coalition government and the coalition, rather, concerned about your health, your life, your welfare, your social security? I'd like to give you an example where today's retirement for the participants in combat is only increasing from 419 to 729 during this period alone. Is it betrayal again or is it something else? So perhaps there are today our bankruptcys of political opposition to which nothing is left to hide. But I mean, they don't like our opponents.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u75	Please continue. You can talk five minutes from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u76	Today our opponents from the BUT faction, the faction “Our Ukraine” do not like the action of both the government and the coalition that is happening today in the hall. They understand that the larger the social guarantees of our voters, the more the disabled will be protected, the more the child will be protected, the sick, the students, or all of our people will have social support, the less they will have social support. And that's why they were in such a hurry to destabilize the situation so that the rise wouldn't just take place. Nothing in them, the masters of these and the ladies, has worked out, the social guarantees of our population are increasing. And I'd like to make one more point. This is where Mikola Janovich Azarov said that raising social standards would have an enormous impact on economic development, because these costs that people get, they're going to buy food tomorrow, they're going to dress up, they're going to benefit from different services and so on. It's living money that's going back into the economy, so it's going to be an opportunity for the economy to grow to continue with the social guarantees. The only request is for the opposition, for the President not to interfere with the coalition, for the government to work, and for all of our voters to have decent social guarantees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u77	Thank you. Zybenko Peter Stepanovich has the floor, excuse the Alexandrovska Alla Alexandrovna from the faction of Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u78	Thank you. After familiarizing myself with the draft budget changes and hearing the report of the First Deputy Prime Minister of Finance of Azarov today, I really thought about the impressive figures and of course all these figures will be felt by our people. But we understand very well that the economy has some momentum and I am very afraid of this disappointment after today's hearing in the House of Parliament, people will certainly want to hear it tomorrow, after the coming weeks or at least a month of change. I therefore wish to say that, despite all the difficulties that are being created today in the way of the Government that we have created here in this room, the difficulties that are created today by the wars of the President's Administration, these figures show that we are on the right track with you. The results of the Government's work in the first quarter of this year have enabled it to say that within a short period of time it was able to successfully implement the people's trust loan. For the second time, the Supreme Council has been considering proposals by the Cabinet of Ministers to increase social expenditures, including those directed to increase the salaries of budget workers. More than four billion Grieves are additionally allocated to these needs, for an increase, including, since the first June, in the salaries of budget staff. And this growth, as we understand it, is more than 25 per cent given the increase in the minimum wage for the issue that we have already resolved with you. Since the first days of its work, the Government has decided to increase the income of Ukrainian citizens. It is known that the Government's decision of 11 April this year has significantly increased the amount of allowances and allowances for educational staff. More than 200 million bracelets this year must be directed only for these needs. The Government's trust is evidenced by the growth of the economy that you and I have witnessed throughout the Government's coalition of national unity until the beginning of the war of decrees. We Communists initially said that increasing income should be a priority. We said that the real investor of our economy, our national economy, should be the people. These actions of the Government confirm that this message can be implemented, implemented and implemented. It is now known that an increase in wages has led to an increase in the annual budget of the Pension Fund by almost 5 billion grevens. This means that it has been possible to increase the payment of pensions to war veterans, pensioners and persons with disabilities. The inequitable pension gap between those who have retired before the adoption of the new law and those who have been credited after the adoption of the Act is gradually eliminated. And today, in the figures of Azarov, this was well illustrated. All I am saying, as stated in the Government's report, is reality. As a result, the elected National Unity Coalition “The Strategy” has proved to be the right and successful Government. The alternative to the naked "orange" populism, we have placed professionalism and responsibility multiplied by capacity and perseverance. We are only at the beginning of the Government's strategy for the development of Ukraine's economy. And we cannot help but be alarmed by the obstacles the President has put in place on this path, as I have already said, by the war of decrees, which reminds me of an attempt to stop the locomotive from moving on. In any way, this is not done, as we know the famous character in the story of Chekhov, has discovered the groves, but we know that as a result there will be one “catastrophe”. Who needs this, I think the answer is that the people of Ukraine don't need it, it doesn't need an anti-crisis coalition, and it doesn't need a government that works today with the full impact of its forces and, as you can see, shows a good result. The responsibility for such “innocent” fun, in the coffeehouses, of course, must be inevitable. And I think that people should think that it is time to call for the President's responsibility and at least his environment, which is not his way. Therefore, while supporting the draft law amending the Ukrainian State Budget Act for 2007, I believe that it is necessary to warn the President of the dangerous games that undermine the economy of Ukraine and the people of Ukraine who are suffering from penance. And I have this proposal. We have heard here a reasoned report from both the Government and the budgetary committee. In order to fulfil this interesting function of responsibility to the people of Ukraine, I propose that these materials be made public today in the Azarov report, and the materials that have been presented in the report of the Chairman of the Macedonian Budget Committee, published in the central press, as widely as possible, on our plans, on our intentions, and on what further commitments we make in the coming period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u79	Thank you. Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich of the Socialist faction, followed by Miroshnichenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u80	Dear colleagues! Bondarchuk faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnitzkin. I don't know if we're being listened to by the radio and whether the TVs are watching, because unfortunately, there's only one TV camera in the bed that's too big. It probably belongs to our parliamentary channel, but I think we'll find another way to make today's decisions. Because our citizens of Ukraine need to know that today’s government, created by the coalition, does not cause a gas, meat, sugar, gas crisis, and so forth, and consistently fulfils its commitments in this area, which, for the second time in this year, is taking the initiative of the government to make changes to the budget aimed at strengthening the social component of our expenditure, that the left-hand part of the increase in expenditure goes to social needs. Thus, article 1 of the Constitution of Ukraine is filled with real meaning that Ukraine is a social state, that almost three quarters of the additional expenditures are transferred to local budgets, and so local self-government is being filled, again, with real meaning, by strengthening the financial basis of self-government. And we will have to bring to a logical conclusion only the political component of reforming local self-government, that is to say, to accept the necessary set of changes to the Constitution in order to give local self-government real, full authority. I'd just like to fill in or offer these moments. First. Yesterday, as Head of the Committee on Social Policy and Labour, I asked the government to pay attention to the need to support material workers in cultural and artistic institutions, today my colleague, Efraemov Alexander Sergiyovich, asked this question. In fact, 13 percent of cult workers work part - time — 0.25, 0.5, 0.75. In fact, this painting has a very large expanse, if there's 0.4 percent in the Mikolai region, then there's 42 percent in the Plains. So it's a few tens of millions of dollars. The other one. I think we're going to go back to the War Children's Protection Act, and on the basis of the first half of the year, we're going to be able to increase the number of articles in this law that will work. And third, about the return of undervalued citizens' savings. I think we'll find, Mikola Janovich, you promised these.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u81	Give me an hour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u82	I remember that when we first made changes to the budget, we agreed that 330 million were there. The money is the debts of previous governments, and today's government is taking over. And so we're going to show our real intentions to go back to the problem of returning valuable savings. What's more, we will be in a position to exercise the right of parliamentary control at the next committee meeting just to listen to the return of valuable savings to our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u83	Thank you. The word is given by Miroshnichenko Yuri Romanovich of the Party of Regions, followed by Sadowy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u84	Dear voters, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the government! Yuri Miroshnichenko, Party of Regions. I would like to draw the attention of all Ukrainian citizens to the fact that all the political parties, all the MPs, were talking about the need to move to Europe as they campaigned for their political parties in the elections. They talked about the need first, about raising the social standard of life first of all, of ordinary Ukrainians. And today we have a precedent when the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic proposes to raise the social standard in Ukraine for the second time. Who is concerned with this social standard and its promotion? First of all, ordinary Ukrainian citizens are talking about raising wages, dealing with a problem that has been discussed in Ukrainian society for many years, namely: tariff grid issues, fair pay for workers of different qualifications. I'm not going to repeat the numbers that have been echoed today by First Deputy Prime Minister of Ukraine, Mr. Azarov, because the rise in some categories is going to be at odds, not as a percentage, but at the same time, people will also have a significant sense of themselves, on their incomes, raising the care of the state, on the part of the government, on the part of the coalition and all the institutions of power about their lives. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that also pensions in Ukraine will be increased considerably. What accounted for this increase, since other governments had increased pensions and salaries? I'm drawing your attention to what Mikola Janovich Azarov said. Not empty money, not the money we received from privatization, but only because of the growth of the economy. Only by the results of why the government didn't go to blackmail from the opposition when they said raise expenses before the trend was traced. It's the first quarter today. Today, when the government analyzes the economic trends, today the government sees that the rate that has been made for the innovation and investment type of economic development has a positive impact and today it's going up. That's not the last promotion. And what conditions do you do that in? When political destabilization is actually carried out by the President, when sabotage is very often carried out by local executives, when negative signals are given to investors. At the same time, the government is working, not paying attention. Dear colleagues, I invite you to support the proposals that have been made today and to ask the President to stop participating.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u85	Well, I think there's no sound here so you don't bark at the President. Okay. Yes. Please give the floor to Sadowy Mikola Ilchi of the Socialist faction, deputy head of the Committee on Education and Science, and then speak from the non-factional Władymir Mikolajovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u86	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The socialists support the bill and we will all vote in a friendly manner to increase the real income of the people of Ukraine, so that the prosperity from day to day improves so that children can be provided with both food and clothing and according to textbooks, and the entire population feels that we are still going to do better, although much more has not been done. This coincides, by the way, with the programming principles of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. The socialists are loyal to their pre-election promises, and we will continue to do our utmost to make social, social, social, social, and other social indicators grow in our people. That's why we're in the Supreme Council. Now in this room you can see pretty well who betrayed the Ukrainian people, it's the leaders of BUTU Timoshenko, Winsky, it's also from "Our Ukraine" Kirilenko and their entire company. And you can see, pretty well, who cares about the Ukrainian people for their own good, and who thinks only for their own ambitions. I'm asking the people of Ukraine and with such a request that we get clear enough with the fact that, starting today, there will be a political crackdown on increasing the well-being of the people that the Supreme Council has done together with the government -- these are the pre-election battalions that we're going to start. That's why it's all a lie and I'm asking people to deal with this kind of political crash. Of all the socialists, I also express my gratitude to the people who work, to all the producers who have made the economy grow, who have increased their income by 2 billion dollars. These manufacturers were able to raise salaries for teachers of schools, teachers of vocational education, health - care workers, pensioners, disabled persons, and so on. The task of the government, the Supreme Council, remains, in my opinion, to maintain the pace of economic growth, no one else has been given. Next. We know well that people’s well - being depends not only on income but also on the pace of price increases. That's why both the Supreme Council and the government have to ensure that prices rise so much that they're far behind the growth rate. Otherwise we can just turn into populists. So just so it doesn't happen, I suggest you write this one down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u87	Thank you. The word is Platinum, followed by Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u88	Thank you, Mr. Head. Dear fellow MPs, dear Ukrainian people! Today, as head of the Committee on Economic Policy, I would like to point out that an increase of almost 5 billion dollars in the state budget and its targeting social problems is not a populist step that we have had the opportunity to see in the fifth to sixth years, and this is a planned budget move, which is an increase in the economy that has enabled us to get additional funds and send them to the needs of nearly 17 million Ukrainian citizens. I didn't make a mistake. It's people who are the least insured, who have higher pensions, who have a salary. You and I promised teachers, doctors, but unfortunately we didn't do much. Today’s move confirms that the President of Ukraine has not made a mistake. And I thank him for acknowledging the establishment of a democratic majority in the Supreme Council on the basis of three factions and the fact that he has nominated Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic as Prime Minister of Ukraine. It was the right and only faithful candidate that confirmed the composition of the government, the actions of the government that we see today. And we're seeing a software growth in the economy. As I associate with many of the world's leading economists, I hear almost every day that the development of the economy of the young state of Ukraine is now approved both from the east and from the west of our country. Both the Russians and the Europeans, even the Americans and representatives of the Asian continent, agree to assess the development of the economy, the programming economy of Ukraine. I want to stress again today what we have today's 2007 Social and Economic Development Programme. We have a five - year government programme by 2011 and a program by 2020. This is the result of what we, the majority of the Supreme Council and the government of Viktor Yanukovic, have done today. I want to congratulate the Ukrainian people on the upcoming holidays and tell you, people good, it's not a gift to you, it's what you deserve, it's what we owe. Thank you. With a feast of you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u89	Thank you. The word is given by Sulkovsky Paul Gnatovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u90	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished Mikola Janovich, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, colleague! I'd like to remind myself and you today, I'm very often in the district when I come to, I'm going to a reception, they're meeting voters, they remind me of my words, I'll remind you today. Remember, when we approved the 2007 budget, when I accused the government that the government had prepared the 2007 budget not for the sake of opposition, but for the sake of Ukraine, the people of Ukraine, which today confirmed the example, the fact that I had already seen the inside of the so-called opposition, who knew that if this draft budget came into existence, it would really be a corpse for their politicians, becoming a dead body in their political activities, which they did, and today, like everyone in the chain. And they're from Parliament's workplace, and they've started manipulating the people of Ukraine for their further lies. That is why they cannot continue to exist in Parliament today, because it is practical for them, if they allow them to continue working for today’s government and coalition, there will be virtually no Ukrainians outside the poverty line by 2011, that’s what’s scary for them! That is why they are provoking the situation to date in order not to allow the economy or Ukraine to develop further. We are all fine witnesses today when the so - called environment of Mr. President moved him to announce in 2005 and the sixth year of the village. What did the government of Yulia Volodymyrina Timoshenko and Yehanurov do about the support of their President? They destroyed the final village and destroyed not only the villagers of Ukraine but all the Ukrainian people in power. That's why there's only hope today, and that's why I want to ask the people of Ukraine to get together and give them the opportunity to work on today's coalition and government by 2011, and only here should there be a wonderful future for the Ukrainian people! If this does not happen practically in Ukraine, it will continue to be chaos and worse.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u91	Come on, let's get the man on that note, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u92	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that for the first time in years of independence, the Janukovich government in 2003 and the fourth year practically revived the subsidy for the development of socio-economic development of the regions and villages, gasification began. I'm just going to give you one example of how in two years, as a deputy, I was able to bring gas to 60 of the population in the Plains. What did they do in 2005 and the sixth year? The government of Timoshenko and Yehanurov had virtually withdrawn the subsidy 10 times. And once the government of Yanukovic has returned, there has been a 10-fold increase in the budget in the social and economic development of the village. Gasification is restored, the villages are revived, and they hope that life will be better every day! But it's a situation that's practically happening in society today, and unfortunately, when the situation gets worse for the President and his environment, it's not good. So the people of Ukraine are practically very concerned today, and I think that in the coming days both the President's Administration and the President's environment will understand, and the people will practically express their position and give them an assessment. Not only for them today will their children remember that their parents and their relatives wanted to make this beautiful Ukraine out of its Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u93	Thank you. You're a little bit on the subject of budget, but I understand that the emotional state of Paul Gnatovich is something that sometimes goes beyond the subject. But it's natural. Let us sum up our discussion. There was an offer to print a report by Mikola Janović in the paper. I think it should be done, perhaps even by making it public as a document itself, with a footnote such that it is a document for the President's signature. So that people can compare to what's actually happening. First. Secondly, note this -- and this was highlighted by the speakers -- that the rise in social guarantees is made on the basis of income from the economy, from production and does not foresee any increase in the budget deficit. It's a big deal, by the way, it's easier to fight price increases, which means increasing people's real well-being. And that's why the government needs to make sure that it can be done, let's say, the way they do it in the coal sector right now, other groups of goods take care of price maintenance, it's going to ensure that the real income of the population increases. There were several times in the performances that the opposition did one, two, three. Let's not touch the opposition, because we have no opposition. We have opposition, it's power, it's executive power, it's the heads of administration of all the levels that are part of "Our Ukraine." Once again, 24 of the 25 heads of district administrations appointed by the President's decree represent one political power-- not those sitting here in parliament, not by the coalition. This is 99 percent of the heads of district administrations that are being convened today to organize elections because they don't like the gradual economic development and stability of the state to those who have lost access to the weights of personal wealth. We have to understand that. And this is not about any interest of the people. So it's not about the opposition, it's about the opponents, it's about the opponents who just want to get to the power that's complete, because they don't think it's logical for them to have power inside the state in places and not have it in the center, and have the prospect that we're going to end the political reform. And today they were saying, two thirds of the increase in income to the budget is passed on as subsidies to local budgets. This is the direction that we need to move towards decentralization of power and ensuring the exercise of power at the expense of financial, organizational, material and other possibilities. That's what society needs, that's the European way. We're looking for it, and we're getting sticks in the wheels, because when the centralization of power is absolute, then we can do whatever we want. Then we can, by the administration, plant corruption, and say, "We fight corruption." I think the Ukrainian sayings here are quite so typical when they say that "the thief's hat is on fire" or something else. We need to worry about that, of course. I hope the President will sign this law. He can't not sign. I know that there are assholes in Kiev who say there is no Supreme Council. There are, I heard what's going on. There are, by the way, some dumpsters in the Administration or the President's Secretariat who are trying not to sign a document for the President. But what I'd like to say is that the President will give them an evaluation by signing this law. How else can we do this? Well, you don't have to go to this standard of the Constitution, which stipulates that if in 15 days he didn't veto or make his own proposals, which is, in fact, a veto, then the law is considered to be signed. Now let him draw his own conclusions. And please, I'm addressing you today, in Kiev, a few tens of thousands of citizens, Kiev guests from all over Ukraine, meet with them, talk to these people, let them go armed with this information. Let them know that they were really in a period of historical history for our nation. When they talk about what the coalition is doing, what the government is doing, and what those who are saying that inefficient work is going to do, it's going to make them see, take these steps. Remember Leonid Glybov long ago said about the fly that rode out of the field on the horns of the ox: “We, too, say, eagles.” Oh, that's how they plow, we see how porous it is. So I ask you very much, to be restrained, to respect the position of different people. They may not like the authorities, but they may dislike political forces. The authorities never like it. But what do people want? They want to do, to get a salary for which they can make ends meet, to educate their children, to treat them, and so on. We're going to meet these people's wishes. This is our pre-election commitment and the government’s action in this regard exactly corresponds to the fulfillment of these commitments. I would like, under the understanding of the meaning of this step, to vote today with the remarks made by the head of the budget committee on the draft law both in the first reading and finally, and to allow the government to continue to work effectively in the interests of the welfare of the people. I put to the vote the project that the government has put forward with the comments made by the Committee on Budgets is generally put to the vote. [[12:48:46]] For 259. Decision taken. Thank you, thank you. [[Applause]] And let's thank the government, let's let it continue to work. Thank you. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal to consider the issue, registration number 3424, and then the “Variance” there is an hour under the Rules, and we can use that right. A draft regulation on the establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission to review the activities of the National Council of Ukraine in the field of television and radio broadcasting and its departments is proposed. The project by Olena Bondarenko. And you have this material. He's completely. Please, please, Olena Anatolyevna, on the rostrum. And let's figure that out.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u94	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues. The need to create the work of this commission is determined by what we have today with our radio spectrum. My personal assessment, and I am the initiator of this projectf decree, that our television broadcast is now being developed, not thanks to the work of the National Television and Broadcasting Board, which has actually become a punishment authority. I believe that this low assessment recently made by the international agency Freedom-house and called our media partially free, including the “deservation” of our National Council for Television and Broadcasting. [[& Tiles]] In fact, the National Council, as it exists, poses a threat to both the freedom of speech and the information security of the country. I think you've all been able to read an explanatory note to our ruling. There are more than enough claims that promote television organizations for the work of the National Television and Broadcasting Board. And this small amount of what we have managed, without even being part of this commission, to find or share with the heads of national broadcasters and regional broadcasters. I would add that the situation of our airmen, whom the Nazis put in, has led them to believe that any minor criticism of the work of the National Council has resulted in immediate sanctions. What is the statistics on unplanned checks? Think about it. In 2004, the extracurricular checks carried out by the Nazis in relation to Ukrainian television organizations were only 20 in number 20. 2005-40. And 2006: 82. This suggests that unplanned checks are used as a pressure mechanism, a mechanism to encourage television organizations to do what the National Council will say. Moreover, the oil in the fire has fuelled the fact that, in the past year, the previous composition of the Supreme Council has adopted amendments to the National Council Act in that the Supreme Council cannot now change its four without looking back on the President. This leads to the fact that the National Council is now completely out of control for Parliament. This means that we are seeing violent Ukrainianization, the politicization of television and so on. I can tell you a lot about the claims made to the National Council, about its work, about the organization of television. I'd like you to support this order. The only thing that came today was the proposal to replace the representative from the faction of the Party of the Regions of Dmitry Voloshenkov to Alexander Andreevich Vasiliev. I would also like to propose this amendment to the draft regulation and to support it. As for our radio companies, I would like to address them with the courage to bear all the documents that confirm the violation of the National Council's work, since this regulation contains a moratorium on planned and unplanned checks by the National Council in order to protect our television companies, the radio stations, from their gross interference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u95	Thank you, Helen Anatolyevna, for a good meaningful speech and a report. Have a seat, please. Alexander Sergiyevich, can you accept these documents? Sure. The Regulatory Committee may speak. It's prepared according to the Rules, first. And second of all, it's got the predicted quotas -- I'm reminding you -- quotas for those parties or factions that call themselves opposition, so they don't get offended that they've been forgotten, they're supposed to be here. I put to the vote a draft decree establishing the Temporary Special Commission registration number 3424. There's a vote coming. [[12:54:33]] For 258. Decision taken. Thank you. Now I have a proposal for you, before we announce the “Victory” proposal. I say again, you know, I'm joking about who we're dealing with. So I would ask that you be ready to meet for a meeting when there is a need, within half an hour or so. I'm implying this because it's the weekend two days ahead. On Monday, most likely, we will gather in the morning, we will give an additional announcement on this subject. And now I'm announcing the time for "Rizzna," so please sign up. The recording took place. I'm only reminding you in the order of the announcement that all the information materials in the budget changes will be kept by every deputy in the faction. So once again, all the information on budget changes you're going to get in factions. Komar has the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u96	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Today, speaking from the rostrum in the “Variance” I think that we will have no other subject but to discuss again, it is still possible to say that in order to reach out to the President, to reach out to the people around him, that he was in the country of lawlessness. And this worthlessness can't go on, we can't go on with it, we can't go on with it, we can't go on with it. What we've done today is a big deal, by accepting the changes to the budget, by allowing the people of Ukraine to feel what the government is doing, to feel that we have a country, to feel that there is a nation, is the Supreme Council, which has formed a coalition government, is a government that works well, it's all there is. That's not enough for the President to understand and become involved in the legal and constitutional field. All that remains to be done is to be called on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u97	Thank you. Bondarczuk and Silchenko are handing over the right to play Bulby. Please, six minutes, prepare for Blackwolf.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u98	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, distinguished radio audiences, of course, today's theme is one in different, it's a situation in the country. But first of all, when we analyze it, we need to understand clearly the reasons and who should, and who should, and who should, be more loyal to what is happening today in Ukraine. In this regard, I would like to remind you of the following. In December 2004, the adoption of the Act on Amendments to the Constitution, in an interview with the magazine “Expert”, explaining, by the way, the need for political reform, the head of the Subcommittee on Constitutional Reform, Ukrainian deputy Victor Musiak said so. In the original language, “The President is intimidated by many. People who are close to him and who act on his behalf are actually starting to run the country without any responsibility for their actions. The heads of government have become full-fledged princes. These people are not trying to change the system of power; their presence has become the most profitable business. And there's more. This was stated by Viktor Lavrentiovich Musiak: I know my former colleagues in the faction “Our Ukraine” that they will not allow the adoption of a law extending the powers of local councils. But that is the essence of political reform. Even before the 2002 elections, the Socialist Party of Ukraine was under the slogan of the need to change the system of power. In our seven pre-election commitments, we wrote the first paragraph “to change the system of power”. As consistent in their actions, the Socialists made it possible to support Yashchenk in the 2004 presidential elections by committing the last one, as well as the faction "Our Ukraine", which he then headed, to vote for political reform, for changes to the Constitution, to sign an appropriate treaty in connection with this with the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I remember how difficult it was for us to do that, and I recall the sharp discussions at the political session that Victor Andrievich Yushchenko attended, and in the presence of all members of the political tradition of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, he gave us the word to support the course for political reform. Without this change to the Constitution in 2004, it would not have happened. You remember that both Yushchenko and Our Ukraine faction supported political reform under the pressure of socialists and Alexander Moroz. Yushchenko remembers well whose initiatives cut off his present powers. But even in such a way, they are enough to guarantee the Constitution. Yet he wants more privileges. And so, along with Timoshenko and Lucenka, who, by the way, did not vote in favour of political reform as well, Mr. President is now showing such contempt for the previously signed agreements and agreements. But this should only add to our desire to bring the matter to a logical conclusion. This should be a decree, I mean coalition, national unity, which is what the people of Ukraine need right now. That is what distinguishes us from the representatives of the so-called opposition, from the pro-presidential forces, from the representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko Block. The language goes either we return Ukraine to the time of authoritarianism, or we really will establish Ukraine as a parliamentary-presidential republic. And I call upon all of our constituents, I call upon the representatives of the National Unity Coalition to be the only ones in the desire to ensure the democratic, progressive development of our state. This is the prospect of the people of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u99	Please, Taras Blackwall, faction of the Party of the Regions, prepare for Kalashnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u100	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues of the Ukrainian National Deputies. Today, with such little interest in the press, in an attempt to silence this event, the Supreme Council of Ukraine was adopted, in my opinion, as a completely historic bill, adopted definitively, in general, on amending the Law on the State Budget of Ukraine, in which, for the first time in the years of independence of Ukraine, a truly powerful, extremely important contribution was made to the social programs of increasing the welfare of our citizens, increasing pensions and salaries, average pensions and wages, taking into account all inter-mission relationships. This was done for the first time honestly and openly, not by withdrawing funds from local self-government, not by “washing” social insurance funds, but by keeping Ukraine's budget. This bill, I want to stress, is the main reason for the President's decree, the President's previous decree to dissolve the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Not increasing the coalition to a constitutional majority, everyone understands that this will not happen, and this will not result in any legal consequences, no change to the Pro Kabmin Act, namely, raising social benefits and salaries by this coalition, and this government was what was most feared by the call that came together today in opposition and which today took full control and, in fact, made the hostage of the President of Ukraine. Reasons two. One, they're afraid of rich people. They fear people who can think not only about how to feed their children, how to live a day, but who can think and have their hands untied to think and strive for the future of their nation. This is feared by any dictatorial regime, no matter what color it takes. And the second. After this law has entered into force, and I want to see how Victor Yushchenko will not sign it, how he will demonstrate contempt for the rights, for the social rights of his people, when he enters into force it will be much more difficult to lie. And I want to mention two lies that are coming today. You have heard Julia Timoshenko claim at her European Square rally that this is just their pressure, their efforts today we are adopting social bills in connection with the approach of so - called elections. There will be no successive illegal elections, and we adopt those laws exclusively because we made commitments during the elections, and we keep these commitments. There is a parable among the people: the blacksmith forges, and the frog lays his foot. And another point that I want to focus on is where the money comes from. We got the money out of the government budget honestly when 9.5,000 dollars were given to the government of Yulia Timoshenko for the birth of a child, gave social funds, stealing from the same socially unprotected citizens. More lies like that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u101	Thank you. Although it is better, Taras, to see how the State Budget Act will be signed, it will be more pleasant. Yes, please, Kalashnikov Oleg, prepare for the Garden.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u102	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Dear fellow citizens! Oleg Kalashnikov, Party of Regions. Dear compatriots, just before the great celebration of the 62nd anniversary of victory in the Great Homeland War, I would like to first turn from this rostrum to the officer corps of our independent state. Dear friends! Dear colleagues! It's up to you, the officer's corps has always depended and today depends on the independence of the state, the statehood of Ukraine in general. So I appeal to you, follow the rules of the Constitution of Ukraine, do not obey criminal orders, in any case do not succumb to provocations, slanders, insults and filth that you today receive from some politicians who, apart from their personal desire, desire for revenge, do not have any basic humanity and order. Today, when our people are preparing for the celebration of the great victory of our parents, our grandparents, these very rematched politicians, inciting Ukrainian society, want to conduct a review of this historic victory. And I hope that it is you, the protectors of the country, the people in the pursuits that today will receive unprecedented support from the professional government of Ukraine led by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, from the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which is working in full stock of the decent, loyal Ukrainian national deputies, members of the coalition of national unity, on your part, the defenders of the country, today, depending on what Ukraine will be tomorrow. I am very pleased to address you. I am convinced that it is you, an officer's corps, who will do everything to ensure that there is peace in the country regardless of the force structure to which you are now connected. I address you as the sons of great victory as the people who depend on the future of Ukraine, because we need to raise our country together today, together in victory, for development. And I am very sorry that, to this day, the great victory of the Soviet people in the Great Homeland War is being destroyed by these regents in other countries. Let us join together, together, let us say no attempts by the fascist rematch, a rematch of forces that do not want the development of Ukraine. For the Constitution, for the people, for our national authority, which we have chosen in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u103	Thank you. Mikola Sadowa, please prepare Popescu.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u104	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished TV listeners. Lately, a number of letters have been sent to my address and probably to my colleagues and colleagues concerning the style and methods of the Ukrainian Pension Fund's activities throughout its vertical route, starting with district administrations, the principal district offices, and completing the Ukrainian Pension Fund. The goal is that, in view of the fact that many of these companies have been destroyed, the documents have either been burned, or they have disappeared to a large extent and have not been transferred to the relevant archives. And then you get, for example, that for the rest of your life, two milkmaids went to one farm, one farm, there were groups of cows, and one nurse is a pension, and the other one isn't. That's exactly what happens to tractors. This is a general problem that applies to all of Ukraine. And as for the specifics, you might say that for example. In the Ulyanovo region there is the administration of the Pension Fund of the Kirovograd region. And so far, the train continues with the assignment of a retired tractor driver Blidar Vitali Ivanovich and his wife. Despite the fact that the head of the Pension Fund in the Ulyanovo region works as a former economist of this cologne and knows Blidarov's marriage, and her husband was the head of the collogage, and he also knows where he worked and how much his wife worked as a nurse, and Blidar Vitaly Ivanovich himself is a tractor driver. With regard to the Kyrovograd Regional Pensions Authority in the Kirovograd Region, Polandszuk is in charge of this process, where they went to complete falsification, falsification of documents. And even as an MP, well, a national MP who was on the move was asked to sign a forged protocol. So I am also addressing the Ukrainian Pension Fund, which is enough to deceive people, and I am addressing the Ministry of Labour and Social Protection at the same time, and there is a situation throughout Ukraine where many villages have lost their businesses and the documents have not been placed in the archives. So I call on the responsible workers to come back to this question and develop a mechanism and technology to enable people to be granted an adequate pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u105	Thank you. Ivan Vasilovich Popescu, please. Get ready, Miroshnichenko instead.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u106	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Great colleagues, great fellow citizens. I was approached by a citizen of Marina-Hanna Nucevna in the 1960s, a resident of the village of Medieval Zakarpat district of Rahiv district, a disabled first group by sight. She addressed us and wrote these words: “Today there are many sponsors who help in cases like my own. But I was in 1996-1997, when I was healthy and working with Mr. Kosuk Yuri Anatoliyovich, who currently owns an enterprise called “Miron’s bread product” under the advertisement “Our Ryba”, located in Kiev, Wanda Vasilievska Street, 7a. I worked with him for trust. Since then, he has remained in debt for $20,000. Since 1999, I have tried to contact him, but he has been avoiding me. In 1995, I urgently needed an eye - saving operation, and our head of the district administration, Mr. Saik, contacted him and made him count 10,000 dollars from that amount. But nothing has happened since then. I ask you to help me contact him so he can pay me back to do the surgery." As Ukraine’s national deputy, I made an appropriate parliamentary call, even telephoned the receptionist, the secretary, but to this day I have no answer. But we've got information that's behind him from people who are very close to the Presidential Administration. That's why I'm addressing Mr. Kosuk and reminding him that under article 90 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the authority of the Supreme Council ceases on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of the new calling, and the people's deputies are also working until that moment. Therefore, if you do not respond to a parliamentary appeal, we will appeal to the law enforcement authorities to give them a proper assessment. The second point I'd like to pay attention to. A bridge in the village of Kamenka was opened in the region of Glubecka that was repaired after its destruction as a result of the flood. Deputies of the Bosco Olga Vasilovna District Council, who is a member of the Party of the Regions, did not even give her the floor, even though she raised the question first and repeatedly. Instead, we read a telegram from a member of the Strategic Party, who had never once raised the issue of the Montenegrin region from the Supreme Council’s rostrum. There are many such examples. A few days later, they want to open the final bridge in the village of Lower Petrovica, to which the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, under my insistence, gave several million dollars, but, as of that time, I am confident that the local administration will do everything in order to talk about the Party of Regions, about those who give the money, did not sound, instead they are yelling that they are doing everything at no cost. Gentlemen, take it easy because sooner or later you will have to answer for the lie! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u107	Thank you. Yuri Miroshnichenko, please. After that, the cheerleading will perform – Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u108	Dear voters, dear colleagues! Yuri Miroshnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions. Before I speak, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome all the veterans of the Great Homeland War to the festival that will be celebrated by the entire Ukrainian people, the whole of Europe and the whole world. We have defeated fascism, we, your children and grandchildren, are grateful to you for your feat and we will strive to bear the honor you have given us to live in Ukraine. [[Applause]] Now that I'm back in my speech, I'd like to touch on the issue that is being discussed today by all Ukrainian society: the President's decrees, in particular the President's decrees on the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court and the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court, and today the President has appointed a second judge of the Constitutional Court. In expressing our legal position, we come out of two thesis: the first thesis is that there is no contradiction in Ukrainian legislation if there are no decisions of the Constitutional Court on the unconstitutionality of any legal acts. The second is that legal acts complement the legal regulation of social relations. That is not only the Constitution, but also the laws and other legal acts actually create a legal field that the President should use when making his decisions. In this context, what does the legal rules on the release of judges of the Constitutional Court tell us, as is the case under the legal procedure? Indeed, according to article 106, paragraph 22, the President appoints and releases a third of the judges of the Constitutional Court, but under such a procedure: first, if he has information that the judge has violated his oath, he is obliged to transmit this information to the Constitutional Court itself. The Constitutional Court, in paragraph 63 of the Ukrainian Rules, conducts investigations by its permanent commission and then concludes by directing its decision to the Supreme Council. The Supreme Council, according to Ukraine’s Constitutional Court Act, terminates its mandate, and only after that does the President issue an order for a judge to be released. Similarly, judges are appointed. There's a procedure there too. It foresees, in addition to the fact that the President has the right to appoint, according to the Constitution, consultations with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u109	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u110	This consultation is provided for by the Ukrainian Constitutional Court Act in paragraph 1. Sorry, in article 6. Then the President of Ukraine issues his decree. This decree is then reinforced by the signatures of the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. After that, the candidate takes an oath by entering the mandate. by taking office in the Supreme Council and only then is he considered a judge of the Constitutional Court. Accordingly, we see that the decrees on the release of the judges of the Constitutional Court of Stanik and of the wheat court are not in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine and the decrees on the appointment of judges of the Constitutional Court are not in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u111	Thank you for your clarification. Please, Sulkowski gave you two minutes, so he'll have a little less. Three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u112	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. No, I didn't pass my minutes to my colleague. This is the second national MP who's been handed over. I guess so.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u113	We could do our own.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u114	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Dear Ukrainian people! You know, today I'm speaking out of this rostrum not just with my thoughts. I was asked by the people’s deputies from Western Ukraine. And we are concerned with the people of Western Ukraine about what is happening today in our beautiful Ukraine. Today, the Ukrainian people could never have imagined what might happen today in society with Ukraine. Well, there was no hope in the Ukrainian people and European countries under the guidance of Kuchma, which they did not recognize, and practically the people wanted change in Ukraine, something for the better. For the best, to really feel democracy, to build Ukraine with the most modern and beautiful methods in which countries in the world are being built. And you, colleagues, are seeing the Ukrainian people together today. Who could have thought, especially in Western Ukraine, when supported by President Viktor Andriovich Yushchenk as a Democrat, that, in fact, Ukraine could take that road and evolve in a civilized way, as many civilized countries of the world have achieved. Today in Western Ukraine, residents are worried, I don't know, about the voters who supported Viktor Andryovich Yushchenka: What will happen to Ukraine? And, indeed, as of today, Ukraine is going through a very serious crisis every day. But I think the mind will win. I think both the President and his environment will fear one another: that they have performed miracles today, made the whole world laugh, where today the European Union is watching and not looking at this situation in Ukraine. This indicates that they are responsible for their actions sooner or later. So I would also like to urge the President, his environment to stop and think about the beautiful future of Ukraine, not to lead Ukraine into Utopia and irreparable deeds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u115	Thank you, Pavel Gnatovich. It's just that you've got a novelty. “The people of Western Ukraine” is something you have come up with. You think you're doing great, you've done very well. Please, Patchyek Sergey, prepare the Mordecai.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u116	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished people of Ukraine, I am an MP from the “Regions” faction of Pachesuk. I would like to address you, honourable voters, with specific suggestions. Today, the situation that has been created artificially in Ukraine is particularly favourable to the opposition. For example, in the Chercas region, I want to say, the opposition is doing everything it can to step away from responsibility, from what it should bear for the calculations in the work. The district administrations, and we know that in the Cherkas region, the administration is first of all orange, puts pressure on the heads of administrations and district council members to take decisions in favour of the President's decree to dissolve parliament. I'm surprised why they're deputies. such as Karpuk, Cherniak, Kulasha, Tkachenko, and Lukyan are voting in favour of such decisions. For example, Lukian, who is the head of the state-owned company Zlatodar, who in 2005 did not know that there was a grain, listed the mythical company 3.5, more than 3.5 million dollars and stole them. And only after I turned to the BSC when the audit was sent did the BSC administration respond in 2007, which is the case at the hearing. Where were you before? So, in order to go away from being responsible for this, I think the deputy of the Lukinets District Council is voting for the dissolution of the Supreme Council in order to leave responsibility. And looking at the work that's being done in the area today, and instead of the 40 million that it takes to finish the broken villages by gas, only 1.9 million dollars are being sent to the area. This suggests that the oranges did not work on these issues. And instead of creating an image for the state and society, it is the district government that directs its efforts to destabilize. Because spreading the village is one thing, and creating the conditions for gas to appear in every settlement in Cherkaskie, Smilyansky, and Umansk regions, it takes work, not talk. To be completed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u117	Let me finish. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u118	Finishing. On the eve of the festival, I would like to welcome all the veterans of the Great Homeland War, who, without feeling sorry for their health, have created conditions for us, and we are in front of you forever and will do our utmost to make life in Ukraine better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u119	Thank you. Please, Leonid Mordovian.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u120	Leonid Mordovets, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Sumska District Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters. In my speech, I would like to address the problem of the political responsibility of those political powers that, at the national level, consider themselves to be opposing, and at the regional level, they have authority both within the executive branch and in the representative bodies of local self - government. A year later, elections were held not only to the Supreme Council but also to local authorities. What is the result of the activity of the orange political forces and their whitehearted allies? I can also give you an example of this, especially the Suman region, which is the home of the President. It should be noted that in less than 2 years, there have been 3 district administrators in this area, and today, according to work, particularly in the last year of these political forces, the areas are in last place. This was discussed by the district council members last Saturday. Of course, representatives of both the state and our Ukraine are trying to translate everything, the full responsibility of the crisis that exists at the centre, forgetting their solidarity with the President's Secretariat, their senior political brothers, that they are creating this crisis by their actions. What kind of footage these two years before management indicate. In particular, the Velikopisian District Council recently assessed the activities of the heads of government, the departments of the district government, which came to power after February-March events, more specifically, the change of power in 2005. In most cases, after an expert evaluation by the relevant authorities of the district administration and the circuit board’s session, they were assessed inadequately and offered to release these posts. This once again tells us what leaders, what levels came to power. And of course, today’s leadership in the area is also not an exception.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-04-m0.u121	Thank you, dear colleagues of all those who signed up for the performances in various ways had the opportunity to make use of this, we will conclude. I hope we'll still have the opportunity to welcome our veterans, because as you and I have made a decision, we are working on a special regime and we will work with you as soon as possible next Tuesday, and the best welcome to those who have provided us with the victory I think today was our decision to significantly increase social benefits. This is our respect for the long work and feat they did 60 years ago. At this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council is over, I thank those who have stayed for the rest and I promise you, if you ask me, you'll get another word. Good-bye.
