ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u1	Good morning, Honourable MPs, guests of the Supreme Council, representatives of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, April 17th. According to the calendar plan, plenary sessions of the Supreme Council are held. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. Turn the "Council" system on, we have a roll-up. [[10:00:05]] Ready to work in the 262 National Deputies Session Room. The morning session is open. I also want to say that today there is a meeting of the Constitutional Court, which is considering the submission of 53 national deputies to the President's decree of April 2. There are now 18 judges of the Constitutional Court. The court began its work. There are more than 30 Ukrainian national deputies in this session, and so you realize that this is happening in some way, let's say, in the session room, but it's a detail that's less important. We can find a way out of this situation. However, right now, I would like to take this opportunity to say hello on your behalf to the birthday of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Isajev Leonida Alexiyovich. Hello. [[Applause]] Which is today's Jubilee. Let us greet him with longevity, creative, legislative, and simple health. It is not only among the deputies but also among all those who work with it, who work with it, who communicate. And welcome to the birthday of Trinduk Yuri Grigorovich, he is, in fact, twice as young, but nevertheless worthy. Let's welcome him. In accordance with the Rules, Tuesday begins with statements by the full representatives of the factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages, and so on. I'm asking you to sign up. I'm asking you to sign up. The factions have registered. And now we're just going to do it on our own, because we're going to have 15 minutes and 15 minutes. Please sign in. Five minutes from the factions, three minutes from the deputies. Okay. The word is derived from the faction of socialists by Melniczuk Mikhailo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u2	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, radio audiences, TV sets, and prominent media representatives! On April 11, a decree was made at the government meeting to establish the size of increased salaries, wage rates, and additional salaries for certain types of pedagogical activities in relation to the tariff rate. This is all done to improve the system of work in the field of education. I'm going to the Ukrainians today. Listen to the figures and steps the government has taken in relation to you. And this is only because the government is working professionally, that the Ministry of Education cares about education and not only does it work. I think that the important steps to meet people are the style and method of working for today's government. In commenting on the decision, he would argue the need for such a decision with several examples. So far, the teacher, the teacher, the Methodist, the manufacturing master of 1 category, the teacher-organizer received 1 to 17 bracelets for these titles. One bracelet or 17 bracelets. Now they're going to get 10-30 percent of the base rate. On the average, it's going to be 70 to 160. This is an increase of about 6 times. The group’s manager was paid three bracelets for his work. For example, we understand how hard it is to work hard, and it takes time. Three bracelets were given to the teacher for this. Now the supplement is increased by 31.5 times or 15 percent of the base rate, it's essentially going to be about 100 bracelets, that's 99 bracelets. The teacher had previously received 76 copies for the direction of a gun track or a weapons storage room. Think about it, 76 copies! And that's because they don't have much chaos in the country, they don't work in this room, they storm the voters with various statements that elections should be held immediately, and so on, they didn't turn to their time when they had reason to do that when the Education Minister Stanislav Nikolayenko, with his legislative initiatives, with his appeals to the government, talked about this situation in education, he had little support. 76 bracelets. At the same time, today’s supplement will be 10 percent of the base rate.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u3	It's a cop. Mikhail Vasilovich, a penny, not a bracelet. 76 copies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u4	76 copies. Let's say 66 bracelets. The leaders of the sports sections receive a supplement about five to ten times what they were. If former gymnasium teachers had received no more than eight or nine dollars, the supplement would now be up to 200 dollars. What's very important is that for teachers of physical culture who now have a gym, gymnasium or athletic hall, the pay will not be one or two bracelets, as it used to be, but 10 or 15 percent of the base salary. The factory’s masters had previously paid a 60 - dollar bracelet for the factory’s management, and the supplement would now be 99 dollars. For the appointment and use of foreign language to heads and educators of vocational education and preschools, the rate has been increased fourfold and will be between 40 and 70 bracelets. There are many positive examples that can be cited along the lines of education. This government decree has been in effect since May 1st by 50 percent, since January 1st 2008 completely. GDP is rising, economic performance is improving. Then tell me, who needs this chaos? Who Needs Early Elections? What elections are being prepared today for those who have held, say, their assemblies and so forth? We think it's an election.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u5	Thank you. The word has Baldirev from the faction of “Regions”, so written. Who, who? Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov, please. Instead of Baldwin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u6	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people, distinguished representatives of the media present! Today I have written a statement addressed to the President of Ukraine on the composition of the powers of the President and member of the Central Electoral Commission. Here's a statement. This document will be submitted to the Office of the President shortly after my statement, and the President will be required to submit the Supreme Council in accordance with existing legislation, and the final decision on the resignation of any member of the Central Electoral Commission will be decided in this room. You know, in 2004, the entire Central Electoral Commission was illegally retired. And thank God that on 2 April this year, the entire Central Electoral Commission is restored and functioning today. I want to say that I do this in many ways in order not to give any small occasion to the opposition against the various kinds of provocations that are being prepared, the various points around the Central Electoral Commission and the members of the Central Electoral Commission. This is for the sake of our political power and for the benefit of our entire State, for the sake of peace in the country. Remember the wording in which the Central Electoral Commission was resigned: “political mistrust”? So I want to tell you with all my responsibility: there is no concept of “political mistrust” in any code or law. Unlike our opponents, we have always done and acted exclusively by law, and I hope we will do just that. You know, after that, the President of Ukraine tasted and fired not 15 members of the Central Electoral Commission, but 450 members of the Supreme Council resigned. Of course he did it illegally. Dear colleagues, I don't think it's very easy for the opposition to listen and see the MPs leaving her ranks. But it's probably probably probably a bad thing. But this does not allow for the dissolution of the Supreme Council. How can we demand respect for and respect for the Constitution when the guarantor of this Constitution, the President of Ukraine himself, is on the path of a systematic violation of existing legislation. And it's done almost daily. Example. A rude and unceremonious invasion of the judiciary, an independent judicial system. This system is truly independent and may become independent. And it probably doesn't have anything to do with it today, because the President himself, I stress, is systematically violating the law, and he is dealing with judicial matters. The President is constantly issuing his decrees on the judicial system in violation of all existing regulations. So today he's transferring the judge from one court to another, today he's firing one judge, the other judge. Today, there has been a new institution of acting leaders of the judiciary. You know, it's very dangerous. It's very dangerous. We know what this is all about. We know what it can lead to if the President comes forward with his own criminal proceedings in time. There is a Constitution, there is some legislation that needs to be implemented. I want to tell you that it is very dangerous for the President to draw false information that has been published throughout the country. Just recently, a few days ago, the President announced that the Chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Justice had entered the court, had taken the seal, had taken the keys from the safe. I want to tell you, during this incident, I wasn't even there in court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u7	10 seconds, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u8	What's more, I want to tell you that these illegal regulations are being issued, and the President is talking about those who are preparing. A meeting of the Supreme Council of Justice was held on 4 April this year. And when Vasil Onopenk, President of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, was asked whether he had submitted a motion for dismissal by the Chairman of the Pecher Court, he said during the meeting that he had given no representation, although the decree contained a reference to the presentation of the President of the Supreme Court. I think the Supreme Council is capable of halting the legal injustices that we have today in our State.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u9	Thank you. Matthew from the Communist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u10	The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear colleagues, dear fellow countrymen, today we have, unfortunately, good reason to say from the Parliamentary rostrum that the political situation in the country after the Yushchenka anti-constitutional decree on the timely cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council has reached its climax. Ukraine, out of the bad will of the head of state and his beloved friends, has become a huge rallying camp, an arena of political opposition, divisiveness, and accounting. Orange propaganda methodically undermines social consciousness, tries to convince everyone and everything that it is the only way to save the country, to preserve its integrity and unity, are parliamentary elections for the term. According to what has been done around this lamentation, at any attempt to put the country in a deep state, the factories of this ungrateful campaign have forgotten about the economy, the spring solstice, the rebirth of the village, the urgent social problems that need to be solved in the interests of the vast majority of the people. And when the President claims that he says he sees no reason to make the socio-economic situation worse, he is, in a mild sense, deceiving. He does not want to realize that political instability inevitably leads to social and economic shocks. Let me name just a few numbers and facts. In the last two weeks, since the promulgation of the notorious Yushchenk decree, the government budget has been reduced by at least 700 million dollars. In a number of regions, prices of bread - making products as well as of oil products, raw materials for which attention had been paid to those imported in November of last year. In the eyes of the entire country, the President brutally turns his hands around the Constitution and the laws in force, seeking to finance the illegally declared parliamentary elections. Today, from this parliamentary rostrum with information from the Cabinet of Ministers, Mikola Janović Azarov will speak. He's probably going to name a lot more, unfortunately, an inconsolable statistic, which is undoubtedly on the conscience of those who provoke socio-economic instability, trying to get Ukraine into an adventure called the early parliamentary elections. And this is all done under the power of the President, who has long forgotten his 10 steps to meet people, replacing them with 17 steps to meet Mrs. Y. with her dissatisfied good ambitions. Instead of seeking compromise and reconciliation, the Head of State took a course to further exacerbate opposition and lawlessness. This is also evident in yesterday's meeting with the leaders of the power structures, and it turns out that in our country it is the function of the SBA, the Attorney General's Office, according to Yushchenk, to demonstrate to 48 million citizens, and that, by the way, today only 46 citizens who have the law and the fundamental right to vote have to be implemented in Ukraine. Is it possible to be more hypocritical than that? What cynically trampled the Constitution into making such statements would challenge the international community? He also publicly demonstrates ignorance about the state of affairs in his own country. But if the guarantor of lawlessness and chaos had not tried to play with muscle, as if he had not indulged in the ambitions of Timoshenko, the Tymoshenko, the Tymoshenkos, the Cyrillics and the Lucens, if they had not all gone mad together, the society had already convinced itself of the flashes of the circle, in other words the brilliant anti-constitutional removal of the highest legislative body of the state. We are confident that the anti-constitutional coup will not pass. And on the verge of that, all the healthy political forces, the informed and honest citizens of Ukraine, will stand firm and stand firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u11	Thank you. The word Chechetov has instead of Bertash, so they agreed. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u12	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished compatriots, respected colleagues! We are all members of the great nation together. We are responsible for the unity of the country. Silence today is a crime. Silently carrying out all the President's demands is a double crime. Because today people are not simply taking away their choice in 2006 -- the choice that the country has made in honest parliamentary elections -- today people are trying to take away their own destiny, their own destiny, their own welfare and their future. The political opposition provoked by an unfounded decree by the President of Ukraine to suspend the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on a permanent basis has caused serious tension in society. Today, this tension has reached an climax, and it could just turn into an uncontrolled descent of Ukraine into a social confrontation and an economic divide. We're against this, we want permanent reelections for the sake of individual policies, we want to live and work, we want to work for ourselves, we want to work for our family, we want to work for Ukraine. Today, the President could still change the logic of the political process in the state. We hope that he will carry out his mission of guarantor and tranquillity and call off his own decree. And we are convinced that this is what society expects of it. The Supreme Council continues its work in a normal manner, we work and wait for an honest, fair and impartial decision of the Constitutional Court. We all understand that if we do not stop legal chaos today, if we allow ourselves to act in a revolutionary capacity, chaos and disorder will enter every home tomorrow. In the country, there will be neither legal nor moral authority, and Ukraine itself will become a black hole in the very center of Europe and all because individual political powers see no other way to gain power. We address them: “Dear ones, you had a historic chance, you had two years. And what did you remember about the people? The crises, the betrayals, the accusations of each other. So stop today and do not interfere with your work. We will not give you Ukraine and the future of the Ukrainian people. We say “no” to the recovery, “no” to the violation of the Constitution, “no” to the division of Ukraine and Ukraine”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u13	Thank you. The name is Kaletnik Grigory Mikolaiovich. Follow him, Kuzmanko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u14	Gregory Kaletnik, faction of the Party of the Regions, Winnitzkin. Respectable compatriots! Honorable Predestination! Statement by the Coalition for National Unity. “Today, 17 April of this year, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine will examine the constitutionality of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Cessation of Powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the appointment of parliamentary elections for the term.” It is no coincidence that just before this important event, the pressure on the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is increasing in order to prevent legal decisions from being made. A week ago, the judges of the Constitutional Court assigned to these positions by the President's quota, and those elected by the recommendation of the President's bloc "Our Ukraine", at the same time because of the media, made a statement that they were under political pressure. There was no specific fact, no appropriate reference to the law enforcement authorities. But that was one of the main reasons for moving the case to seven days. At the same time, on Monday, April 16, on the eve of the Constitutional Court’s meeting, charges were brought against Judge Stanik’s mouth-to-mouth duty as head of the Ukrainian Security Service. This indicates that the task force is taking all steps to implement the long-developed scenario of the collapse of the Constitutional Court. Meanwhile, all these so-called facts have been refuted by the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office. It is no coincidence that today the President of Ukraine has made a number of human resources decisions to replace the heads of some of the leading departments of the Ukrainian Security Service, which will further strengthen its influence on this structure, will make it a reliable tool in achieving illegal goals. Similar attempts to influence the court have already been made by the orange team in 2004 for the Supreme Court of Ukraine. The National Unity Coalition stresses the inadmissibility of such actions in relation to the judges of the Constitutional Court and demands that all necessary conditions be created for its unhindered work and objective decision on the matter, since it is not only about maintaining the rule of law and domestic peace in the State but also about Ukraine’s international authority and respect for it on the part of the world community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u15	Thank you. Kuzmenko has the word. He'll be followed by acidov instead of Maibeard.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u16	Sergey Kuzmenko, Zaporozhye, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Respectable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, honorable presidency! I'd like to stop at the length, as it were, of a topic that has been very often spoken by the President of Ukraine lately. He says that the decree is mandatory for execution, that all who fail to do so will be held accountable. But tell me, why does the President or his environment never speak of anything else: and what responsibility will those who will now begin to comply with the President's decree, including spending some money on the execution of this decree, and then the Constitutional Court recognizes an order that does not correspond to the Constitution? Who and how will be responsible for the actions that will be taken to execute the unconstitutional decree? Why isn't the President talking about it? Because he feels that such action will remain unpunished? For him, as long as he's president, maybe he's intact. But for everyone else, by no means. And I would like all those who try to comply with the decree without the Constitutional Court's decision to do so to have that in mind: they are not to be touched, they have to be answered. That's the first thing I want to say. I would also like to highlight the following. One of the President's most recent statements is pianist, and I can't say otherwise, to all the parties he's offering to give up the immunity of MPs for a period of time. I'd like to say that the President, probably because he doesn't have accounting education, doesn't know the right: no refusal of parliamentary immunity, even if we all write statements and blood on these applications, will allow any law enforcement officer to do anything without the decision of the Supreme Council to give consent to the responsibility of the national deputy, no prosecutor to do anything without the decision of the Supreme Council without consent. So it's a purely pianist step that doesn't carry on legal reasons. And the last. The president says a lot about that. And his environment is that we have to go through the tests of national trust and go through the elections for the term. I just don't understand why the President is putting himself above such a test. In my opinion, today's sociology tells us that the first person to face popular trust tests is the President of Ukraine. And there is no reason to refuse to hold presidential elections for the term. Let the people say he trusts President Yushchenk or not.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u17	Thank you. The word is Kiselov instead of Maibeard. We'll go after him. Malishev instead of Korsakov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u18	Respectable compatriots! On this stand, I was forced to answer the Attorney General's Office's response, which came to the MP's appeal to five deputies and to the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order, in which the Supreme Council requested a review of the decision of the Attorney General's Office on the cessation of criminal proceedings against the Ukrainian gas-resource consortium and officials, through which they washed themselves with the only energy system in Ukraine, they washed away billions of dollars. [[This is Timoshenko Corporation.]] And I could read you that answer. This suggests that the volume of work is very large and takes a lot of time to study, so they are asked to extend the study period. In this context, I have a question: why does the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine cover budget robbers? Why today, according to the material received by our U.S. Attorney General's Office in the Lazarus case, in which Timoshenko is recognized as an accomplice, does nothing about it. I am convinced that the President of Ukraine's decree “On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council” is aimed at preventing the punishment of “wolf in the law” and the distraction of society, the attention of society from these resonative matters. And you. Billions of dollars have been stolen from the nation's budget. And to the end. When we wanted to set up a commission, a temporary commission of inquiry by the Supreme Council, to figure out what had happened to President Yushchenko, with President Yushchenko's candidate before the vote: whether it was poisoning or something else, you remember that the acting director of the U.S. He said that in the near future, I read literally: “The FIS will soon inform society of the real state of the investigation. ” So I propose, Alexander Alexanderovich, that we call here the Attorney General's Office and the Ombudsman himself, and let them give us an answer as to why they're covering the criminals today, and why, today, nutamichenko didn't report to society, as he promised, what happened to President Yushchenko's candidate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u19	Thank you. Well, actually, so that I don't get to the bottom of this piece of your statement, let's give a protocol order to the lady on the preparation of the appeal to the Attorney General's Office and the director's office to make such information available to Parliament. I think it'll be quite right. Malishev has the word. And then the last of the Blackwells, already using the MP's needs and what he signed up for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u20	Vladimir Malishev. Party of regions, Donetsk. Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues, respected compatriots! For the first time in this rostrum, I do not act as a lawyer but as a politician. In my life, the events of 1989 will always remain when I, as a participant in the Academy of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the USSR, had the opportunity to listen and see the great man of the twentieth century, Andrei Dmitryevich Sakharov, who lived as I assigned him nature: in mind, honour and without fear. Many of his remarks made him wonder, for example: “Democracy is essentially a positive phenomenon, but it is free to understand differently; it cannot be brought from the outside but must be raised within the country”. Today, those words are more relevant than ever. In the situation in Ukraine as a result of an unconstitutional decree, not only I but also the majority of the population remain indifferent. Mr. President, you call yourself a Democrat everywhere, but your actions speak otherwise. Not only the parliamentary coalition, but also the majority of the people don't understand your decree to disband Parliament. Listen to your conscience and cancel your unconstitutional decree. This will show not only the country, but also the world that you are not a Democrat in words, but in fact. You seem to prefer the non-progressive ideas of Volter, Montesquie, Berdiev, but you are a devotee to Makiavelly and use the principle of “split and rule” set out in his book, “The Lord”. Please let us all understand the words of the French philosopher who said: “The laws are given so that the strong cannot do whatever he wants, that justice may become a stronger weapon, and that it may be shameful to fight with their fellow citizens.” For our politicians, this postulate must be the philosophy of life. Who today needs a strong Ukraine, an independent, non-importing country equal to many developed countries in Europe? I answer, no one but ourselves. We have to fight and not give up every day for this. I address you, respected politicians, dear compatriots: we must build our beautiful Ukraine today, tomorrow will be late. The descendants won't forgive us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u21	Thank you. Taras Cranwell, do you insist on your word? Don't insist. Let's sum up the short talk we had. Yesterday, you were obviously watching a discussion on channel “1+1”, when two former judges of the Constitutional Court were Alexander Mikolaiovich Martinenko. Mironenko and Mikola Ivanovich Kornienko discussed the current political situation and its causes. Well, first of all, brilliant constitutionalists, I've known both of them for over 20 years, and I think they were a model for those who claim to be judges today in the Constitutional Court, and generally for those who practice law. He was very interesting. when he spoke about the hierarchy of legislative acts in the context of the 8 and 150 articles of the Constitution. He was talking about the hierarchy: the basic law, that is the law in general, then the Basic Law -- the Constitution, then the laws, then the Supreme Council's decrees, then the President's decrees, and so on. You notice that today, all the time, there's a social awareness of the fact that the President's decree is above all else, and he said there should be no other normative acts. So you mean that the Supreme Council's rulings have a norm, not an executive. And the President's decree is acting within the laws and regulations of others and the Constitution in defined powers. This is the difference that matters, and we need to pay attention. That is, we respect the President’s decrees, we are obliged to obey them all if they conform to the 19th article of the Constitution and the 60th article of the Constitution. And if not, they are not required to do so. That's what the Basic Law says. Once again after yesterday's discussion and all the discussions that took place in the last days, yesterday I held a public council meeting with the Head of the Supreme Council, where there were representatives of all the public, the most famous public organizations in Ukraine. They all come to the conclusion that no one is afraid of elections, we are not opposed to elections and early elections, including. We are against the illegal elections that are organized in violation of the Constitution. We can't let that happen, because we're going to go a long way, we're going to destroy the state, and we're going to develop society by political and other signs. You can't let that happen. We see that interference with the work of the Constitutional Court has become clear. Today, it is clear who intervenes. How can Ukraine's Security Service go to the Constitutional Court on charges against one of the judges, the reporter. Even if there was something there that was worthy of the attention of the Security Service, investigation must also be done according to the Criminal Code, the principle of judiciality must not be thrown into the media by a case that is not completed by an investigation and is essentially a mystery to the investigation. On the other hand, there's another element. If this is about bribery or something, it's not the Security Service's jurisdiction, it's the prosecution's jurisdiction. This should be known by lawyers, especially those working in the Security Service. I appreciate it, I think I have reason to say it myself, because in this case as a citizen, like the pressure on the Constitutional Court. It's an unacceptable thing. I wanted to report that the next day, as Head of the Supreme Council, I am invited to meet with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And the rush of the media, I don't know where, published a statement that it's not possible or something, it's not. Yesterday I received an invitation from the president of the Vanderlinden Parliamentary Assembly on this subject. And I think that by speaking out there or communicating, if not in a sessional session, but by communicating with the leadership of the Parliamentary Assembly, I will confirm once again that it is insane that there are no opposition representatives in the session room today. It is not normal that this is how events develop and the streets get involved in political divisions. That's not good. But we will do our utmost to return to the normal work of Parliament on the basis of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and on the basis of consultations and compromises. And the opposition will return to the hall, and no one will be pleased to hear that they were engaged in other activities. In the end, it was useful for them to find out the relationship between themselves and today by holding assemblies, in some ways demonstrating that they did not believe in the possibility of an early election. In any case, our Ukraine's decision to publish lists in alphabetical order today, including all the deputies there, and in just 10 days there will be a review of the issue of rankings on the lists, shows that they know perfectly well, the Constitutional Court will decide on the unconstitutionality of the President's decree, which probably means that they won't have to argue with each other, because everyone wanted to include it. And in the same way, the leader of “Our Ukraine”, we give him due, he has done wisely by preserving unity in the faction, at least for a period of time. So we're once again looking for compromises, we're using this compromise or finding compromise in the Constitution and there can't be anything else, and otherwise there won't be, I wanted everyone to know. Thank you for the kind and accurate assessment of all that is happening today. [[Applause]] Yesterday at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, the MPs spoke on the question of hearing information from the Cabinet of Ministers about the consequences of the socio-economic situation of today's political situation. In view of this, we have invited Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov to the meeting for this information. I think we'll build with a slight deviation from the Rules, if you don't mind. He does the information in time, he asks 10-15 minutes, he makes the information, and then he can answer 5-10 minutes on the question, if they're from the MPs. Is there no objection? Then I don't put this procedure to special vote, we think it's okay. Mikola Janović Azarov is invited to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u22	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Regrettably, at a time when our country is having a difficult time in its development, and I am fully responsible, aware of the responsibility for every word I have said and for every conclusion I have drawn. However, the task of the Government is to give Parliament an objective picture of the situation in the country. I am responsibly stating that the Government is fully monitoring the economic situation and has sufficient means and capacity to address the most complex issues at this stage. Our government, led by Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, has been working for eight months. The first few months went towards stabilising the socio-economic situation. We have adopted a country where the execution was empty and destroyed. No coal and gas reserves were needed in gas depots and coal warehouses for winter. The financial situation of the country, especially our large enterprises, was unsatisfactory. Food, food wheat, had been fully exported from the country in the absence of yields in 2006. Before their departure, our predecessors abruptly raised electricity and gas tariffs without bringing housing and utility tariffs into line, without providing the population or budgets with the necessary funds and compensation. In many cities and areas, pre-election passions continued to flow and there was virtually no organizational work. Executive discipline was zero in the country. Since the early days, the so-called opposition has obstructed the Government's efforts to implement the anti-crisis programme. From the very first day, slander and false accusations broke down. Since autumn, well-paid polytechnologists have been preparing the country for the idea of opening parliament and removing the rule of the legally elected Government. That is, the country was essentially prepared for the 2006 election audit. Why I used the term so-called opposition. Because almost all the members, all the leaders of the district, the district administrations, are in the hands of the entire executive branch on the ground of the so-called opposition. Regrettably, the President and his environment joined in targeting the Government. Twenty-eight laws have been vetoed over this short period of time. Twenty-one government decrees have been suspended. For the first time in the history of Ukraine, a veto was imposed on the State Budget Act. For a month and a half, work on the development of regulations related to the implementation and implementation of the State Budget Act was delayed. Nevertheless, not only has the Government been able to correct the situation but also the economy for the trajectory of sustainable development. The results of the first quarter are particularly indicative. As a result of 2006, we have seen positive developments, both in economic indicators and in the budget. Government policies aimed at accelerated economic growth had yielded positive results and the first quarter was significant. I'm going to take a quick look at the results. The real gross domestic product for January-March 2007 increased by 8 per cent. The main growth factors were an increase of 14 per cent in gross value added in manufacturing, 14 per cent in construction, 14 per cent in trade. The rate of growth in industrial production, look closely at the slide and note more than 12 times higher than in the similar quarter of 2006. Industrial production increased by 12.5 per cent. In particular, the growth rate in processed products has increased by almost 40 per cent in woodworking, in chemistry by 6 per cent, in steel industry by 17 per cent and in machinery by 24 per cent. The increase is observed both for goods consumed by the population and for products used in the production and delivery of services. The volume of retail trade for January-March 2007 increased by 26 per cent. It was extremely difficult to address the negative impact of 2005 on import policies. We put nearly 12 billion dollars in the first quarter of the year into the development of other people's economies. 59 billion grevens amounted to imports in the first quarter. The negative balance on goods was minus $5 billion or nearly $1 billion. But that's less than it was last year. I recall that in 2006 we ended up with a negative balance on goods almost minus 7 billion. So we have a positive trend in reducing the negative balance on goods. The Government has managed to maintain price stability, and this has been done with the increase in electricity and gas tariffs. On the slide, you can see that January-March 2007 received one of the lowest consumer price indices, 1.3 per cent, which is 2 times lower than January-March 2006. The pace of GDP growth, which is particularly important for economic development, is much ahead of inflation. In the first quarter of this year, the increase in gross domestic product over inflation was 6.7 per cent, i.e. the increase in final aggregate income is significantly higher than the increase in prices. It is therefore possible to speak of a good government policy that combines high economic growth and low inflation. In the first three months of 2007, population deposits increased by 11 per cent in the national currency. This is a demonstration of the confidence of citizens and businesses in government policies. Income to the consolidated budget has increased significantly. They exceeded last year's tax base by 37 per cent. [[Think about this number only.]] And that's without a hitch in 2005, which we watched with you on all the TV channels when you were fighting the so-called shadow economy. The General Fund of the State Budget for January-March 2007 was over one and a half billion grevens. As a result, we decided in March to improve the level of social protection for the population. And along with you have decided to increase social standards twice again. The population budget provides substantial compensation for the increase in housing and utilities tariffs caused by our predecessors. With a view to enhancing the efficiency of budget spending and minimizing abuse, we have taken the most stock of budget management and have already adopted 252 new policies. Expenditures in the first quarter were carried out in strict compliance with the budget schedule. 100 per cent of the general budget of the State budget has been allocated for protected items. During the three months of the current year, local budgets have been allocated to local budgets at 1.3 times that of the same period last year. The Government has developed a medium-term reform programme to be presented to the Supreme Council in the near future. Tomorrow, at a government meeting, we are planning to consider a draft Tax Code, which provides for a significant reduction in tax pressure and an improvement in the investment attractiveness of Ukraine. In the final phase, the concept of local budget reform, the programme to improve the competitiveness of the national economy and other reforms required for the State. And this is the serious creative work of the Supreme Council and the Government, which has been torn down by the known events early in April this year. The exacerbation of the political situation could not but result in negative signs and negative trends that posed significant risks to the economic, financial stability of the State. First of all, I have to say that since the beginning of April there has been a decline in budget income. This is a normal characteristic of the deterioration of the political situation. On the slide, you can see that the total fund for nine banking days on 16 April did not receive more than 500 million dollars. Grieve. On the next slide, where you see the flow of funds -- balances in a single treasury account -- that is, government funds in the treasury -- you can see the failure that our predecessors left us when the execution was one billion in all. We have reached a sustainable level of 12 billion. Unfortunately, we've started working on our stocks. I will not reveal any secret if I say that the Standard-Purs International Rating Agency has made Ukraine's rating forecast worse from stable to negative. Credit analysts fear that Ukraine may experience a full-scale constitutional crisis that paralyses political decision-making, halts the implementation of critical reforms, economic decisions and significantly worsens economic growth prospects. International investors responded immediately to the political situation in Ukraine. There's an investment freeze, there's a signal. Unfortunately, I have to say, and on the slide, you can see how it's changed in front of the Ukrainian securities. In just a few days, the quotation of our securities fell to 12 basis points. Regrettably, it must also note that in stock markets we have seen an unprecedented decline in the share rate of domestic enterprises. And when some so-called theorists say that 7 per cent is not much, 7 per cent is the average hospital temperature, because liquidity stock has dropped by more than 20 per cent. Small-scale enterprises, respectively, have declined slightly and 7 per cent, which is very much. On the next slide, you can see changes in the structure of deposit and credit resources in our domestic banks. Unfortunately, we have to note what is usually happening in such cases, this movement of funds in enterprises' accounts has been suspended and the money has ceased to work in the economy by going to quieter harbors. Since the beginning of the month, legal persons' deposits have increased by almost a billion rubles. Exports unfortunately decreased during the 15 days of April compared to the March period. These are just some of the signs that determine the economy's response to the situation of political uncertainty. Therefore, the Government, knowing the very nature of our opposition, which will in all its sins be blamed by the Government, now declares that the authors of today's disturbing economic events are not the Government nor the Supreme Council. These are the same political forces that have been preventing the Government from working and doing everything to make the economy as bad as possible. In order to prevent the spread of negative effects in the real economy, to ensure a stable budgetary situation, and to increase accountability at all levels of the executive branch. A number of activities have been developed and implemented by the Government in economic and social processes. A special government decision has been adopted to ensure the smooth functioning of strategically important business facilities for the economy and security of the State, to prevent the destabilization of the situation in commodity markets, to unduly increase prices, to support the stability of the exchange rate, to prevent the reduction of the country's gold reserves and to fully align the Government's policy with that of the National Bank, to target budget use, to draft bills of strategic importance for the economy. Increased monitoring of the timeliness of payment of wages, social benefits and pensions, social protection of the most vulnerable sectors of the population, calculation of energy consumption, full and timely collection of taxes, fees, mandatory payments of budgets at all levels is envisaged. Effective organization of the implementation of the State budget should be combined with strict quality control and completeness of the services provided, as well as budget-saving activities. Due to the risk of under-received payments in April, we were forced to reduce funding for infrastructure projects, development programmes, other non-social costs, first and foremost.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u24	The funds will focus primarily on salaries, pensions, social benefits and public benefits. To conclude, the general objective of all parties, blocs, all branches of government is to avoid overheating political tensions, creating negative trends that threaten the economic and financial security of the State, the deterioration of the image of our country and of domestic producers in the international arena. We are absolutely responsible for the fact that it is not yet too late, and there is still time for us to maintain those economic development trends and trends that have been achieved in the first quarter. The economy is developing dynamically only in stable political conditions, and this is an axiom. Only with confidence in tomorrow's day will production increase, new technologies are introduced, wages are increased, and people's well-being, respectively. This is what forms the foundation of economic growth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u25	Thank you and thank you to the deputies for the attention they have shown to this information. Did anyone have any questions? Then sign up, please. And as we agreed with you, let's take about 10 minutes for questions and answers. I remind you, no more questions, no more minutes, no more answers, no more minutes. Illiac.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u26	Illashov, Party of Regions. I give you the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u27	It's a peckish word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u28	Nikolai Janović, first of all, I want to thank you on behalf of Zaporozhye Region, I have met with agrarians, for all the money paid for compensation, for the opportunity to keep energy prices, fertilizers, this is very positive. At the same time, people are now most concerned: the first is loans, their volumes and interest rates. The second question is the question of food price. But there is a reverse: reckless regulation and reckless stopping of market mechanisms so that there are no extremes. And most importantly, tell me when it's going to end.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u29	Please answer. And then the third question comes up separately.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u30	As you can see, my statement at such a well-respected assembly does not allow for the full and detailed characterization of the trends that the Government is currently seeing. Yesterday, the President met with the President of the National Bank. And we have informed the President much more fully, much more frankly about the situation in the country. Once again, we believe that the situation is so far.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u31	Be able to finish your thinking. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u32	The situation is fully under the control of the Government and the National Bank. There is no reason to increase the price of credit in order to reduce the amount of credit investment in the economy. We are firmly convinced of this, and we are prepared, together with the National Bank, to do our utmost to implement this tactic. However, I would like to stress that it is not possible to provide 100% guarantees as a result of the unpredictable development of the political situation. That is why we have made it absolutely clear to the President that it is necessary to restore stability as soon as possible. Now, with regard to food prices. We've got enough stock to cover all the merchandise items. There is absolutely enough, and there is no basis for price increases, there is no objective basis now. Therefore, in places where there is an increase in prices, it is typical of the behaviour of market players, which is based on this situation of political uncertainty. The Government has therefore provided in its decision for the use of all necessary levers, particularly marketable instruments, but we do not exclude the use of administrative levers where the situation may go beyond the parameters of food prices that we have set for ourselves.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u33	Thank you. Try to answer a little bit more quickly. Güreev asked for words. None. Uncle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u34	Please pass the word "Peklushenko."
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u35	Peanut.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u36	Party of the region, Paklusenko. Nikolai Janović, I think everyone understands how balanced your statement is, everyone understands that the economy is fragile and can't use thoughtless words to push these processes. Therefore, we thank you for your very clear statement, and I am sure that business itself, production itself, trade will not do anything stupid that will lead to irreversible processes. In this regard, as a specialist, tell us how many opportunities you see in time and space for policy to agree and for the economy, God willing, not to start irreversible processes?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u37	It's hard to say, Alexander Nikolayevich. We have experience with you, and I spoke to the President yesterday. We have experience. Regrettably, smart people learn from other people's mistakes, and we can't even learn from our own. So, we have experience in 2004, when we saw the day-to-day changes in the economy, day-to-day. I told him, “Please take 2004, end of November, December, and see what happened in the economy just after the day.” In the economy and in the financial sector, make a forecast. I do not want to compare the 2004 situation with 2007 situation, but they are completely different, but to make certain conclusions, if you want to make those conclusions, there is no work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u38	Thank you. I think, as you said, in time and space, we need to complete this whole five-to-seven-day cataclysy and get to normal work, and in space, all over Ukraine and beyond. Please, Peter, speak up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u39	Please pass it on to Chechtovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u40	Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u41	Dear Nikolai Janović, for the one-and-a-half-year stay of the orange team in power, we have all become convinced of their dilepticism, their complete lack of professionalism. We all remember that seven months after Timoshenko's appointment as Prime Minister, the President was forced to resign, realizing that she was still in power for a few days, and that she would not ruin the economy, she would ruin the whole country. Today, we are witnessing Mrs. Timoshenko's further basic illiteracy when she cynically states that money for an elected company can be taken from the Holy Cabmin Reserve Fund. Thank God she had enough brains not to offer that money at the casino to lose. Dear Nikolai Janović, I urge you to keep your face down throughout the country for the orange team and for Mrs. Timoshenko himself, as to where, by law, I emphasize, the Kabmin reserve fund should be used by law, and who should decide to create a financial source for an elected company.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u42	The Ukrainian legislation clearly defines that the funds for the electoral company are allocated in a separate line in the State Budget Act, all of them. There are no other sources of election financing. The contingency fund is spent only on emergencies. And we have a wealth of experience when we lacked the resources of the contingency fund to deal with the consequences of natural disasters, the exodus of such a major accident that was in the village of Novo Bogdanovka in the Melitopolski region. When we were forced to spend more than 70 million bracelets from the reserve fund. Therefore, no responsible Government has ever spent a contingency fund for non- situations.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u43	It's extraordinary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u44	It's extraordinary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u45	Thank you. Matvienkov instead of Kuzmenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u46	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Nikolai Janović, we are all well aware of the moments when, at night, within a month or two, our export-oriented country has become an imported State. And those three billion dollars of negative balance that came out of the trade balance, they naturally say that we're starting to fund a foreign economy intensively. We've been able to reduce that amount recently somewhere, so I understand from your figures, to one billion. But nevertheless, the trends that exist, the plans that the Government is making today, how do you see developments in this direction? What will be done to correct the year-end error that was made in 2005? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u47	You know, it's easy to make a mistake, but it's extremely difficult to fix. Therefore, if we have reduced customs tariffs, opened our borders, it is now virtually impossible to close them without prejudice to the population, without prejudice to the price situation. The Government has therefore decided to support, above all, the export sectors of the economy. We have decided to provide such support that the growth in export rates will exceed imports. To the maximum, we will import. Products and develop their own economy. Well, it's enough to say that the light industry in the gross domestic product structure is only one percent. The Government has therefore developed strong support for our domestic light industry to replace Turkish, Chinese, Thai, Malaysian and other goods in our domestic market. But all of this can only be achieved under political stability, only when we have at least three to four years of serious.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u48	Thank you. Matthew, last question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u49	Please pass the word to Marmazov's colleague.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u50	Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u51	Nikolai Janović, you've painted a dark, certainly picture of such a thing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u52	Objective painting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u53	What?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u54	Objective painting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u55	Yes, and objective. Indeed, yes, we see the situation on the ground, we see what Kabmin is doing, the Prime Minister does not leave the office, everyone convinces him to go to some sort of concession. So we see a situation in agriculture, we know that miners are already going to rock. Well, as I understand it, the President held a press conference and states, here's his words: “Insponsible and senseless statements of a possible deterioration of economic performance if the political crisis continues”. When you met the President, how do you feel about him being deceived by this environment, or is he deliberately misleading the people of Ukraine?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u56	I'm on it. I had to explain this situation. And I can only repeat once again what I said that those who claim that the political crisis and political instability contribute to economic development, but those who, let's put it mildly, understand little in the economy. The economy requires stability, first and foremost political stability. And the political risks in assessing investment are high, by the way, in the first place. Income and everything else are the second factors, and political risks are at the top. I've drawn, once again, not a dark picture, but I've tried to avoid estimates and dark projections. On the contrary, I said that we had every opportunity to return to the economic development trajectory that the country had reached in the first quarter. There's every chance. It seems to me that, as a result of yesterday's, well, almost two hours of interviews, the President has this understanding.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u57	Thank you. I think Eugene Vasilovich understands that the President is aware of the welfare of the people, just as he belongs to the President. But I would like to ask Mikola Yanovich and the Cabinet of Ministers in the information that has been said about today's challenges, let's say, the crisis situation is completely looking at the government's line of reform and economic development. It would be useful if we could prepare a government action programme more quickly, with this calculation, so that all of this money could be made, for example, for the development of light industry, for the creation of jobs, for the improvement of the investment climate, and so on, to put it in one document. And in doing so, to give an answer to society and especially to critics who say that the coalition and the government it created are working without a promising plan for them to see -- there is a good perspective, there are good prospects for Ukraine as a whole, there is simply a need to ensure that all the structures of power work properly so that it is not as it is today, when the government is forced to dance all the time, because it is being attacked and prevented from working and at the same time requires convincing results. They will be if we work together to ensure the normal work of the government and all the structures of power. I hope that the government will take this into account, and when we localize the political crisis, we will approach the balanced and planned work of the Cabinet of Ministers and of all the authorities in Ukraine. Thank you, Mikola Janovich, for finding time for this information. We're going to deal with question 2863, registration number, this is the draft Law on the Territorial Organization of Elections and Referendums in Ukraine. Reported by the Secretary of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Government, Gregory Grigorovich Ponomarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u58	Dear colleagues, I wanted you to understand that this law is not tied up in the elections for the term. I think today and I understand that the May 27 election is not going to happen, and there will be no early elections at all. I think there is a time for this law to be fully enforced in the 2011 elections. in the year. In addition to me, Victor Tikhov, Natalia Bogacheva and Yuri Klukkowski are the authors of this law, and the main task of the bill is to create legal preconditions for the formation of a permanent network of territorial constituencies, i.e. election committees, polling stations and territorial constituencies. You know that in all the laws -- and in the Law on the Elections of the President, of the People's Deputies, of the ARC and of the Local Councils, of the All-Ukrainian Local Referendums -- there are different periods of formation of these districts and districts. And the purpose of this law is to unite, to create instead of temporary status, because now these and the districts and the districts have temporary status so that they have permanent status. You know what's in the election. In the last elections in 2006, there were no separate special hospitals in the area because the local authorities did not address this issue in time, and they were not set up in separate hospitals. Another group of problems caused by the temporary nature of the constituencies involved the compilation of electoral lists. Thank God that we accepted the register on February 22, this year. The Law on the State Register of Voters. It enters into force on October 1, but some of its positions have been in effect since February 22, that is, CEC has been authorized by the registrar’s supervisor. The Cabinet of Ministers prepares this law in a financial and financial manner. the financial base for the units to be created. I think that these two bills that I'm presenting today, and the Law on the State Register of Voters, are the guarantee that, well, we know that the ghost is going to Ukraine -- the ghost of the electoral code. So these two bills will be the first bricks in the electoral code, which I think by the end of the year, this year the Supreme Council will have to accept. It is predicted that the usual commissions, and you know that there are ordinary, special, foreign offices, are part of special commissions that are permanent. First, it would allow for a careful and prompt approach to the preparation of proposals on the network and the boundaries of the polling stations, secondly, in advance to take the absolute majority of voters to some separate polling stations, and thirdly, it would allow for the weighing, without prejudice to the formation of constituencies. By the way, for the first time in the field, the initial creation of permanent polling stations relies on the Central Election Commission. The bill also proposes setting an upper limit for the number of voters assigned to one office in 2,500 without the right to exceed that limit. You know that in different laws, election laws, including referendums and presidential elections, there are different figures: up to 3,000 people, up to two and a half thousand people. And I think it's formation. The bill proposes to form 250 districts. I think that's the number for the second reading, because you can have 219, 220, 240, 450, 180, 27 districts. They're technology districts, and now they're doing the functions of technology districts so they don't take Kadima to Odessa from the districts of the protocols, or from the middle of Bug and Suma is creating a number of districts. As many as there are, I think by the second reading we're going to be able to figure out this number. I don't think there should be more than 200. The “Final Positions” stipulates that the alignment of these provisions with the Law on Elections of the President, the National Deputies and the elections of local councils, but the individual actions of the Law on Local Councils will be governed by the law in force. As the author of the project, I have reported, and as the secretary of the committee, I have been entrusted with the position of the State Building Committee, the local self-government, which I have considered this bill on March 14, this year. In addition, the Committee on Legal Policy, the Committee on Budgets and the Chief Scientific and Experimental Administration sent us their conclusions. I think that the comments made by the Committee on State Policy could be taken into account when preparing for the second reading. The Committee on Budgets, as always, refers to the conclusions or observations of the Ministry of Finance, and the Ministry of Finance notes that the 200th Supplement of the 25th Districts will call for additional funding of 4 million. Well, I told you before, nobody's today. I'm not sure there's going to be 250 districts on the second reading. And I think we can calm down the Ministry of Finance and calm down. These two committees are being proposed for support. take the basis and support in the first reading. I don't understand the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority, which proposes to reject this bill, which suggests that all of this should be regulated by individual electoral laws and referendum laws. I've given you the suggestions of our committee, and I'm asking you to support, that is, take the basis for the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u59	Thank you, Georgi Grigorovich. Will there be questions? You don't? Yes, please sign in. Yes. Eight minutes for everyone to ask a question. Gerasim, I can't see. Matvienkov, please, Sergei. After him is Dry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u60	Honourable Rapporteur. Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Tell me, please, we're talking about the formation of the site, we're talking about the formation of the districts. This is indeed one of the most serious issues. But you've touched on this subject. And we understand that without the establishment of a voter register without the establishment of a clear, structured selection register, it is not possible to conduct any elections in a fair manner. And we understand that and we realize that. In this regard, as you plan this work, how this law will be transformed into a register of voters, this is the first moment. And second moment. Don't you think that too much revolutionary movement in the area of upheaval can lead to the upheaval of districts that there is some sophisticated model, some sophisticated scheme, and an algorithm for work so far. There are some negatives, of course, but it is, it's made. Do you not think that this design can lead to a certain amount of confusion that can only exacerbate the electoral process? About what we talked about when we passed the law that was in force today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u61	We have observed in the 2006 elections that the authorities are interested in not adapting the sites to the vote. This provides for two months from the date of publication of the Act, CEC is given two months to make proposals to the local authorities on the sites. And CEC will be studying for three months whether they are equipped to pass these 2.5 thousand people. If it's not adapted, it'll be rejected. That is, five months is allocated to the establishment of the Central Electoral Commission. It would take about six months for CFCs to form constituencies on the basis of polling stations. I'm saying there may not be a breakup at all, and we can invest if you go to second reading and say it's 225, we're going to invest in that figure, 225, and we can not break the borders at all. The challenge is that we have to go from quantity to boundaries.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u62	Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u63	Thank you. Georgi Grigorovich, I agree with your thesis that the only system of constituencies, constituencies, needs to be unified at least in order not to repeat the sad experience of 2006 and especially the sad experience of 2004, when many of our voters were deprived of electoral rights. But please tell me that your colleague Matvienkov asked you questions about the national voter register. In the course of that question. Is it envisaged to introduce such a unified single system of constituencies and districts, to amend electoral legislation in part of other regulations, including, of course, the voter list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u64	Well, you guys, I'm saying once again that the register law has been in effect since October 1, but there are articles that are in force today, that is, the CEC has already acquired the authority of the registry manager. The Cabinet of Ministers, which is written down during the month, that is, by April 27th of this year, should confirm the position of those bodies that we will create in places, district and district administrations, district administrations to take effect should create these organs, new organs, and, if you remember, the About Register Act provides that registers for each district will be given separately from the register, a separate list of persons who will accept who will be assigned to this office. So this is where these two bills work within c.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u65	Matthew Valentine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u66	Thank you. Georgi Grigorovich, what needs to be improved by electoral legislation as a whole is beyond doubt, is what we've been talking about for a long time. That's why it's probably necessary to speed up the work on the electoral code, so that's going to solve the problem, I think, and to tackle the legislation, it's not at all the way that I think Parliament should choose today. So the question is to you. Why is it a separate law today to address the issue of the territorial organization of elections and referendums in Ukraine if we have to go a more perfect rational way?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u67	Valentin Grigorovich, we could make changes to these electoral laws, including the very imperfect Law on All-Ukrainian and Local Referendums. But I say again, this law gives the status of permanent election commissions. So today I'm going to know where I'm going to vote in 2011, where I'm going to be attached to. I'm basically going to make changes, but then the status of the constituencies doesn't change, and I'm saying, we've been taking 45 days and we're making, yeah, we're giving up the premises and we're creating the districts and the district commissions. I think we should pass the law, so it's part of the election code. One part of the election code.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u68	Thank you. Please sit down. Yes, are they willing to share in the discussion? You don't? No, there is. Yes, Chechetov, please. Microphone, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u69	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! Indeed, we are considering a rather serious and rather difficult bill. And whether the wording in which it will be adopted, as it will be written, will largely depend on the procedure, transparency, democraticity of the next elections or non-elections, will repeat the 2006 elections, which, at the discretion of all European observers and observers of the CIS, have been recognized as the most transparent, democratic, free, fair elections, or vice versa, will be given another assessment. A more thorough examination of the draft law at the professional level raised very serious questions that it was this concept of the law that would help the elections to become more transparent and democratic and honest. Therefore, I do have a proposal to send this bill for further elaboration in order to further elaborate and seriously develop this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u70	Thank you. So, please, what's the opinion of the Ministry of Justice? Deputy Minister Lutkovska Valerija Volodymyrvan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u71	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Ministry of Justice does not support this bill in view of the fact that the draft law is intended to regulate the territorial organization of elections and referendums in Ukraine as a group of special territorial units. At the same time, the project will unify only the territorial organization of the election of the President of Ukraine and the election of the Ukrainian national deputies and the all-Ukrainian referendum. Thus, the system of territorial organization of local elections of all levels and local referendums remains outside the scope of the proposed draft law. Its organization is proposed to establish an appropriate law. Thus, the adoption of this project can significantly complicate the simultaneous holding of the general and local elections. Furthermore, according to part of article 85 of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, if changes to other laws are necessary to implement the provisions of the bill after its adoption, such changes should be laid down in the section “Transitional Provisions” of the bill or in a separate bill by its initiator. At the same time, paragraph 2 of the “Principal Regulations” states that when this law becomes effective, many other laws of Ukraine will act in a part that does not conflict with this law. This rule indicates that there is no comprehensive approach to the issues that are being addressed. In this regard. So we think that the adoption of a project in the proposed form instead of breaking the rules of existing electoral laws might be unmotivating to complicate the electoral process in Ukraine. In addition, the project needs to clarify the definition of the terms “territorial constituency”, “foreign constituency”, “electoral district”, because the proposed definitions do not fully reflect the content of these concepts. In addition, there are some inadequacies in the design regulations and standards. In this regard, the Ministry of Justice does not support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u72	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Indeed, those who do. And in our questions, and in our discussion, and we heard the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. We'll probably do it this way. We thank the authors for trying to improve the electoral legislation that they have brought to the attention of both the Supreme Council and society the need to improve it. And, indeed, with the opportunity, I would like to enlist your support to make a commitment to ourselves first and foremost to the State Building Committee, which we need to create a single electoral code. Every time we approach an election, we must adopt new laws and apply electoral legislation. It doesn't do us any good. I think we're completely mature enough to have a single election code and not adopt the laws that are now being proposed. This is just one of the patches that can, as it were, improve legislation. But if you read carefully, this bill does not improve legislation as much as it makes it even more difficult, for instead of a series of laws, there is another additional one, so to speak, that will only cause some confusion. That's why I'm stressing again and again. Our duty, and I hope that the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call to the Next Elections, and the first elections will not be in 2011, but will be the first presidential elections, earlier in 2009 or 2010, will be the debate when they will, but at least sooner than the parliamentary elections. We're going to do everything we can to, in fact, create a single election code, adapt it already in the course of one, the next election, and then to have fewer claims, so that there can be no commissions that no one can blame us, all the more justly that the President's decree can't be enforced even because the legislation doesn't allow it to be implemented, and, thank God, on the one hand, everyone comes to a conclusion, including the initiator of the decree that on 27 May, at all the desired elections, we can't be held. But since the initiative was, I will put them to the vote in that order. The committee proposes to adopt Bill No. 2863 — draft Law on the Territorial Organization of Elections and Referendums in Ukraine on the basis of the first reading. I'd like to make a statement. [[11:37:32]] For the This proposal received three votes in favour. Such an offer is not accepted. Let's send the drafters to work on this bill, let them work. Please vote. [[11:38:03]] For 244 Thank you, copy. The bill is aimed at redrafting the authors. Dear colleagues! You and I are now to consider the draft Law on the General Principles of Parliamentary Control in Ukraine, Bill 2779. However, a colleague who is the author of the initiative, Kiwalov Sergey Vasilovich, asks that this issue be postponed because of the need to reconcile positions under the bill. Please support this proposal: moving the matter forward. Vote. It's working, push well. [[11:38:58]] For 248 Decision taken. The bill is being tabled. We need to get into the agenda and today we need to consider Bill 3174 – a government draft of the Act amending certain Ukrainian laws to clarify the tasks of the Ministry of Defence of Ukraine and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. Please vote on the inclusion of the issue in the agenda and consideration today. Vote. [[11:39:43]] For 245 Questions are included in the agenda. Let us begin his consideration. Well, here's the reporter for the designated Defense Minister Grishenko Anatoly Stepanovich, but you know the position of Minister to the Supreme Council. I think it's going to be the right position and the Supreme Council for the minister. Yes, I give the floor to the head of the National Security and Defence Committee of the Lviv Mikolaiovich. Please, what is the position of the committee?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u73	National Deputy of Ukraine, Lev Gnatenko, National Defence and Security Committee. So the bill was submitted by the Cabinet by the Minister of Ukraine to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorović Januković. The proposed bill amends the five main Ukrainian laws on defence and security. The proposed bill aims to clarify the functions of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff of the Armed Forces, the issue of State defence policy and the implementation of the military, political and administrative administration of the Armed Forces of Ukraine. The drafters propose clarification at the legislative level of the power of the President of Ukraine as the Supreme Commander, harmonization of terminology in all legislative acts. In the light of my professional experience, I can confirm that the need for this bill and the clarification of the tasks of the Ministry of Defence of the General Staff have long been ripe. However, the provisions of the bill need to be carefully elaborated in the light of the conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the proposals made by members of the Committee on National Security and Defence. In particular, the proposed changes in many are subject to specificization and exclusion of contradictions in the interpretation of certain provisions of the laws in force and the Constitution of Ukraine. At the meeting of the National Security and Defence Council Committee on 23 March 2007, it was decided to submit this bill to Parliament with a recommendation that it be adopted as a basis for a bill that is essential for our State. Taking into account the comments and proposals of the actors of the legislative initiative, bring it into line with the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine in preparation for second reading. This decision was also supported by representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Cabinet of Ministers. Members of the Parliamentary Committee on National Security and Defence are open to fruitful cooperation and await proposals from their colleagues, regardless of political affiliation. It's the defense of the state. Please support the Committee's decision to adopt the draft law on the basis of a mandate to prepare it for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u74	Thank you, Leo Mikolaiovich. Are there any questions? You don't? Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up for factions. Yes, who else wants it? Yes, please, Mikhailo Vasilovcz Chechetov, please, faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u75	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, this is, indeed, a very important bill of government, and it needs to be adopted in the first reading. But we do have some observations about this bill. First. The project proposes to deal with a wider circle of issues than it does with its name. In particular, in addition to clarifying the tasks of the Ministry of Defence, the General Staff of Ukraine, it is envisaged to clarify the powers of the President of Ukraine as Commander-in-Chief, to harmonize the terminology of certain legislative acts with the Law on Civil Protection and other additions to valid legislative acts. The other one. In view of the proposal to make a number of amendments to the Ukrainian Defence Act, it would be necessary to include in the bill a provision on the recognition of Ukraine's civil defence laws "On civil defence of Ukraine" and "On civil defence forces of Ukraine" in such a way that they have become invalid. And the third. There is also a need to clarify the terminology of the project, including the definition of the term “special period”. But these remarks do not diminish the importance of the bill. And one thought is to adopt this bill in the first reading and to take the proposals into account in the second reading process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u76	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. Let's be clear. Indeed, the Cabinet of Ministers, as the subject of the legislative initiative, is right in settling certain positions. But I'm paying attention to the profile committee so that we don't write laws or change laws for one day. Now the situation is that the Chief Commander of the Armed Forces is the Chief of General Staff. But this is a situation today where the Secretary of Defense is a non-military man, then the Chief of General Staff is in line with the Commander-in-Chief. And if tomorrow or tomorrow the Secretary of Defense is military, he becomes commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces, and we're going to write in the law that the Chief of Staff is the Chief of Staff. That's because today's minister is a non-military man. So when I'm preparing for the second reading, I'd like to take these nuances into account and write them out. Add, probably, if the Secretary of Defense is a non-military man, then the Chief of General Staff is the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces. To take into account that after a day or two or a month or a year from now, we don't have to change the laws depending on who's going to be the secretary of defense. And look at the other formulations that are proposed to be made into this law. Yeah. He's coming or he's not coming, well, it's a different situation. It's more our internal regulatory standard. I am voting on the proposal for adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine to clarify the tasks of the Ministry of Defence and the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, registration number 3174. Please vote. [[11:47:22]] For 248 The bill was adopted in the first reading. We, honourable colleagues, need to include in the agenda and consider today the draft Act amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, registration number 3257. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[11:48:03]] For 248 The bill is included in the agenda. Let us begin his discussion. The bill is government. Reported by Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Molchanov Boris Jakovic. Get ready from the Committee of the Red Cross.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u77	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In accordance with the Ukrainian Act on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, participants in hostilities, the Great National War, rewarded for fighting by the Order, the Medal “For Courage” or the Medal of Usakow, regardless of the time of the award, have the right to a special merit pension of between 25 and 35 per cent of the living minimum set for persons who have lost their jobs. Persons who have participated in hostilities in other states and who are rewarded with one of Ukraine’s or former Soviet Union’s orders, a special merit pension is set at between 25 and 25 percent of the living minimum for those who have lost their jobs. The issue of granting the same rights to participants in hostilities in other states as part of receiving special merit pensions from participants in the Great War two years in a row is governed by the State Budget Act 2006 and 2007. The bill proposes to introduce the above-mentioned rule into the Ukrainian Law on Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine as a permanent rule. The adoption and implementation of the bill does not require additional expenditure from the State budget of Ukraine. Please accept the prescribed bill as a basis and as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u78	Thank you, Boris Jacobovich. Will there be questions? You don't? No, it's not a shortened procedure. Have a seat, please. Sergey Vasilovich, please, from the profile committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u79	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons considered and supported the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine, which was developed by the Cabinet of Ministers in connection with the need to comply with the Ukrainian Law on State Budget for 2006 and the State Budget for 2007 on the granting of the same rights to war veterans who participated in hostilities in other countries with participants in hostilities during the Great Church War in part of the appointment of special merit pensions to Ukraine. Under the second article of the First Law of Ukraine, "On Retirement for Special Credits to Ukraine" it is stipulated that pensions for special merit are granted to veterans of the Great War of Homeland, to participants in hostilities against Japan in 38-39 and 45 years, including in Mongolia, rewarded for fighting by the Order, the Medal "For Courage" or the Medal of Usakow, the guerrillas of the Great War of Homeland, the award-winning medal "For Courage" irrespective of the time of the award. The participation of citizens in hostilities in the territories of other nations and international peacekeeping operations has been and remains a military obligation associated with a particular risk to life. The citizens of Ukraine, under difficult conditions in military contingents with honor and dignity, carried out their military duties in various regions of the globe. The purpose of the bill is the legislative confirmation of the merits of the country's defenders of all generations before the state, the provision of social justice in the matter of their retirement. The same rule is provided for in the Ukrainian State Budget Act 2006, 2007. Since this standard is permanent, it is proposed to amend the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. Please support and adopt the law in the first and second readings and in general as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u80	Thank you, Sergey Vasilovich. Will there be questions? There's one little one. Well, Dry, let's put it on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u81	No, well, the Dry One should ask, and thank God that the Dry One would ask that question, because we had to ask the Deputy Minister, for some reason we didn't ask him. Please tell me, was the committee considering additional budget costs? You know what I'm saying, so we don't want to like the electorate right now because we've had this before. Don't we just balance the pension fund's budget? If you were looking at it, it just didn't sound like it today. What's the amount of extra revenue that's covered? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u82	My dear colleague, I say you may have heard a little bit. The State Budget Act 2006-2007 already provides for these costs. And so now you just have to do it in a constant way. So there won't be a penny of imbalance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u83	Yes. And I, honourable colleagues, honourable colleagues, remind you that this is a government bill, if the government introduces a bill, it has already counted everything, and more importantly, I reiterate Sergey Vasilovich's words that such standards are already in the 2007 budget. I mean, it doesn't need any extra expenses, because we've already predicted these standards with you. From. Jaroslav Mikhailovich is pleased. Please sit Sergey Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u84	Yeah. The first and the whole.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u85	Yes, if you would like to participate in the discussion, please register with the factions. So from the MPs, if they're willing, please sign up. Yes, then, please for 8 minutes, excuse me, 6 minutes Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, get ready for Matviyenko's.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u86	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! Respectable voters! Indeed, we are today considering an important social bill. And it is very sad that today there is neither the BUT faction nor the faction of our Ukraine, which both fights in shirts, and the media, which they are the defenders of the people, and that they are always in favour of addressing, above all, the social issues of improving people's standard of living. Although life has shown that when a budget was adopted to raise social standards, they have done their utmost to ensure that the country enters the new year without a budget, so as not to receive either pension or salary. And today, once again, I repeat, there is no vital social bill, neither BUTT nor our Ukraine. This is the policy of double standards when they say one thing and when it comes to cases, it's completely different. Well, it's the opposition's handwriting, the worse it is for people, the better for them. Now, specifically with regard to the bill. The bill has been proposed since 1 January 2008 to extend the right to receive a special merit pension before Ukraine to all war veterans rewarded with a martial law, a medal “For Courage” or a Medal of Usakow, regardless of the time of reward. The right to receive pensions in this category has become permanent since it was provided for in Ukraine's 2006 State Budget Act and in Ukraine's 2007 State Budget. I ask you all to support the bill of government. I repeat, a very important, socializing bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u87	Thank you. Please, Matvienkov is handing over Zubka, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u88	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, respected TV viewers, participants in hostilities, veterans of the Great Homeland War, families of the dead! A very important bill is being considered today that will help to raise the level of social protection of those involved in fighting, those who gave their lives, the ministry and the protection of the Fatherland, the people who are now the elite of the nation. I would like to express my gratitude to the Cabinet of Ministers for introducing this very important bill the day before the Great Victory in the Great Homeland War, which will allow to increase the level of social protection of veterans, those who are rewarded with military rewards, the Medal “For Courage” and the Medal of Ushakov. I ask the people's deputies to vote and support this bill. And I think it will be before the Great Victory of the Great Homeland War a good gift to the citizens of our Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u89	Thank you. Have a seat, please. What does the Pension Fund think? First Deputy Head of the Novak Pension Fund, please. Don't beat up Nowak. He's been given a word. What does the Pension Fund have to say about this bill?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, the Pension Fund does not object to the adoption of such a bill because there is no need for additional expenditure from the budget. And we don't have any comments.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u91	Thank you. Question completed. All those who participated, both reporters and co-reporters, and those who spoke, support the bill. What's more, once again, I emphasize that this is already essentially what we're catching up with the State Budget Act, which takes this into account. But this is for one year, 2007. There's a chance to make it a permanent norm, especially since it's an offer from the Cabinet of Ministers. I think we have every reason to accept this bill as a law as a whole. I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending article 1 of the Ukrainian Law on Pensions for Special Credits to Ukraine. Bill number 3257. Please vote. [[12:00:34]] For 253 The law is passed. A break of up to 12 hours is announced for 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u92	The sitting is continuing. We need to consider a draft regulation to amend the Supreme Council regulation on the application of social scholarships to the Supreme Council of Ukraine for students from higher education institutions of orphans and children from low-income families. But before that, you have to put it in the order of the day, that's the question. So I'm asking you to make up your mind about including the project. [[Registration number 3425]] I'm voting on this proposal to include this project in the debate. [[12:33:38]] For 212 Ask the deputies to come into the hall. We haven't had time to smoke. Come on, let's go. The session began a little earlier than the half - hour recess. Who is responsible for returning to the consideration of this matter? Who's in charge of getting back to voting on this? Please, there's a vote. [[12:34:27]] For 240 Well, of course, have a seat. I'm voting on the motion to include in the order of the draft regulation registration number 3425. Here comes the vote, please. [[12:34:57]] For 243 The decision is taken, “in favour” – 243. The word has a head. Deputy Head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy and Sports, Safiullin Ravili Isafovich. Please. Calm down, please. Don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u93	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! The Profile Committee decided to support the draft Supreme Council regulation on the transfer of social scholarships to students of higher education institutions from orphans and children from poor families from the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport, Youth Policy and Tourism to the Committee on Science and Education. The fact is that this is fully in line with the changes adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree “On the List, Quantities and Objects of Knowledge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Fifth Appeal” which, as the subject of a vision of the Committee on Science and Education, refer to education issues and, accordingly, to issues that include student fellowship. I have a request for the People's Deputies to support this draft order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u94	Please. We don't have to do this for a short period of time. Yeah, is there a question for the reporter? No questions asked. Then sit down, please. Is there no objection to putting it to a vote? I'm putting this project to a vote in 3425 on the application of the social scholarships of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for students from higher education institutions of orphans and children from low-income families. This is a change to an existing decision. I'll bet you a vote. Here comes the vote. [[12:37:24]] For 246 Decision taken. Next. The Conciliation Board recommends the following projects: from 3188 to 3177, to 2778, including, in the plan you have, consider the simplified procedure. If you support this proposal. I'm voting on this proposal to consider the issue. [[12:38:09]] For 233 It's a procedural decision. The reduced procedure deals with issues. And first among them is the 3188 registration number. Draft Law on Amendments to Article 77 of the Basic Law on Health Care in Ukraine. [[on the establishment of additional leave for family medical personnel]] Reported to the Head of the Committee on Health Care of the Bahtejev Tetjana Dmitrovna. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u95	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! I am submitting to your consideration the draft amendment to article 77 of the Basic Law on Health Care, which is proposed to nurses in general practice of family medicine, the head of the family medicine department and the average medical staff of the visiting brigades who have been working continuously for more than three years, the right to additional paid annual leave of three calendar days. It should be noted that medical personnel, such as district doctors, including family and emergency care professionals, are already entitled to a three - day leave. A family nurse works with a family medicine doctor, doing the same work as a family nurse, and she also deserves an additional three - day vacation. In order to provide timely help to the village sufferer, the nurse often has to walk on large roads. By the beginning of this year, there are more than nine thousand family nurses in Ukraine, including six thousand working in rural areas, and the additional need for this category of workers in the country as a whole is 11,000. It is also suggested that additional three - day leave should be granted to family medicine managers who perform similar duties to those of the head of the therapeutic and pediatric wards. The adoption of the bill will contribute to the development of primary care in family medicine, which is the best way to improve the effectiveness of the health sector. According to the Ministry of Health, the introduction of the bill does not require additional funds from the State Budget of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u96	Let's finish, by the way, she speaks so brilliantly in Ukrainian. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u97	Thank you. Since the average medical staff of the general practice of family medicine and exit teams in practice are now compared to the therapeutic and rapid care services, they are given a three - day additional leave. However, these provisions require an appropriate legislative arrangement. The Ministry of Finance and the budgetary committee of the Supreme Council do not object to the adoption of the bills. The Health Committee proposes to adopt the bill as a basis for the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u98	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Once again, I'm going to say that Tetjana Dmitrovna has an absolutely Cherkasian accent. You've noticed, apparently. Right? Anyone who wishes to say "yes" or "against" please sign in. Pekluenko and Matvienkov want to make a statement. Please, Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u99	Dear Tatiana Dmitrievna, on behalf of all colleagues, we wish to thank you for this law, although we understand very well that it is the minimum that we must give to this category of workers. Regrettably, our respected radio audiences have prevented us from intensifying this situation. Of course, if the Supreme Council were to work fully today, if the Cabinet of Ministers today could fully exercise its powers, the situation would not be for three days, and the situation would, of course, be about your salary. We know your problems, we know those problems in the country. And we guarantee you that Parliament in this composition will come out of the political crisis. Our opponents must understand that you are not fighting against Parliament, not against the Party of Regions, not against the coalition, you are fighting against your own people.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u100	Thank you. Alexander Mikolaiovich, Parliament is not in a political crisis. In the crisis, part of the deputies who initiated it. Parliament works and has the right to make decisions and to make decisions in accordance with the Constitution. That is, the legislative body functions. It's a fact that doesn't even need a comment. Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u101	Matvienko, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, today we have considered the bill in faction and made a clear decision to support it, because we believe that it is not even what we should do today, it is the debts that have really accumulated for this category of people today. From the category of people who work their lives saves the health of our people. This is particularly true in rural areas, in rural areas, in rural areas, in those who are forced, excuse for such prose, and in order to get miles to a particular apartment in order to provide the first medical care needed. And usually these people have to spend their money in some way in order to ensure normal working capacity. They are forced to spend and not to consider themselves completely different from their families, not with their personal time, not with their health. They're ready to make any profit at any moment, they're ready to go to the rescue and keep their oath. That is why we are in favour of adopting this bill. Once again, I stress that this is not an advance, we consider this a debt that we will at least partially allow to make a greater contribution to solving the problems for this category of population in the future in stabilizing economic policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u102	I have the right to vote on this project. First, in my first reading, I put the vote to the vote. Please. [[12:45:07]] For 247 Decision taken. Well, there was no such initiative. 3221 is a bill amending the Ukrainian Security Service Act (to improve management procedures). This is a project by the people's deputy Sameilenka. And he's both as the author, and he's asking the committee for four minutes together. This is the procedure. Please be able to perform. Samilenko Yuri Pavlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u103	Dear colleagues, there is no need to speak of the role and place of special service of any country during various periods of Statehood. But if we analyze today the activities of the Ukrainian Special Service over the past five years, it can be noted that the basic principle of the Ukrainian Security Service Act is being violated, it is the principle of depoliticization of service, non-interference of service in the various political processes that are taking place within the country. The main reason for this is the lack of a legislative mechanism for staff policy that would provide for a high professional level of appointed managers, continuity and stability of staff would prevent political engagement and balance in the work of the staff. This is also the result of insufficient parliamentary control over the activities of State special bodies and the prevention of subjectivity in human resources policies. To illustrate, it is possible to begin with the appointment of the President of the Military Personnel Service, I stress that the Smeshko scout has initiated the process of service reform based on the slogans of decagebization, demilitarization. The reform went unwarrantedly to replace experienced counter-intelligence colleagues from the island from military counter-intelligence, to disengage the central apparatus, to force talks on the reduction of the quantification of the BSS. The apopheus of personnel policy was the appointment of the first Zampreda businessman, Satsuk, and his post of general title. As a result, all known materials of the BSP's participation in the electoral process, which is a long-term criminal case for poisoning one of the presidential candidates. In the wake of the victory of the orange revolution as a result of the distribution of posts and portfolios, Mr. Turkinov, a representative of the BSB political force, took the Chair of the BSB, whose 7 months of government clearly saw the line of politicization of the BSS. This is evidenced by criminal proceedings brought against the political leaders of the Kolesnikov, Tihonova, Ephraim, others, the process of so-called illustrations. That is, we witnessed an attempt to revive a prominent political quest that flourished in the time of the all-powerful KGB. I am no longer talking about the staff guard when again a large number of members of the board of duty, the heads of the regional bodies of the BSS, and their deputies were mistakenly replaced. The main criterion was the contribution of everyone to the victory of the oranges. The change of Prime Minister Timoshenko was replaced by the Chairman of the BSS and became a staff member of the Dryzhcany Public Prosecutor's Office. Once again, staff fever through the appointment of reliable associates, including prosecutors and other agencies, to the management of the post. Conclusion: Under the pretext of reforming experienced professionals and continuing reforms without a clear vision of the final objectives, based on the recommendation of PARE and other import advisers. Well, then, the process will return, an attempt by the constitutional guarantor to appoint a staff member of the internal affairs authorities to chair the HFS and the delayed duties of the Chief of Staff of the Special Service as a staff diplomat, Mr. Nastavajchenko. As a result, the appointment of two internal affairs officers, professionals, but in the field of police work, of 12 deputy heads of regional BSS bodies of the same category. The most unacceptable is the continuation of the process of politicization of the BSS: the appointment of an interim investigative commission; the unprecedented statement by Mr. 1997wejchenko on the willingness of the BSP to ensure the functioning of the CSF in Kiev and in the regions; the intervention of the BSP staff under the pretext of protection in the proceedings taking place around the Pecher Court; and the most dangerous one is the violation of the principle of presumption of innocence and the presentation of unverified, clearly-ordered information in relation to the relationship of the Constitutional Court judge Susanna Stanik.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u104	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u105	My opinion is that such decisions will have to be taken sooner or later. Believe me, the information made public by Mr. Lätweichenko regarding the multi-million-dollar acquisitions of relatives of a judge of the Constitutional Court requires considerable time to obtain the materials concerned. That is, there is a fact of preparation of the action, the final conclusion of which is chosen just before the crucial meeting of the Constitutional Court. That's if you want, and pressure on the other judges. Look, please, that could happen to you. And as a former staff member, I am offended that the management of the service has been dragged into this legal vacuum. And then the question arises why the material was not transferred in time to the Attorney-General's Office, which is responsible for these matters. On that basis, I am forced from this rostrum today to disclose to the Committee on National Security and Defence the information received by the National Security and Defence Committee - I stress - to be verified, the attempts to provoke the Security Service to another provocation, the discreditation of the Head of the Supreme Council of Alexander Alexandrovich Moroz, members of the Government of Azarov, Kluev and others, including through the Security Service's “acquiring” information on their relations with Russian citizens, the provision of appropriate counter-intelligence and media coverage. [[& Tiles]] Against this background, distinguished deputies, please present the state of operations and the staff of the BMS. The complexity of the challenges that change with each arrival of a new leader, uncertainty in the future, and social insecurity. People's wisdom says, "Fish rots from their heads." Your attention is therefore requested by this bill, which aims to improve the procedure for the appointment of BMS managers by increasing the professional requirements for candidates and specifying the criteria for their selection.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u106	Thank you. Have a seat. Anyone who wishes to comment on the content of this project is put to the vote. Please sign up for the performance. Katerina Semenovna wants to. Please. Go to the rostrum. On the rostrum, you'll be seen in the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u107	Dear colleagues, reverent radio listeners! I want to talk to everyone. And I think it was absolutely right that our reporter proposed this bill. And the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine will vote in the first reading. We remember, of course, the times when the Ukrainian Security Service was headed by Malikov, Radchenko, who really stood in the interests of our nation. And no position, either the President of Ukraine or any other politicians, could have swayed them, indeed, this position absolutely. We know otherwise that the standards of the sect were passed on to the Security Service. We also know that the heads of the Security Service have actually started to appoint people who have just been found on the streets or on the playgrounds and so forth. You can't let that happen. I want to mention the words of the famous classic, he said quite correctly: “The Cadres decide everything.” And Ukraine has been shaking for 16 years. It's constantly shaken by the fact that we don't have a human-minded policy, because we don't do human resources, and why we don't do exactly random people, especially in the leading ones, we're going to talk, we're just going to pick positions for other reasons, just not on the grounds of the professional willingness of these people. And so I think that this same bill will serve so that we can review human resources policy and not just the Ukrainian Security Service, I think it should apply to all the power structures, and the Ministry of Defense, so that random people don't be there, and the Attorney General's Office, of course, and all the other power structures. And that's why I think we're going to support, so we're going to start essentially professional selection of the personnel both on these positions and on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u108	Oleg Antipov, please. Oleg Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u109	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! Antipov Oleg Nikolaevich, Secretary of the Committee on National Security and Defence. It was very timely and correct to raise the issue that serious training should be undertaken and the appointment of the head of the Ukrainian Security Service should be monitored. At the same time, Yuri Pavlovich’s attention was drawn to the professionalism of the ministry. You'll see what's happening in our country right now. The most powerful structures are trying to politicize, turn into tools, a tool that affects the political situation in our country. I therefore invite the deputies to support this bill. The Supreme Council should, under democratic control, monitor the appointment. And the head of the Security Service should be interviewed in the future by the Supreme Council, the National Security Committee. And we must carefully and carefully monitor the fact that who and under what conditions is appointed to this service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u110	Thank you. I would like to address the drafters of the bill and all the MPs. The observation of the Supreme Council's Scientific and Experimental Authority is quite right about the fact that in such formulations, as it says here, we can frame ourselves for the incorrect implementation of the Constitution's rules on the distribution of functions of power. But in one of the articles of the Constitution, I don't remember right now, it looks like 89 articles, it's about the functions of control by the committees of the Supreme Council and the Supreme Council at all. This entry was not in the previous text; it appeared when the amendments were made. In this way, we need to speed up the drafting of a bill to ensure parliamentary control over all structures, including the Security Service. And it's obviously there to write out the possibilities that give us reason to control both the state registration and the order of appointment for the positions of the right people, and their professional preparation, and many other things that the authors of the bill are concerned about today. In other words, we can now accept this document as a basis, and we need to work on it, but by speeding it up, maybe we can incorporate these rules into other laws, because there are a lot of things that apply to how these issues are dealt with in sessions, that is, they can change the Rules and so on. So you have to work in this direction, but now there's a proposal, I'd like to support this first-reading project. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[12:57:44]] For 252 Decision taken. As to the replication of the ties between Ukraine’s individual politicians and Russian citizens in general, I had good relations with Alexander Sergiyovich Pushkini, truly dead, unfortunately. And today I'm familiar with both the President of Russia and some of the leading politicians there. I believe that this is very useful for Ukraine, and I think that these ties will continue in that direction. And the fact that the affairs there are being developed by some experts, thank you for the information. I think they're going to think a little bit more about how to do it now, because there's been more than once when the security forces are trying to compromise one or the other politicians, and then there's a lot of failure from that work. The draft Law on Amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine and the Master Code of Ukraine on State Registration of Commercial Concession Contracts is under consideration and reports on this subject to Mr. Voropeyev Mikolaiovich. [[Registration number 2609]] Is he here? I don't see him. And Feldman, I don't see Alexander Borisovich. Well, Feldman, he's in the revolution, ah. Then I propose to postpone this consideration to the plenary next week. I'm voting on this proposal. [[12:59:41]] For 254 Such an offer is accepted. Draft Act amending the Act on Social Work with Children and Youth. The project is reported by the Ukrainian National Deputy, head of the Committee of Samuelka Catherine Semenovna. And according to the author, he's a national MP. I'm sorry. But I don't think you're offended by the fact that you're the head of the committee. 2479 registration number, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u111	No, no. Absolutely. Because Rawl Safovich will be speaking from the committee. Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear colleagues! We do. As the drafter of the bill, I ask you to take the basis for this bill, because it needs further work, because a number of proposals have been put forward by the Scientific and Experimental Authority of our country. True, a number of them don't even apply because, for example, we haven't changed structures. We cannot speak in every law at what age, by what age, and so forth. This is regulated by other legislation. In principle, to what exactly is our law directed? First. After the adoption of the first edition of the bill, it took a great deal of time, and the reality has really changed. For example, the issue of raising children in a family has not always been the case before, but, sadly, today the problem is very acute in our country. For example, we did not deal with questions earlier and with questions related to romances, AIDS, and so forth. I mean, today we're proposing a series of suggestions that should reflect the realities of today's and work should still focus on raising our children's families. And so without changing the structure of this bill, we introduce the new real needs of our society for social work with children and young people, and we also add to the family, because without a family, there can be absolutely no society, including our Ukrainian society, because it is the Asians who are raised and loved to our land and the healthy way of life and to our Fatherland and so forth that they are born into the family. All of this needs the support of our state today, and I think the bill has just been targeted.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u112	Thank you, thank you, sit down, please. The account. Safiulin Raville will report from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u113	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished members of the people! The Act on Social Work with Children and Youth was adopted in 2001. There is no doubt that a significant number of major changes have taken place since then in the case of social work with children and young people. In accordance with the provisions, a number of subjects of competence assigned to the Ministry for the establishment and implementation of public policies on families, children and youth have also changed. It is clear that all these changes require a certain, sufficiently serious improvement in the legislative framework and a legal solution to social work with families, children and young people. In fact, the bill proposes to enact a new version of the existing law and to bring a number of other laws into line with the law. With regard to financial security, the State and local budgets provide funding for this work annually and therefore no additional expenditure will be incurred by the budget. The relevant committee at its meeting supported the legislative initiative on improving legal relations in the field of social work with families, children and youth and invited the Supreme Council to adopt it as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u114	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Anyone who wants to make a statement on this subject, please write it down. The dry one asked for it. [[B in m in s a l in]] First of all, I didn't push the buttons, I pushed the buttons. Jaroslav Mikhailovich, please. Dry Jaroslav speaks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u115	Dear colleagues, I, listening to this bill and previous bills, and you and I have recently taken a decision that has been freed from the thoughtless tax on the recovery of our children, have become increasingly convinced that only the political force that thinks about the future, the political force that believes in the future, ultimately, the political force that has this future, can come with legislative initiatives to improve the organizational and legal principles of social work with families, children and young people. It is no coincidence, therefore, that this bill, as the previous one, is introduced by the National Coalition of National Unity. As a representative of the industrial region of the technologically overburdened country of Zaporozhye, I would like to ask the drafters of the bill that more attention should be given to social work, such as child health, when working on the second reading. The point is that today we have or are not the only means to get people off the streets, from basements and from drugs by involving them in physical and mass work. And by no chance, we remember that in 2005, in an effort to implement some of the plans of Maidan, funding for children's sports schools in Ukraine was cut short. It's a tool that allows us to raise a person because a person can't be physically sick and spiritually rich if we don't work on creating a proper material base. And I would particularly like to draw the attention of the drafters to this situation: we should eventually think about some temporary little preferences for those industrial industrial industrial centers and enterprises that at our expense maintain and maintain a physical mass sports and health base. They need to make at least an atmosphere of interest. In general, this bill certainly needs to be adopted in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u116	Thank you. Others. Do you have it? Alexandrovska also has the wrong button. You mean, by a reduced procedure either "for" or "against" the buttons are pressed. And you were just pushing for a word from the place.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u117	Dear colleagues! I want to pay attention to more than one nuance. In general, the law is in force, and it is right that Deputy Samuel makes some adjustments because there is a need to go beyond that law and introduce new provisions that already concern family assistance. She can't be a happy child outside the family. And it is impossible to help a child if we cannot solve the problems of families. And you and I understand that these problems must not only be solved in terms of psychological or even material assistance, but these problems will be solved in the context of addressing all economic problems in Ukraine. A very important issue is the financing of these social services. Children's shelters have been established in Kharkiv region. Established by local authorities. They all have legal status. And today there is no money in local budgets to ensure their operations. Therefore, the important issue that we will have to resolve in finalizing the bill is the issue of financing this activity. That's a very serious question. I therefore propose to support this bill in its first reading and to finalize it in terms of funding. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u118	Okay. May I put it to a vote? I would only ask the drafters to take the project very seriously because you're actually proposing a new law. It's complicated and it's a lot more complicated than that. We need to work hard on all the standards. Here comes the vote. Please. [[13:08:52]] For 259. Decision taken. There is a proposal by the author for a draft Act amending the Ukrainian Higher Education Act, registration number 2093, to be transposed and withdrawn. Because he thinks that the standards that he's offered are actually regulated by legislation, and these supplements are not going to add anything. So I'm voting on a motion to withdraw this bill. This is a committee proposal. I'm asking you to back me up. We have to vote. [[13:09:45]] For 229 Decision taken. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Advertising Act is under consideration. [[on marketing communications]] Deputy Minister of Economy Sluzarenko Oksana Alexandrovna reports this project, registration number 2829. May I have your attention, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u119	Honourable Alexander Alexander, distinguished national MPs, the main purpose of the bill is to improve the legal regulation of advertising and to increase the level of protection of the rights of advertising consumers. Today, advertising is done not only through traditional means but also through the use of telecommunications networks, goods, and postal and telecommunications contracts, through stimulating marketing measures such as lotterys, competitions, visuals, discount sales. New advertisements are not regulated by law. Moreover, the lack of existing legislation to define the terms “advertising measures” and “special exhibition measures” does not in fact operate the norm of effective legislation on advertising for the prohibition of advertising of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages by means of advertising measures other than special exhibition measures. The absence of a clear distinction between advertising and the provision of information on goods that consumers have in accordance with consumer law are entitled to receive, allows advertising in the form of information on goods. The proposed bill removes the marked gaps in legislation. To this end, the bill defines the new terms “advertising measures”, “special exhibitions”, “stimulating marketing measures” and “advertisement at the point of delivery”. The Advertising Act is also complemented by new articles on how to advertise in places where goods are being implemented, advertisements using a telecommunications network, advertisements of goods that are being implemented under a contract with the use of a telecommunications network and postal connection, and advertisements of stimulating marketing measures. According to the proposed standards, first of all, advertising at the point of delivery of the goods should be separated from information that consumers have the right to receive accordingly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u120	Please let me finish, her opinion, she'll talk more.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u121	The adoption of the draft law will allow for the legal rules for the distribution of advertising at places of use of telecommunications products and for stimulating marketing measures aimed at preventing consumer rights violations and ensuring the right of consumers to receive objective information about products and their producers. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u122	Thank you. Have a seat, please. This included the report of the deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech to Elena Bondarenko. And she is, and I'm looking at where she's usually sitting, and I remember she's in the front. So please, Elena Anatolyevna is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u123	Deputies! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Indeed, the project provides for the introduction into the legislative field of Ukraine of such concepts as stimulating marketing, special exhibitions, advertising, advertising in places where goods are being implemented. The project also regulates the advertising of communications products, the establishment of restrictions on the distribution of indirect advertising, and the advertising of goods in a remote way. However, on October 20, Law 1044 was adopted, combined with 1044-1, and a comparative table distributed to the deputies is being prepared for the second reading. Bill 1044, adopted in the first reading, regulates the vast majority of the issues in Bill 2829, including internal advertising, advertising, special exhibitions, sponsorship, alcohol and tobacco advertising, and so on. In accordance with articles 89, 90 and 95 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, the bill can be withdrawn, but a number of problems raised in the bill, such as the advertising of communications products, the setting of restrictions on the distribution of indirect advertising, the advertising of goods in a remote way, are relevant and interesting. Therefore, we propose to finalize the bill by removing "alternative positions" by leaving "beneficial work". Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u124	Thank you for the brief report, convincing. Who wants to comment on this? Sign up. Alla Alexandrovna Alexandrovska wants to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u125	Thank you. But I support the bill, but I'm sorry, I didn't have a system, and that's why we tried to press the green button now to get "for" anyway. So if you'll excuse me, I don't need a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u126	Well, you've seen, the confirmation is that the system works flawlessly. So it's okay, we can keep looking at the questions. Yeah, well, since there's no one who wants to enter into a discussion on this, and the committee's proposal is that, on the basis of that, I get it, in terms of the new circumstances in the use of advertising, I think that if I said, for example, a brand, for example, there's shampoos, or what Helen Anatoliyevna is using to display brilliant and beautiful hair, that would be advertising, obviously. Right? I have no right to do that. And these warnings are obviously already in the law itself. That's why I'm putting this project to a vote. Please look, please support. [[13:16:29]] For 254 This is supported, such an offer. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the costs of State social insurance funds]] This project was prepared by Anatoly Ivanovich, Seminoga. I, he's not in the hall. But is Vassil Georgiyovich Hara of the committee, what is the committee's opinion on this law? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u127	Dear colleagues, as early as December, the Committee considered the bill of our colleague Seminoga and invited him to finalize and replace the submission of a completely different draft because there were too many comments. He has taken note of many comments, including our Chief Scientific and Expert Office, in particular regarding the arrangements for the placement of temporary funds in commercial bank deposits. However, a number of comments have been overlooked. For example, it proposes social insurance funds that are managed by the three parties to the social partnership and are self-governanced to make them earmarked public funds. That is, instead of social insurance, social security offers us social security, as it has been in our past life. Second. Such large problems remain in norm-setting technology. And third. He proposed that these State Treasury funds should be maintained on the rights of budgetary State funds. We know with you that the Social Insurance Fund is now being served by treasury. But if we move to the full service of public funds, well, first of all, it's five times the amount of treasury. It would therefore be necessary to increase the staffing and financial costs, respectively. Most importantly, the social benefits procedure will deteriorate considerably in this regard. But the most important thing in our view is that the committee proposes rejecting the bill because you and I have considered and adopted on first reading a bill on a single social contribution, the fund-servicing procedure has already been prescribed through the Pension Fund and so on. Therefore, this bill, not theoretically, is not nearly necessary in our State today, because I think that in May our committee will submit to the second reading the Single Social Contribution Act, which will streamline all social insurance issues, including financial services. The Committee therefore decided to invite the session room to reject the Seminoga Bill. I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u128	Please have a seat. Perhaps other thoughts or similar for confirmation are in the MPs, so I would like to write down who would like to express their view of the matter. Matvienkov Sergey Anatolyevich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u129	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Indeed, the issue is one of the most complex and difficult issues that have recently been discussed, which has recently been discussed. Social benefits should be the main consideration of the issue. In adopting any laws that we do not adopt, we must keep the social benefits that citizens of Ukraine receive, they must remain unchanged and, above all, must not be affected by the citizens of Ukraine, the workers who receive these social benefits. And when we adopted the Single Contributions Act, when we talked about establishing a single transparent system, we have already taken the first step to lay the foundation, foundation, foundation and foundation to address this problem. Indeed, so far there are many problems: both the use of these funds on depositories and the untransparent use of these funds, and the use of these funds is not intended. And we often face a situation where the official machine, so to speak, grows like a yeast in these funds. And we don't have the mechanisms for regulating these structures, and we have a problem when a person comes to get a little bit of money to solve their social problems, but he sees an army of officials pushing him out of the office into the office, a huge system to deal with this issue, and it's understandable that these people can't solve or get the money, and they're forced to walk, to push into the offices of those officials who get paid in this system. Therefore, in order to really reject this bill, to return and focus, to focus on a single social contribution system, to create a normal transparent system of control over them, to create a normal system of accounting for the funds used there, first of all, to take what I said, precisely the payments of our population, so that none of the existing systems that receive money so far will be affected. That's the biggest problem. We therefore propose that the bill be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u130	Thank you. Chechatov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u131	Dear Alexanderovich! Ladies and gentlemen of the people! I've noticed that the Bills that the BUT, Our Ukraine, are now very raw. This is due to the fact that there are no people in the room, they have already forgotten what legal work is. And only harm to the country from such bills. I don't think so. But nevertheless, there is a problem, and I want to hear what needs to be addressed. The bill has been proposed since 1 January 2007 to legislatively establish the arrangements for the maintenance of public trust funds by the State Treasury authorities and to clarify certain rules for the formation and use of the funds indicated. The drafter proposes that the funds be converted into state-owned insurance funds. In accordance with article 14, however, the basics of legislation on compulsory public social insurance for the administration and administration of certain types of public compulsory social insurance are placed on insurance funds that are nonprofit self - control organizations. With regard to the proposal to service the costs of insurance funds in the State Treasury, it should be noted that accounts for social insurance funds have been opened in the State Treasury today. However, the cost of these funds is managed without the use of control functions to target them, as is done under certain budgetary rules. In the case of the Fund’s full-duty operation, the State Department will increase more than fivefold, requiring a significant increase in resources. [[Well, what serious drafting of the bill is Mr. Seminoha talking about? Raw Bill]] So in our view, this bill needs to be rejected, and the problem is, it really needs to be drafted, a bill that has really benefited both the state and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, before putting the matter to the vote, I am obliged simply to object to Mikhail Vasilovich. The fact is that the absence of MPs in the room is the reason for the inadequacy of drafting the bill, not counting important provisions, and that certain political forces have forced MPs to demonstrate that they are putting new and many bills on Parliament's agenda to deal with people's problems have forced them to prepare these bills in haste. You have the obvious result. There's no quality at work. Everyone understands that the Seminog MP is a good specialist, and he could have drafted this bill, taking into account all the nuances, but this fire order is what makes this work. So I think by rejecting this bill, we're going to encourage him to work qualitatively on it, because it's really important. I'm voting on the proposal of a profile committee to reject this bill. [[13:25:25]] For 244 Decision taken. The draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Fundamentals for the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine is being reported. [[on the participation of charities and public organisations]] The registration number of this project, 2563, reports the head of the Committee’s Subcommittee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons, Alexei Vasilovich Radziewski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u133	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Lvivščina. Dear Alexander Sunich! Dear colleagues! This bill, prepared by the National MP Feldman, provides for the involvement of charities and public organizations in the implementation of State policy on the social protection of persons with disabilities and for the purpose of establishing certain preferences for them in Ukraine's basic law on the basis of social protection for persons with disabilities in Ukraine. I want to say right now that this bill was very carefully considered both on our committee of profiles and on other committees, and everyone came up with a single proposal to reject it. Its deviation is due to the fact that so many of these standards of the draft law are already provided for in the existing legislation on disability. And I don't think there's even a need to stop at those specific positions of the bill. The conclusion is asked and brought to your attention one: the bill is rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u134	Thank you. Have a seat, please. If you would like to make a statement on this subject, please write it down. Alexeyev. And Matthew. Samolica Katerina Seminovna, please, I see you've been preparing for the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u135	Dear colleagues, we are here with you in an emergency. The Supreme Council of Ukraine always adopts laws aimed at social protection for people, especially those with limited opportunities. And this is the first time in my life, and for all of the existence of Parliament, a member of the Volodymyrnian bloc of Volodymyrna Timoshenko is doing everything to narrow down the rights of the disabled. This is because there are people in this faction who are truly heroically experiencing what they have limited possibilities, they don't have the possibilities that we have. And so I think, and the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, we're going to support the decision of the profiling committee: we're going to reject it. First of all, you have not yet said, colleague, that this bill is contrary to the Basic Law of Ukraine, the Constitution of Ukraine, which prohibits the restriction of rights on our people. And once again, the first faction that advocates itself as a social rights fighter who criticises the coalition and criticises the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine exposes itself to such conditions that it is virtually impossible for the disabled to take advantage of their limited capabilities. And that's why we're proposing to reject it, and we want to say to all the disabled organizations, look, who's really supporting you, please. The government coalition, the coalition of national unity, will not allow Feldman and his factions to realize what they have proposed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u136	Please, Sergey Kuzmenko instead of Matvienkov. Yuri Alexiyovich, keep your voice down. Yuri Alexiyovich. Just keep it down. You're talking about another law right now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u137	Thank you very much. Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! I would like to say no to the adoption of this bill for the following reasons. In fact, if you read it carefully, this bill has only one main purpose: to allow yourself to avoid administrative charges that can be imposed on any organization if they violate existing legislation. So Mr. Feldman and the people who have initiated this bill besides him want to reduce their own administrative economic sanctions against them if they violate their legislation. In my opinion, this is nothing more than a "chuck to throw into the river" and, therefore, this bill cannot be adopted at all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u138	Thank you. I think the argument is enough, although I think the reason is the same: the project was quick to prepare to show the number of these projects, and instead of worrying about people, there was concern. Therefore, it is logical for the committee to reject the bill. I put him to the vote. [[13:32:19]] For 251 Thank you. 251 – in favour, the decision is taken. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities is under consideration. Radziewsky Alexei Vasilovich, Ukrainian national deputy, also reports. And the co-reporter is Yuri Zubko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u139	Alexei Radziewsky, faction of the Party of the Regions, Lvivščina Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The current law on the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities in Ukraine, which defines the basic principles of the functioning of the system of physical, mental, social well-being of persons with disabilities, unfortunately, did not take into account such an important component of the whole set of measures and laws that would be aimed at increasing spirituality and the general culture, intellectual abilities, talent discovery, the development of personal creativity, social activity. This would contribute to the adaptation of people with disabilities in society and would be in line with the basic principles of standard rules for ensuring equal opportunities for persons with disabilities adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. Thus, with the aim of contributing to the self-implementation of persons with disabilities, establishing autonomy and social adaptation, and preparing the Ukrainian Law on Change to Certain Legislation on the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities. Taking into account the requirements of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the standard rules for ensuring equal opportunities for persons with disabilities, the draft law proposes to supplement the existing laws of Ukraine with provisions that allow for the expansion of state policy in the area of rehabilitation of persons with disabilities through socio-cultural and creative rehabilitation. This will certainly provide the disabled with additional opportunities to use their creative, artistic, intellectual potential for harmonious personality development. The Committee on Pensioners, Veterans, and Disabled Persons reviewed the draft Ukrainian Law and recommended its adoption as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u140	Please, the Word has Yuri Zubko from the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u141	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national MPs, the Ukrainian Act on Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts on Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities in relation to Social and Creative Rehabilitation proposes to complement the existing legislative framework in the field of social protection and rehabilitation of persons with disabilities with such an important component of the rehabilitation package as socio-cultural and creative rehabilitation, which aims to improve the spirituality, the general culture, intellectual skills, talents, the development of personal creativity, social activity and self-implementation, and ultimately the adaptation of persons with disabilities in society. In addition, the bill also foresees expanding the direction of use of administrative sanctions and pennies coming from the State budget of Ukraine to the Fund for Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities, namely the financing of measures for social and cultural and creative rehabilitation of persons with disabilities. The Cabinet of Ministers has their comments on this bill, but I would like to say that socio-cultural and creative rehabilitation is an important component of a complex rehabilitation process for talented but incompetent fellow citizens, because the joy of creativity gives them tremendous inspiration, especially in difficult conditions today. It is only worthwhile to ensure in the subjective sphere, in the context of sectoral problems, that people with disabilities have access to Ukrainian and world culture and that they are encouraged to be creative. On the basis of this, please support the draft decision on the adoption of the project as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u142	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to comment on this? Shentz, please, and Kilinkarov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u143	Please give the floor to the National MP, Samuelka Catherine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u144	Catherine Semenovna, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u145	He'll be speaking, too. I won't talk much for a long time. I want to go to the radio audience and say, right now, we're looking at two laws: one restricts the rights of the disabled and the other supports the disabled. And this is our government coalition, our coalition of national unity, our real, patriotic, our national coalition. I want to tell you that the law is about people who are limited in their physical ability, but they always work and their desire to be needed by society and to be like all of us with you, they really compensate this limit by what the Lord God has given them, by someone to paint paintings, by someone to make beautiful wood products, by someone else to do something. And I want to tell you, despite the fact that the government has made a number of observations, we can postpone the deadline for the introduction of this bill, but these people are the people that our coalition of national unity supports in order to flourish our talents, in order for our crafts to flourish, and finally we are doing the same thing and the President's promise that he was talking about creating additional jobs. This is going to be an extra job for you, and this is going to be the feeling of these people that they're going to feel like they're really citizens of our country, useful to our people who are needed for our people. I think we're all going to support this bill together. And I think we're going to give such a wonderful gift to our disabled people on the first day of May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-17-m0.u146	Thank you, and thank you for the support of the President. So I'd like to see what they're paying attention to. Catherine Semenovna is right about people with these signs reacting differently to the world. Harder, deeper. And their reaction, especially in creativity, can be a demonstration and a model for us, for all other people. So the duty of society is to create conditions for them to realize themselves. I have correspondence with many creative people from various cities, and they don't complain about their condition, they give their works, collections of poetry, works of art, etc. They thus confirm that they share the same perception of life, but, again, above, nobler, sharper. And this should be a lesson for all to appreciate the moments in life. Because such a human nature requires it. I think that the proposal and the drafters of the bill, and Catherine Simeonna, who was convincing in her speech, will motivate us for this project. I put him to the vote. Please. [[13:41:50]] For 245 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, MPs! The Cabinet of Ministers had already proposed that the Act on Shareholder Associations should be incorporated into the agenda after the day’s agenda for today’s session. And what I'm trying to say is that it touches the very important sphere of activity of our people, especially those who engage in entrepreneurial activities. So there's a proposal for us to include it, you study it separately, and then we'll look at it on the Conciliation Council, and we'll figure it out when we get it under consideration. But today I would like to support the offer of the Cabinet of Ministers and incorporate it into the agenda of today's session. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Registration number 3177. [[13:42:53]] For 256 Decision taken. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to make an announcement, even two announcements. First. Literally, 15 minutes from now, a meeting of the Consultative Council will begin at the head of the Supreme Council on local self - government, regional policy, with the participation of district council leaders, mayors of a whole range of cities. The main issue that will be addressed is to ensure the interests of the regions of the local councils in the drafting of the Budget Resolution and the budget for the following year. I'm making this announcement so that, first of all, for society to demonstrate that all normal people understand that Parliament is working in accordance with its functions and its status, first of all. And second of all, I'm talking to the MPs about having district council heads here. If you have common questions that you would like to discuss with them, you can do so. Take advantage of the opportunity to meet and discuss the issues that concern your voters today in the respective regions. In the meantime, we have considered the questions raised today. After lunch, meetings will be held on committees. And I'd like to go more closely to the drafting of bills, especially those that are not present at the meeting, so that we don't miss the reasonable thoughts that come from our colleagues today who are forced not to participate in the session, but to prepare the relevant bills. Thank you. The morning session is closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., the session will resume its work.
