ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national MPs, guests, journalists, invited by the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. [[10:00:49]] There are 257 national deputies registered in the session hall, and the morning session of the Supreme Council is publicized. Dear colleagues, let me welcome all of you, the entire Ukrainian people, especially the cowards, to the fact that yesterday a fairly wise and fair decision was made to hold the 2012 European Championship in our country and, in particular, its finals in Kiev. [[Applause]] The Supreme Council and the National Deputies, as you know, have joined in, and today we are going to have to make the last point, namely, to adopt a law in the final edition dedicated to organizing and holding the final part of the European Championship in Ukraine and Poland. Well, we're interested, of course, in Ukraine. Today is Nadosha Oleg Volodymyrovich's birthday, let's welcome him, he's in our midst. [[Applause]] We wish he'd be within the walls of the Supreme Council for another year. And literally two words of information. There's a lot of noise, you know, about the fact that some people don't want to work, and they want to volunteer for their parliamentary powers. I'll inform you that there is no statement in the Supreme Council at this time. And I can honestly say that I'm looking forward to these applications, and I promise, as soon as these applications arrive, we'll meet immediately and we'll look at these statements, and some can get confirmation of what he wants. Once again, I would like to remind all those who are commenting on who is going to the television screen: before you go there, knowing what questions you will have, look into the Constitution and do not disgrace yourself and the Supreme Council, of whom you are the representatives, for excuse me, some of the national MPs are carrying from the television screens that they are simply discrediting the Supreme Council, and all from the fact that they are not going to the meetings and are not looking into the Constitution. I want to remind them, and for our radio audiences, I want to remind them of an 81st article that clearly says who, when, who gets deprived of whom. Article 81a says that it is the Supreme Council's personal statement that is determined by the Supreme Council, and I've already said that we'll be happy to consider some of these statements. Let them come. Some want to go the other way. There is also such a provision in 81 articles that when there is no MP or a national MP coming out of one faction or another, according to 81 articles, the political power that delegated him has the right to deprive him of his parliamentary powers. But in doing so, even lawyers, known as lawyers, cite this article as a rather substantial addition to this article or to the substantial 2 words in this article. And I'll read it to you in full. This is the last paragraph of article 81. “In the event of the absence of a national deputy of Ukraine elected by a political party to form a parliamentary faction of this political party or the withdrawal of the Ukrainian national deputy from such a faction of its mandate shall be suspended in time on the basis of law by decision of the higher governing body of the relevant political party from the date of such decision.” [[political party constituency]] [[political party constituency]] [[political party constituency]] Those who collect statements are informed: there is no law, unfortunately we have not yet passed a law with you to regulate these issues. This is when the law, according to article 81 of the Constitution, is adopted, then let them write such statements and conduct the interparty assemblies that some are about to hold today. Those who will conduct will have to count the number of parties in their block and whether all parties will participate in the convention. In short, it's all just another pyar action that shows that they are well aware that the President's decree is unconstitutional and they're looking for others, sorry for such a non-parliamentary word, a stalemate to mislead our voters. Today, according to the decision of the Conciliation Board, we have 30 minutes to present statements by authorized representatives of factions and proposals, announcements, statements, messages and speeches by national MPs. Please sign up for the performances. What about the handouts? Yes, please sign in. Yes, not just sign up for the MPs then. What? Yes, they are. Dear colleagues, wait. Have you been given an address to the Parliamentary Assembly and a statement by the Supreme Council? De reps. Dear colleagues, then let us then listen to the speeches with you. In view of the fact that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is now beginning to consider the urgent debate on the situation surrounding the situation in Ukraine, and I would like to inform you that the Head of the Supreme Council has held this meeting today, it is proposed to include in the agenda and to consider Supreme Council Resolution 3478 on the referral of the Supreme Council to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and to accept the statement of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the impermissibility of extremist actions around the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Please support these suggestions. We are voting for inclusion in the agenda and consideration. [[10:08:52]] For 240 It's on. So let me introduce you to how many of you, because you have these materials, like those who listen and closely monitor the work of the Supreme Council. Address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe “On 2 April 2007, President Yushchenko of Ukraine signed the decree on the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. A political and legal assessment of this act has already been made by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in its declaration on the unconstitutional involvement of the President of Ukraine in the activities of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which has already been brought to the attention of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the organisation of security and cooperation in Europe. By repeatedly reaffirming its respect for and loyalty to the Constitution of Ukraine and the international commitment of our nation, the Supreme Council of Ukraine firmly stated that the solution to this artificially provoked conflict could only be resolved in the legal plane on the basis of the most prominent mechanisms in the Constitution. In such a situation, the Constitutional Court, as the sole body of Ukrainian constitutional jurisdiction, should give a legal assessment of the President's decree. In the ten-year history of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine in Ukrainian society, respect for its decisions has been shown for our commitment to the universal democratic standards and to the ideas of the rule of law. Following these fundamental principles, the Supreme Council of Ukraine confirmed that it would agree with any decision of the Constitutional Court and at the same time warned against any attempt to pressure it. However, with the Constitutional Court of Ukraine’s decision to open the case, the President of Ukraine, contrary to Part Two of Part Two, Article 126 of the Constitution of Ukraine, which prohibits the influence of judges in any way, ignoring the constitutional status of the guarantor of compliance with the Constitution of Ukraine, publicly meets with the judges of this court, imposing on them his view of the situation. Unfortunately, these forms of pressure on the Constitutional Court were not limited. The President of Ukraine threatened the judges, whom he himself appointed to suspend their powers for the term, which apparently is the same legal status as the permanent cessation of parliamentary powers. The victim of blackmail by the Ukrainian President of the Security Service was a referee in the constitutionality test of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the permanent termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth call. Today, when the Constitutional Court finally began to discuss the constitutionality of this decree, the opposition, shamelessly disregarding morals and the law, tried to block the work of the Constitutional Court. The legal arguments missing from the first day of the State’s trial replaced the brutal violence against judges. In her statement on the pressure of the President of Ukraine to the Constitutional Court of Ukraine since 9 April 2007, the Supreme Council stated that it reserves the right to seek the assistance of international mediators, international organizations, sovereign states to resolve the political situation in our country on the basis of the principles of democratic society that are widely known in the world. Now is the time. At this time, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe is hearing from a political crisis in Ukraine. The deputies of the Supreme Council of Ukraine believe that their colleagues in the Parliamentary Assembly should be more fully aware of the recent developments surrounding the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We hope that, taking into account this, which belongs to all previous resolutions of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, balance and legal perfection will be the heart of its decision on the resolution of the political crisis in Ukraine, which we hope will prevent further pressure from the individual political forces on the Constitutional Court of Ukraine.” I'm voting on the proposal to accept this motion as a basis. Please vote. [[10:13:33]] For the 250. Copy that. Can we, in general, make a determination with reference? Then I am ordering the Supreme Council to refer the Supreme Council of Ukraine to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, registration number 3478. Please vote. [[10:14:05]] For 252 It's been decided. We will now address this call to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. And, honourable colleagues, there is an offer to accept the statement made by the Supreme Council of the following content. Statement by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the inadmissibility of extremist actions around the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine wants to convey to the Ukrainian society its vision of the situation around the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which is considering the constitutionality of the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the permanent cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's fifth vocation. The Supreme Council of Ukraine is convinced that the legal solution to the controversial situation associated with the different views of the parties to the conflict is only possible on the basis of recognition and enforcement of the decision of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the only body of constitutional jurisdiction in the State. This approach coincides with the position of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe on overcoming political instability and strengthening democratic institutions in Ukraine, according to which the decision of the Constitutional Court should play a decisive role in the context of the legal settlement of political conflict. However, today’s realities show that the Constitutional Court of Ukraine is operating under conditions that are not normal for the activities of an authority that is to make a country’s decision. There are situations that cannot be judged differently than pressure on judges, and they are compromised. The excessive and inadequate activity of individual political leaders is accompanied by unacceptable statements and comments, the use of outright non-legal means of political influence, and the physical power of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Since the independence and impartiality of the courts are guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, the relevant law enforcement authorities must respond at the same time to any attempts of pressure and unfair influence on the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The Supreme Council of Ukraine insists on putting an immediate end to the pressure on judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and bringing to justice those responsible for influencing judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Who is in favour of accepting this statement by the Supreme Council regarding the inadmissibility of extremist actions around the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, please vote. A statement is being voted on as a whole. [[10:17:03]] For 246 Report accepted. Yes, thank you, dear colleagues. Now let's move on to. Yes, please show me, reinstate those who sign up. The "Council" system, what happened? We've already made records. Why did you eliminate what was done? I remind you again, we've already done the recording. He was on our monitors. Where did he go, this recording? Yes, there was the first recorded Baranowski. Please, Bondarczuk of the Socialist faction from the Marmazov Communists.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winniczkin. Honorable colleagues, respected radio audiences, TV sets, and media representatives! The National Unity Coalition, which is the majority of the Supreme Council, has repeatedly stated its willingness to implement any decision of the Constitutional Court to translate the resolution of the social and political conflict, and more specifically, the conflict between individual authorities into the constitutional plane, to ensure the rule of law as provided for in article 8 of the Basic Law of Ukraine, eventually to create a precedent for a civilised solution to disputes that may arise between branches and institutions of government as adopted in civilized democratic societies. In 2004, the team of candidates to the Presidents of Ukraine, Viktor Fedorovich Janukovic, demonstrated respect for the court’s decision. However, it's perfectly clear and it's an axiom that finding compromises is only possible if all sides of the conflict want it. Unfortunately, the political forces that make up the minority in Parliament, as well as some non-parliamentary forces that have joined the opposition and jointly demonstrate legal ignorance do not want to go that way, radicalize the situation and essentially push the country into a violent solution to the conflict. That is how you can appreciate yesterday’s statements by the bloc’s leader in his name, Yulia Timoshenko, who declared to all Ukraine that the Constitutional Court’s decision would mean nothing to her, the apiori rejected the possibility of resolving the conflict in the legal plane. Her second new mission, or at least a candidate for this role, has recently led a strong ministry and has sworn on all the crosses in his loyalty to the Constitution. Such claims and appeals cannot be viewed as children’s entertainment. The problem of Tymoshenko, not the Ukrainian people, is her uncontrollable pathological, but, more precisely, the clinical desire for power that she, as a destructive genius, will never benefit the people. In the absence of time, I will not continue on this subject. However, our faction believes that its allegations of inadmissibility and failure to comply with the decisions of the Constitutional Court should be subject to careful analysis in the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine, because, to our deep conviction, they pose a threat to the State and the constitutional system, to territorial integrity, they provoke an increase in resistance in society, and they push civil disobedience. The Henprosecutor’s Office should give a legal assessment of the same conclusion as to whether they fall within the jurisdiction of article 37 of the Constitution. On the basis of the conclusions of the Henprocuratorium, the Supreme Council of Ukraine will make the appropriate decisions. We shouldn't go near Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u3	No, I won't. Have a seat, please. Learn. I'm sorry, but we've been getting a little out of ourselves these past few days. Please, Marmazov. But before he does, unfortunately, we're missing records. What you remember is good. But I don't remember. You can remember. So please sign up now from the national deputies for the performance. If he falls, he'll pass it on. Wait, please. National deputies, sign up. Yeah, well, I'm sorry, but we're going to follow the same list as we do now. So the factions, of course, are going to get each faction. Matthew the sixth. And Matthew's still giving Marmazov three minutes. Six minutes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u4	The recent statements and actions of President Yushchenko and those on which he relies show that they are prepared to apply force to the lawfully elected Parliament, the Government and even to the Constitutional Court. Well, yesterday, you have to say it was a black day in Ukraine. The law enforcement authorities were forced to apply force for the first time during the confrontation. And it was provoked again by the pro-presidential forces. It follows that the President, who declares that he will submit to any decision of the Constitutional Court, and immediately his party, where he is the Honorary President, is going to block the Constitutional Court from allowing judges to work. We had everything in Ukraine, but we've never had such a disgrace. And this is done after Yushchenko's overwhelming statements, including those he did in Brussels, that there will be no force option in Ukraine. How can this person be trusted, whether the President is independent of his actions or unable to resist the sudden pressure of the leaders of BUT, Our Ukraine, other national extremist organizations? Yushchenko likes to talk about the rule of law, about her morals. But what morality can Yushchenko speak of if he violates the law at every step, stamps the Constitution, demotically ignores judicial decisions and calls himself a Democrat. At a recent press conference, he devoted almost half the time to justify his decree on the early termination of the Supreme Council. By doing so, Yushchenko clearly wishes to justify his illegal, anti-constitutional actions, but not a loud voice, nor the repeated repetitions of the same false ideas have filled out the lack of logic and arguments. I can't help but say the following. The Parliamentary Coalition met Yushchenko. You see, we have brought our composition into line with what it was at the time of creation, amended the Rules of the Supreme Council, declared readiness to amend the Cabinet of Ministers Act, and agreed to consider other conflict issues. Now what's wrong with Yushchenka? How to talk to a person who persists in his illegal, in fact, criminal acts is seeking the surrender of Parliament. But isn't it time we stopped and pointed to the President? How much can you give him? It turns out that we are no longer understood by the people, our constituents. I would like to read only the recently received letter from Ternopol. I read: “Mr. Marmazov, in your statement at the session of the Supreme Council, you stated that Yushchenko is President only of Western Ukraine. Please don't insult us, all of us. Be more accurate in these tense days to the Ukrainian people, because after the violation of the Yushchen Constitution it is for us that he has finally lost his authority as a man and has become outside the law as President. The Constitution is a sacred thing, and if it is violated even by the one we stood for on Maidan, it covers itself with shame and can no longer be considered our President, he must go through impeachment and answer to the law. Young teachers and students thinking Ternopilian universities, including the one in which V.A. was taught. [[Brackets]] Juicy and signatures. Yes, I think we must stand firm on the requirements of the Constitution, the rule of law, not to resort to any concessions that will allow Yushchenko and his associates to bring to a conclusion the coup d'état for all the evil they have already done to our people, they must suffer the punishment and they must bear it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u5	Yes, please, from the faction of the Gorbenko Natalija Region Party, please, and it is handed over by Netecka, six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u6	Gorbenko, faction of Party regions. Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! With deep concern and anxiety about tomorrow’s country’s parliamentary faction of the Party of Regions has been forced to say that the latest statements and actions of the so-called opposition have led the political situation in Ukraine to a very dangerous limit, to a boiling point. The transition remains one step further, and the country will fall into a crackdown of public opposition, where not only plans for the quality of Euro-2012 football will sink, but also all the prospects of European Ukraine as such. Last night, it became clear to all who are fighting and what they are fighting for in our country — who is working for its development every day and who is interested in only the warm places and money in their own pocket. It is remarkable that a white-haired political adventurer summoned citizens to barricades at a time when the Yanukovic government overcame the economic crisis, when politicians for whom the future state is not an empty sound. There was a real opportunity to compromise the interests of society. As soon as President Yushchenko publicly announced the possibility of reaching a political agreement with the National Unity Coalition, Timoshenko immediately pushed the people into a “last and decisive fight”. But is that what people need today? No, of course not. The people need a paid job, a life without shocks in a stable, democratic country. Society has grown tired of the constant political hysteria of “the Führer in his skirt”. What is being improved by the people on the barricades? And it itself is unable to do anything today and only to destroy the economy. The hair of a politically concerned lady, who has guided the government in her own free time, is now learning to work with others, almost becoming a nuisance on the neck of a domestic economy. Today, this hair is tightly tied to the neck of the entire nation, threatening to block the country’s path to normal development. After pushing the decree of dissolution of the Supreme Council from the head of state and deliberately making the President's political positions extremely fragile, so-called opposition today pushes Victor Yushchenk back into more brutal action to make him guilty of the deterioration of the situation in our country if he is to hide himself as a living shield. In fact, the opposition no longer conceals the attempt to take the President into political hostages, to turn him into an element of the realization of his demonic plans for the capture of all power in Ukraine. The country is waiting for what role the head of state will eventually take for himself. The goal, according to scientists today, is to implement tools. The arsenal of the cynics of national opposition is known as the taking of political hostages who can be both President and ordinary citizens of our country if they give in to provocation and go to the barricades to fight for other people's interests. This is the moral and physical pressure of the Constitutional Court today. This is unprecedented for a political power that calls itself democratic. Finally, this is an open blackmail that occurred yesterday from the mouth of the leaders of the BUT faction and “Our Ukraine” in the form of an application for the approval of the National Deputies of two factions. We assure you that talking about the appointment of deputies of “Our Ukraine” and “BUT” is nothing more than another lie of our people of Ukraine, a bluff of political shulers that does not interfere with Parliament's work. In addition to the logic shown today, opposition factions have in fact acknowledged the legitimacy of the Fifth Council, the fact that Parliament is in operation. To make sure of this, it is sufficient to make sure that statements of opposition are addressed to the current and legitimate Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By doing so, opposition leaders not only turn themselves into a deaf corner but also put themselves in an awkward position of members of their factions, who are increasingly unwilling to remain gunned down in the war waged by hysterical and unpredictable leaders today. What is the outcome for today that we can offer to the political class in society? The only real way to deal with the current political crisis is by the Party of the Regions to hold an honest and responsible discussion. By excluding emotional statements and by putting aside insults, we should offer an optimal way out of the deaf corner into which the state has been driven by gas milady intrigues. We propose to the head of state.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u7	Thank you. No, sit down, please. Alexandrovska Alla. After her, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u8	Dear colleagues, the analysis of events in Ukraine shows attempts to implement the scenario of managed chaos in Ukraine by orange politicians. We now understand why they scandalously imposed on the first day of the session of the Supreme Council a review of the alleged threat of loss of Ukrainian ownership to a strategically important facility, the Ukrainian gas transport system. Although we understood it at the time, we all understood this and talked about it on several occasions in the Hall that the issue had been resolved. There is already a law in place that prohibits any form of alienation from the property of Ukraine of this strategically important object. We now understand that the smoke screen was the bottling of the beatlings about the injustice of high tariffs. Indeed, they have subsequently disrupted the consideration of a bill drawn up by members from a coalition majority, which should indeed provide substantive assistance to those who are poor. Most importantly, it is the State's responsibility to place the tariff system under control. And as you know, you and I have been forced to postpone consideration of this issue, and just next week, I hope that we will finally consider this issue. They insisted on accelerating the formation of the Court, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, here in this room. Today, we see that they are taking aggressive action to bring the court down. What is the true objective of the “orange” aggressors and destroyers? I think this goal is getting clearer and clearer. They do not need a single, prosperous, independent Ukraine. They need Ukraine as a platform for aggression, aggression by those masters whose true aims do not wish to sound, covering the issue of allegedly protecting the interests of the people of Ukraine. You and I must not allow the breakup of Ukraine. We must not allow the destruction of Ukraine. We must not allow the weakening of Ukraine and we will be able to do so with you. Therefore, any attempt by the “orange” to break the constitutional decision, to break the constitutional court's consideration of the legality of the President's Order, any attempt to question “the legitimacy of the work of the Supreme Council”, we must deal with you against these attempts, explain to our constituents the true goals of today's bulwarks and oranges, and the true role that is unfortunately being played in Ukraine. fulfils the person who is the only guarantor of the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u9	Matvienkov gives Melniczuk the word, and he also has the opportunity to speak. Six minutes, please. Black Sea to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u10	Mikhailo Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Chernobyl Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I have the honour of having the coalition read out a statement on the events of April 18, 2007 around the Constitutional Court of Ukraine: “Today, the whole country and the whole world have witnessed an unprecedented challenge to the principles of democracy made by a number of representatives of the so-called ‘democratic opposition’. In society's eyes, using parliamentary intrusiveness and crude physical strength, a group of deputies and politicians from BUT, “Our Ukraine” and national self-defence attempted to disrupt the meetings of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which deals with a question that defines, without exaggeration, Ukraine's further fate. Political extremists have reached the last limit of legal nihilism — contempt for the Constitution and the law, obstructing the work of the judges of the Constitutional Court. In the same way they demonstrated their true nature, which has nothing to do with all the claims made by them now, both in the country and in the European parliamentary institutions. The political forces, as in 2005 and 2006, demonstrated their full administrative incompetence and lost power. They are now trying to regain this power without trampling on the most brutal, even savage, methods. Under conditions where the Constitutional Court has remained the only universally recognized Ukrainian society and the world society a legitimate structure for resolving the political crisis, such actions threaten not only the democratic future of our country but also the very existence of a sovereign Ukraine. Today, the Constitutional Court is the last link of the legal system that now holds society from open civil opposition, the economy from chaos, and the state from destruction. With a hand on the judges, the deputies of the opposition demonstrated to the people of Ukraine, to the whole world, that they were willing to pay any price for their return to power. Even if that is the price of civil conflict and the collapse of Ukrainian statehood. As members of the National Unity Coalition, we are determined not to allow for a coup d’état. We appeal to the people of Ukraine as the only source of government to say their weighty word to the merchants of prominent political adventurers who decided that they were allowed to raise their hands on Ukraine and its future. We demand that the President of Ukraine, as the guarantor of the Constitution, influence decisively the representatives of the political forces to which he gives priority and support. We expect law enforcement agencies that are called upon to protect the Constitution, the rights of Ukrainian citizens, the harsh and effective response to the actions of the rebels, the observance of the law and the Constitution of Ukraine in the State by ensuring the normal functioning of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We are convinced that the extremist Sabbath of April 18, 2007, near the Constitutional Court, was the latest resurgence of totalitarianism, a failed attempt to overthrow Ukraine in the past. The National Unity Parliamentary Coalition assures the people of Ukraine and the entire world co-operation that we will overcome the rematchers, and Ukraine will necessarily be among the stable, rich, developed, democratic and legal countries of Europe. National Unity Coalition, April 18, the city of Kiev. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u11	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. Blackmore. You don't? Chechatov. Black sea microphone, please. Huh? Kirichenko? Please, Kirichenko. Behind her is Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u12	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected voters! Yesterday's event is another exacerbation of political opposition. The egregious fact of political impunity was the exclusion of judges from the Constitutional Court building and the provocation by the President's Secretariat. I believe that such acts should be considered unlawful, and instigators should be held criminally accountable. Political responsibility lies with the so-called democratic opposition. The provocations on the street confirm the opposition in agony. Yesterday's show on the composition of parliamentary mandates is another hysterical attempt to eliminate Parliament and destabilization in the country. The real goal of the opposition is to take power at all costs. And there's no law for her. Where did the democratic slogans of the orange court go? Today, the opposition has strongly violated the Constitution and the law, but permissiveness has nothing to do with democracy. The opposition was dismayed when it realized that the growth of the economy and the improvement of social policy had long been rejected by the Yanuković Government, so it sought to destroy all the institutions of public administration. And let him. Chaos. She's not in the mood for a dialogue. The worse the people live, the better. In fact, she declared war on the people. As Head of the All-Ukrainian Public Organization, I would like to stress to the President of Ukraine, not the opposition. I assure you, the people are tired of fighting and revolutions, from Ukraine's further attempts to divide Ukraine into our Ukraine and not ours. For days you have promised, Mr. President, a peaceful settlement of the problem to the European society. So why are you being so condescending to those who are pushing the nation to ruin? Not a single step from street sweeps to civil war, but half a step. We demand that the constitutional guarantor return the situation in Ukraine to the legal field and stop the destructive trends. You must personally exercise good will and recognize the rule of law and walk away from double standards, and I will tell the leaders of the opposition: “Deaden your dust, stop, desist, stability, civil understanding and well-being of fellow citizens of any political ambition”. I appeal to all the institutions of the State: “Ukraine is in danger, threatened by its very statehood, peace and peace of our citizens, do not allow unconstitutional developments, lawlessness can lead to bloodshed, and if that is what our constituents want, every family will dream of it. We are for the future of Ukraine.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u13	Thank you. Mikhailo Chechetov. Microphone, please, follow him, Kowalevski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u14	Dear Adam Ivanovich, please give the floor to the national MP, Ekaterina Samajlik. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u15	And that's the right thing to do. Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u16	Dear defenders of the Constitution! Dear people of Ukraine! Ukraine is in danger, and fascism also comes with this confirmation of what happened yesterday. Ukraine is on the verge of political and economic chaos, which has been artificially planned and organized by the President of Ukraine, the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, the Block of Yulia Timoshenko and Our Ukraine. The state has not seen so much pressure and blackmail on the Constitutional Court. The National Coalition deputies of Ukraine believe that the judges of the Constitutional Court will be faithful to the oaths of the people of Ukraine and the Constitution. We believe that what will be created will not be a precedent for the corruption of the constitutional principles of our state, we must all do everything to protect the Constitution, the sovereignty of our state. I am speaking on behalf of all colleagues to Ukrainian citizens, teachers and doctors, scientists and peasants. Today, all of us must stand up for our own daughter - in - law in Ukraine. I am addressing teachers and directors, especially Darnice, who sent teachers to the Constitutional Court to knock down the Constitutional Court. Yes, you should thank the coalition and the government of national unity for the steps we have taken in support of the teaching of Ukraine. We address everyone and the President. Does the President not see that the regents Timoshenko and Kirilenko, Lucenko, are actually laying the fascist principles of our nation, that they are dividing Ukraine into their own and foreigners, that for their political interests they are willing to sell Ukraine along with its people, as long as they reach power. Mrs. Timoshenko and Yushchenko, you feel uncomfortable in Ukraine, go outside. Julia Volodymyrna. Go to England. Bake pancakes, please, your son-in-law. Victor Andryovich, go to your mother-in-law and eat these. Do not disturb Ukraine, the Ukrainian people, the government of Ukraine to do everything in order to have order in our country. We demand: hands away from the Constitutional Court, hands away from the Constitution, hands away from Ukraine, the sovereign state! Political bandits are prisons! People are worthy of a peaceful life! I appeal to all of you, all of you, for the protection of your homeland, all of you, for the protection of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u17	Thank you, Catherine Seed. Dear colleagues, our time has run out, which has been taken away from the factions and national deputies. We had the opportunity once again to see that today, especially from the performances of the beautiful sex, there were quite good grades. This is a testimony that, indeed, we have a weak gender policy and we need as many women as possible to be in the walls of the Supreme Council. And I think next time we'll fix this with you. So let's move on to the day-to-day issues. Yesterday you and I decided that today we would hear information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Attorney General about the situation that took place on April 18, 2007 around the premises of the Constitutional Court and the use and relation of the response measures. Please welcome Vasil Petrovich Zushko, Minister of Internal Affairs. Prepare for the discharge of the Attorney General. Please, Vasil Petrovich, 10 minutes for your information.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u18	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! I would like to report to you on the situation that took place yesterday near the Constitutional Court building. On 18 April 2007, at 5:30 p.m., representatives of the Coalition of National Unity, which was stationed on the sidewalks along the streets of Žiljanska and Antonović, began to meet at the Constitutional Court, Street of Žiljanska. At approximately 7 p.m., representatives of the opposition arrived at the Constitutional Court building: the political party “Our Ukraine”, the election block of Timoshenko, the public movement “People's Self-Defense” headed by the people's deputies from these political organizations. At 8 a.m., more than 10,000 citizens were already present near the Constitutional Court, of whom about 6,000 were representatives of the coalition and over 6,000 were representatives of the opposition. In view of these circumstances, the Ministry of Internal Affairs in Kiev has provisionally adopted measures aimed at ensuring public order and road safety, namely, the development of appropriate calculations of the forces and means used to protect the order, the limited traffic on the streets of Žiljanska and Antonović, and restrictive chains from militia personnel have been set up to prevent citizens from entering the street. As a result of a large pool of citizens from Antonovic Street, corridors from militia personnel were set up for the free passage of seats to the workplace. At 9 p.m., a group of young people presented themselves as assistants to the people's deputies and took up their arms during the course of the course of the judges along that corridor blocked the entrance to the court of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. The people's deputies of Ukraine, however, were on the side of the opposition, who blocked the way to the court for judges and journalists invited, thereby creating a conflict situation. At that time, the President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Dombrovsky Ivan Petrovic, telephoned the Ministry of the Interior and asked the police to facilitate the smooth passage of judges to their workplaces. The Deputy President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Mr. Pšeničny, also addressed the militia on the ground, saying that the Ukrainian people's deputies and their assistants who had blocked the entrance to the court had been imprisoned by Judge Stanik and had demanded that she be released immediately, in his words, could be strangled there. As soon as he was contacted by the police, the Berkut special forces had taken steps to release Judge Stannik, as the people's deputies who had blocked the entrance to the prison had begun to obstruct it. Police officers had to step up quickly and ensure passage to the court of the Constitutional Court of Judges of the Constitutional Court. Thereafter, all judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine who were on the street freely entered the premises. In view of the current situation, a living corridor has also been established between groups of supporters of various political forces, thus avoiding clashes between opponents. In so doing, no deliberate measures of physical impact have been applied to the present citizens and people's deputies of Ukraine, as well as to the specialities of the police. The actions of the militia were legitimate, adequate situations and were in line with the requirements of the Ukrainian Constitution and the Police Act. Thanks to the well-balanced actions of militia personnel, the situation had stabilized by the beginning of the court. The President of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, Dombrovsky Ivan Petrovich, viewed the passage of judges as an unprecedented exercise of pressure on the institutions of constitutional jurisdiction. He therefore requested the Ministry of the Interior to take the necessary measures within its competence to ensure the continued unhindered work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the passage and entry into the administrative building of the judges and staff of the secretariat, and to bring the perpetrators to justice under the law. In addition, we have received statements: Ms. Stanik, judge of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, as well as the national deputy of Tarasov, who stated that the People's Deputy of Ukraine, Gubsky, used physical violence against him. According to the facts, Ukrainian GUMWD has collected materials in the city of Kiev and is sent to the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine for their procedural evaluation. Such attempts to create conflict situations were made by supporters of the social organization Time, near the Secretariat of the President of Ukraine, yesterday. In particular, when a van and supporters of the coalition drove up, they blocked their passage and cut them loose. In order to prevent possible illegal acts, police officers have prevented further exacerbation of the conflict. I would like to point out that, contrary to the assurances and promises made by the leaders of the opposition, their supporters have violently violated article 39 of the Ukrainian Constitution. We are fully controlled, additional measures are envisaged to enhance public order in the capital. Today, the Constitutional Court has begun its work without any excesses. We control the situation in the capital and in the country. Thank you. If there are any questions, I'm ready to answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u19	Thank you, Vasil Petrovich. Any questions? None. Thank you, thank you. Make it up to you, Vasil Petrovich. Please serve as Attorney General Victor Pavlovich Pshonka.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u20	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished national deputies of Ukraine, the authorities of the prosecutor's office under the Constitution of Ukraine, and within the limits of their powers, are taking steps to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens and to ensure that justice is carried out. As you know, on April 17, this year, the court opened a case for the constitutional submission of 53 national deputies. The following day, on April 18, 2007, a group of individuals were deliberately blocked from the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine and from the judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to the premises of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. These unlawful acts lasted for some time, resulting in the push and failure of judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine to go to court and perform their duties. Only after the intervention of members of the police, who acted in accordance with the Ukrainian Police Act, were the judges able to come to their posts and enter into service duties. According to the fact, on 18 April 2007, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine filed a criminal case under article 341 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code: “The seizure of state or public buildings or buildings”. In addition, numerous allegations and reports of pressure against judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine have been examined by the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine. Yes, on April 16, 2007, the Office of the Attorney-General of Ukraine received a statement from the deputy head of the Constitutional Court, Stanik, requesting a legal assessment of the distribution in the media of the false, she believed, of the information about her and her family. Such actions are seen as a deliberately organized campaign aimed at discrediting her as a judge, reporting on the case, and removing her from consideration. The audit found that the information published in the online publications about the illegal acquisition of the Tenets of Property Rights at the residence, as well as the receiving of bribes from the Deputy Minister of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, Lukash, was falsified, i.e. she did not find her confirmation. But a procedural decision has been made to refuse a criminal case. In addition, the examination takes into account other circumstances that indicate that I have set up the capture of the Constitutional Court in order to hinder its normal work and to interfere with the work of the judges of this court in order to prevent them from performing their duties or to obtain an unfair decision. In particular, these are the following actions. First, a public appeal of April 10, 2007, by five judges of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, pointing to pressure on them in preparing the case. Second, a briefing by the Ukrainian Security Service, which took place on April 16, 2007, revealed that there was no reliable information on the alleged illegal receipt of real estate by one of the family members of the Stanik family, including apartments, land plots, cars. A review of the materials collected by the Ukrainian Security Service found that they did not contain any objective data on getting Judge Stanik bribed, or doing other corruption. Therefore, the materials listed are officially, under supervision, required by the Office of the Attorney General of Ukraine. Thus, on the basis of sufficient grounds and grounds, on 18 April 2007, the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office also violated a criminal case, following the signs of a crime envisaged in the first section of article 376 of the Ukrainian Criminal Code: interference with the activities of the judicial authorities. Introducing an investigation into the case is entrusted to investigators in charge of investigating particularly important matters. I assure you that the authorities of the Ukrainian prosecutor's office will continue to respond adequately to similar violations of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u21	Thank you, Victor Pavlovich. Any questions? Sign up. Yes, 10 minutes, please, Jaroslav Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u22	Jaroslav Suhi, Party of Regions. I have a question, because, like all society, I'm worried about the terrible process of transforming the BAF into some new Ukrainian Gestapo or a waste of the ruling regime. Why doesn't the Attorney General respond to an open violation of Ukraine's laws? First, the Information Act, articles 23 and 30, states that collecting information about a person without his prior consent is prohibited and that information about a person is protected by law. And second, there is article 6 of the Ukrainian Act on Operational Search Activities, which states that the reason for carrying out operational search and gathering information is that this person is preparing to commit a crime. Perhaps you, as the Attorney General's Office, need our help to make changes, or to supplement existing legislation, because what is happening today is otherwise, as a legal impossibility by the BSC. It turns out that they have a compromise for each of us, and on the Fas! team of the President's Secretariat, this information will be published here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u23	Thank you for asking. All the circumstances that you have heard in your question will be investigated in the criminal investigation of article 376 of Part One, the intervention of the judicial authorities, including the Security Service, and the press conference conducted by the FSB.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u24	Chechtov's car. Please, Mikhail Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u25	Dear Viktor Pavlovich! We know you as a fine professional and a very decent person working for the State. According to available information, 5,000 well-trained militants arrived in Kiev from western regions of Ukraine, with the clear task of causing civil conflict and thus giving the President the pressure of the “party of war” to issue another non-constitutional decree establishing a state of emergency in the country. What preventive measures is the Public Prosecutor's Office going to take in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u26	Thank you for asking. That's serious information. Believe me, the law enforcement agencies will check it seriously and take appropriate legal measures.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u27	Bubba Stepan.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u28	Thank you. Stephen Bulba is a faction of socialists. In his own time, the minister of internal affairs spoke of the following: “The season” of the jury. Well, I mean, obviously, he meant that it's time to take some more tough action. Don't we understand that these structures are designed, not to provide, say, the rule of law and order and so forth, but to provoke? As you think, we need to find out now who's funding them, who's coordinating these extremist law-enforcement organizations that are. Well, it's obvious and obvious that they have a significant impact and they provoke civil conflict.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u29	Thank you for your attention. Believe me, I am authoritatively stating from this rostrum that law enforcement authorities have all the intelligence of the operational nature and other nature to the activities of all the public formations that you've mentioned in your question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u30	Mikhailo Melniczuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u31	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I have a question for you, I'm here. You had reason to consider the issue of hindering the work of the Supreme Council. A group of individuals, Ukrainian national deputies, led by Mr. Turkinov, took the shield, cut off, for example, the vitality of the Supreme Council, and so on. We've found a way out. The Attorney General's Office for this matter, let's say I don't have any action, for example, I don't have any information. The following question is, for example, the actions of the national deputies and their assistants at the Constitutional Court. There's some sort of consistent, let's say, violation of the Constitution, of the laws of Ukraine. Let's give you a few representations, and we'll draw conclusions in the hall whether it's possible or not. With regard to the members of the Supreme Council and their assistants.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u32	Thank you. After the capture of the shield, you know, there was a vetting of the Attorney General's office. A procedural decision has been made to refuse a criminal offence. And all the other situations of the capture of state buildings and what we're talking about yesterday's Constitutional Court are criminal cases. There are no other obvious facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u33	Gregory Smythew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u34	Garbage Grigory, Party of Regions. Victor Pavlovich, please tell me, as I continue with my previous colleague, I would like to clarify this question so that you can explain. We see that during 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, some forces are constantly pushing Ukraine into territorial and social and other distributions. In their actions, it is clear and clear that crimes are committed against the State and its system. Please tell us why actions are taking place at the sites of the Kiev City Administration when the actions of the “Julia Timoshenko Block”, the Supreme Council, today's Constitutional Court, were in other places. Why they are not clearly and clearly qualified as crimes against the State. Why doesn't the D.A. take any measures to cut these.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u35	I have just informed you, honourable national deputies, that two criminal cases under articles 376 and 341, have been committed by the Attorney-General's Office, are they not adequate, are they not the legal measures that you are asking, under specific circumstances, on specific facts?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u36	Please, Basil Hara.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u37	Dear Viktor Pavlović, in my view, does not respond very quickly to the grave violations of the Constitution and the laws of the State in the current extremely critical situation. Here, let us say, forgive me, please, the situation, article 341 of the Criminal Code speaks of criminal responsibility for the seizure of buildings, buildings, public institutions. Because in 2004, you and I know that this article was dead. Whether the Public Prosecutor's Office today is prepared to respond and guarantee the rule of law, the rule of law in the event of attempts to block the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council and so on. And secondly, what is the reaction of the Attorney General's Office on individuals to yesterday's events in the Constitutional Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u38	Thank you. In 2004, this article was not dead. At that time, criminal proceedings were initiated to block public institutions, and the Attorney-General and Minister-General of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of 2005 should be asked what happened to these criminal cases? That's a first. And secondly, what you have said is that the seizure of buildings or facilities that ensure the functioning of public authorities or the obstruction of their normal activities is a criminal responsibility. This is a serious offence, and the Office of the Attorney-General gives a very serious assessment in conjunction with other law enforcement agencies. I understand that, firstly, these acts are directed against the authority of the public authorities, secondly, the crime is characterized by a direct intention because the organizers and the perpetrators understand and understand the public, dangerous nature of their actions and, thirdly, the motive of this crime is the desire to express disobedience, gently speaking, of public authority. Therefore, the response of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u39	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u40	The D.A.'s office. The criminal cases are not investigated in one day, and let us report the prospect to the distinguished, you people's deputies from this rostrum after a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u41	The prospect will be determined by the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u42	A legal assessment will be made by the court.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u43	Yes. Thank you, Victor Pavlovich. Have a seat, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u44	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u45	Dear colleagues, I think we will take the information to know, thank both the Minister of Internal Affairs, and you are acting as the Attorney-General's attorney for having responded to our invitation and have informed us clearly and clearly what actions have been taken by the law enforcement authorities and the prosecutor's office to bring order to the state, thanking those who have carried out this duty, because those of you who have seen the footage of the events that have taken place around the Constitutional Court and around the President's Secretariat have seen that the situation is difficult and its deliberately some political forces are intensifying to take other measures, as you have rightly said here, anti-constitutional, anti-constitutional measures. And let us wish health and the minister that he would be in line and, of course, wish the recovery of Alexander Ivanovich Medvedzko, who, as you know, is in the hospital to correct his health and, both the ministry and the Attorney General's Office conscientiously, coming out of the Constitution, the laws, protect the rule of law in the state, because, at last, you have to put a stop to everything that is allowed by the people's deputies, first of all, the law must be for all of them. And I think if the Attorney General finds it necessary to send the materials to a lawbreaker, which is the case with the National Deputies, the Supreme Council will review these submissions promptly and make the appropriate decisions. Thank you. A draft Order on Amendments to the Ukrainian Supreme Council Order of 2 November 2006 "On the Establishment of a Temporary Investigation Commission of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Verification of Corruption Cases, Abuse of Service by Individual Officials of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, as set out in the article "Another Militia" of the newspaper "2000" of September 08, 2006" is under consideration. Registration number 3412. National Deputy of Ukraine Sovkovic Vladimir Leonidovich. I just saw it. Well, your honor, the point of the proposal is, I remind you. On November 2nd, you and I adopted a decree establishing a temporary commission of inquiry for the Supreme Council on the verification of the facts that have been presented in a number of publications in the newspaper “2000”. Those with you who read this newspaper know that to this day it is practical. There's Sivkovich. Please don't let me take your bread, Vladimir Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u46	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! I wrote a supplement to the decision that was adopted in November 2006, in view of the fact that only yesterday was the completion of the CPR Committee on the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Several criminal cases have been instituted, and most of the materials are still at work today. After negotiations with the Attorney General's Office, the head of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The time it takes to complete the whole test is at least 3-4 months. That is why I wrote and asked you to support this draft decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u47	Thank you. Will there be questions? Melniczuk, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u48	Melniczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Cherniewec region. Dear Adam Ivanovich! I'm talking to you. I wanted to ask you a question, not Sovkovich, but let's say that you explain the situation to me. On what grounds does the acting head of the Security Service not appear in the Supreme Council? In general, he has ignored the invitation to the Supreme Council twice. And I don't think the Supreme Council is in a position to invite this person to report on what the Ukrainian Security Service is doing today. And with regard to Sivkovic's proposal, I support you to continue, let's say, the deadline for the commission of inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u49	Thank you. Have a seat, Vladimir Leonidovich. Dear colleagues, there is a proposal to make a decision and to make changes. The point of these changes is to continue the work of this commission. We initially set her up, if I'm not mistaken, for two or three months now it's clear from the information that during this time the Interim Investigation Commission couldn't fully verify what was going on there. So I'd like to support the order number 3412. Please vote in general. [[11:15:26]] For 244 Here, dear fellows, all you have to do is make sense. I'll tell the stenographer, because here, I'm going to define the term of the commission's activity from the day of this decision. It means not the decree given today, but the decree to which we make changes. We made a decision in November In 2006, that is the term of operation of this interim commission of inquiry, we continue until November 1st, 2007. This is for the transcript so that there is no ambiguity, not since the adoption of today’s decree, but since the adoption of the decree of November 2. And here we still have the draft decree number 3214, but since you and I have made a decision to extend the term of office of this interim commission of inquiry, the need to consider regulation 3214 has fallen, since it was related to the commission’s termination. Let us turn to the question of “Other readings”. A draft Act amending article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on Sudokustia, Bill No. 2552, is under consideration. Pritika Dmitro Mikitovic is the deputy head of the Justice Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u50	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, I would like to remind you that in due course the government has passed this bill, the main purpose of which is the legislative determination of the level of State social guarantees when calculating the remuneration of the national jury and the jury at the time when they perform their duties in court. And the second is the introduction of this bill, the introduction of article 72 of the Law on the Sudokure with the Law on the State Budget. The Committee on Justice at its meeting on 14 March 2007 was working on a second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice. During the preparation of the draft Ukrainian Law amending article 72 of the Ukrainian Law on the judiciary, proposals were received from the Ukrainian national deputies of Seminoga and Kluków. Three proposals came from the National MP Seminog, all rejected. Why? I'm Motivating. The Seminoga proposes to change the title of the bill and to make it available in such a way as to amend article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on the Sudokus of Ukraine and to supplement article 59 of the Ukrainian Law on Sudoustavium with the following content: “The judge’s salary may not be less than the subsistence minimum for a working person.” Having considered the proposals, the Committee decided that the proposals proposed had a different subject of legal regulation and therefore could not be considered in the context of the bill, more so than without proper economic justification. [[Amendments Nos. 1 and Nos. 2]] That is, the national deputy goes beyond the scope of the Supreme Council’s consideration of article 72, not 59. That's the first one. And the rejected proposals of the national deputy Klukkowski, who proposes the words “a minimum of living for a working person”, are replaced by the words “90 per cent of the pay for the appropriate time of work of the judge who presided over the case”. It is practical to do this because article 44 of the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges stipulates that the salary of the judge consists of salary, bonuses, allowances for the qualification classes of benefits for years and other allowances. So it's very difficult to measure this size. Thus, the government in due course offered that we pay the prize to the national jury and to the jury no less in the size of the subsistence minimum. I am. This bill is supported not only by the committee, but by the Ministry of Justice, that is. and the Cabinet of Ministers, and the State Court Administration.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u51	Thank you. Dear colleagues, therefore, Dmitry Mikitovitch has absolutely reasoned on all the amendments that have been made and why they have not been taken into account. It is absolutely logical that they have a purpose other than the one that we are discussing with you today in our second reading. No one insists on voting for amendments or things that are included, although nothing is included here, but only amendments are rejected. Oh, no? Then I am voting on the adoption in the second reading and in general as a law of the Law amending article 72 of the Law on the Sudokustura. Registration number 2552. Please vote. [[11:21:13]] For 244 The law is passed. And, dear colleagues, I'm addressing those who put their visas on the bill: please don't use or allow the use of facsimile, it's unacceptable. We need to put in live signatures. Actually, facsimile shouldn't be kept. A draft Law on Reparation is under consideration for the State of Material Damage to Criminally Injured Citizens. Registration number 0907. Second reading. Member of the Committee for the Legislative Protection of the Law, Gritzak Vasil Mikolayovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u52	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, present! The Supreme Council of the Fourth Call of January 18, 2006, was adopted in its first reading on the basis of Supreme Council Order 3363-4. Submitted by the National Deputies of Sirenko, Onopenko and Onichuk, draft Law on Reparation from the State for Material Damage to Citizens Affected by Crime, registration number 0907. On July 22, 2006, the Supreme Council of Ukraine transferred the project to the Committee on Legislative Protection to prepare it for second reading. In the process of processing a number of observations and suggestions that came to the committee from the legal entities of the legislative initiative: the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the scientific institutions and the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, members of the committee concluded that the provisions of the bill did not comply with international law, did not take account of the state’s economic situation, nor did they correspond to the current legislation of Ukraine. In particular, the mechanisms to compensate victims of violent crime at the expense of the State should correspond to the ideologies of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crime in 1983, signed by Ukraine on April 8, 2005, and to ensure that such victims are provided with real and prompt assistance. While the members of the committee agree on the need to establish a new law - enforcement mechanism capable of providing timely redress for the victim’s crime. However, it is believed that Ukraine's draft laws on the ratification of the European Convention on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes and on the Compensation of Victims of Violent Crimes, designed by the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine to comply with Presidential Decree No. 39 of 20 January 2006. Currently, the bill is agreed in interested ministries and departments for further registration with the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In view of the above, the Committee decided to propose to the Supreme Council of Ukraine that the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the adoption of the draft Ukrainian law on compensation for material harm to citizens who have suffered crime should be repealed. Please support the specified draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u53	Thank you. Do you understand the position of the committee? I am voting on the proposal to annul the decision of the Supreme Council of 18 January on the adoption on the basis of the draft Ukrainian law on compensation by the State for material damage to citizens who have suffered crime, and to withdraw the bill from consideration. Please vote. [[11:25:12]] For 239. Decision taken. We'd have to look at the bill number 2288. The draft law on amendments to certain Ukrainian legislative acts on the prevention of unauthorized phone-telephone-telephone-telephone-telephone-telephone-telephone-telephone-telephone-television. But since we have a bill 2702, which is broader than this bill, and we have a proposal: now not to consider Bill 2288, but to give a protocol commission to a committee of profile to prepare a bill 2702, which looks much deeper into and solves the problem that we could solve in this bill. The authors of both bills are Sergei Mikolaiovich Husarov, and he agrees. So I suggest we do this. Is there no objection? Then we give a protocol commission to the committee to prepare 2702, where proposals will be taken into account, since there are 2,288. We're looking at the draft Amnesty Act, registration number 2377-state, second reading. Reports the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement activities, Sergey Mikolayovich Husarov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u54	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Your view is on the draft amnesty law, which was adopted on March 13, 2007, in the first reading and prepared for consideration in the second reading by the Committee on Law Enforcement. The project is made up of 17 articles. It is intended to announce amnesty for the most vulnerable socially vulnerable categories of convicts — minors, pregnant women, elderly persons, war veterans, disabled persons, and so on. The basic criteria for applying amnesty are the slight social danger of action, severe illness, old age, and other objective factors that significantly reduce the danger of those who are offered to be released from punishment, a significant period of time spent in the moment of amnesty. Compared with previous amnesty laws, novelties are required to establish the guilt of a crime in the court’s decision to amnesty against a person whose criminal case or criminal material is in the conduct of the authorities of inquiry and judicial investigation. Unable to release persons who will be subjected to amnesty from additional forms of punishment. As a result of amnesty from places of deprivation and restriction of will, six thousand persons are expected to be released, and five thousand convicts have reduced their sentences. Dear colleagues, I would like to remind you that there has been no amnesty in the state for almost two years. Therefore, the adoption of the bill has an urgent need. Many look forward to an act of mercy and forgiveness on the part of the State. Some 34 comments were made in the text of the bill from the legislators. 21 comments are taken into account by the committee. 13 comments rejected. The committee's negative conclusions are based on the table of amendments given to you. On April 4, 2007, the meeting committee reviewed the draft Amnesty Act of Ukraine and considered it possible to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of the bill on second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. The main legal authority concluded without notice and by a similar recommendation. Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u55	Thank you, Sergey Mikolayovich. Yes, honourable colleagues, who among the national deputies whose amendments have been rejected insists on their vote? Borszewski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u56	26th Amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u57	26th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u58	Borschevsky, Communist Party of Ukraine. Article 7, which states that amnesty is not applied to persons, but to “a”, who are convicted of committing a serious or particularly serious willful crime that has occurred less than half of the term of primary punishment. This was accepted in the first reading. I propose that those who have committed serious, particularly serious crimes may not be subject to this amnesty. We're not going to get caught by our constituents. Therefore, I suggest that the words “which took less than half of the term of basic punishment” be deleted. That is, amnesty will not apply to persons who have committed serious and deliberate serious and particularly serious crimes. Please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u59	Please have the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u60	The idea of the committee was to reject the amendment. I think let's define by voting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u61	Yes, I'm voting on the amendment of the people's MP Borschewski at number 26. Please vote in favour. Vote. [[11:30:59]] For 243 Correction counted. Yes, who else insists? None. Then I'm voting on the adoption of the bill number 2377-D, the amnesty law, in general, as a law that takes into account the amendment that we voted on. Please vote. [[11:31:36]] For 244 Copy that. Although, dear colleagues, I do not rule out that such a law is necessary, we do have the law “On the Application of Amnesty in Ukraine”, which will be “About Amnesty”. It's probably better to write everything in the same law, not to create a few laws on the same subject, and then just a confusion in their application. It was worth it, perhaps if there was such a law, to make the changes that had to be made in the law that already existed. Well, we have what we have. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences is under consideration. [[on liability for plant quarantine offences]] Registration number 3054. Reports a member of the Committee on Legislative Protection of Malisev Vladimir Stepanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u62	Thank you. Honourable Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, in preparation for the second reading of the draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, No. 3054, adopted on the first reading of March 20, this year, the committee considered the proposals of our colleagues, deputies Croat and Sinchenk. All of these proposals were based on the introduction of the provisions of the Code of Administration in accordance with the standards of the Professional Sectoral Law of Ukraine on Plant Quarantine, as well as other legal and regulatory provisions governing matters in the field, such as the order of the Ministry of the Interior of 29 November of that year number 716. Yes, Article 105 of the Code proposes that the words “the spread of quarantined organisms” should be excluded by establishing “the responsibility of legal and natural persons for violating the requirements for carrying out phytosanitary measures”, i.e. laws and other legal and regulatory acts which are mandatory for enforcement. Article 106 of the draft law proposes to be edited to prohibit imports into Ukraine of transit through its territory, exports from Ukraine, and removals from quarantine zones, or exports of plant health control objects that do not comply with the requirements of articles 29, 35 and 37, 46 of the Ukrainian Plant Quarantine Act. In general, six proposals have been submitted to the bill, all of them included, except for proposals to change to the names of the laws, because raising responsibility is not its main purpose. In our view, the wording of the name adopted in the first reading adequately reflects the essence of the bill. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u63	Thank you, Vladimir Stepanovich. Dear colleagues, all adjustments are taken into account, one of which is rejected, as Vladimir Stepanovich said. No one insists on voting on those or other amendments that have been taken into account or that have not been taken into account? No, it's not. Thank you. I am voting on the second reading as a whole as a law amending the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 3054. [[on liability for plant quarantine offences]] Please vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u64	Yeah. [[11:35:28]] For 244
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u65	The law is passed. The Law on Amendments to the Code of Administrative Offences, registration number 2798, is under consideration. [[on the violation of legislation on State registration of legal acts]] Vladimir Stepanovich Malishev of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u66	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Your view is proposed by the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences, adopted on 14 March this year on the first reading and prepared by the Committee on Legislative Security, Law Protection for Second Reading. [[Registration number 2798]] I would like to remind you that this bill proposes to establish administrative responsibility for violating Ukrainian legislation on the state registration of legal acts. In preparing the draft law for the second reading of the text, there were four comments that the committee had taken fully into account and at its meeting on April 4, this year decided to invite the Supreme Council to adopt the bill in second reading and in general as the law of Ukraine. Following the drafting of the law at the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Supreme Court of Law, on April 12, this year, he received three significant comments on the composition and subject of the administrative offence and on the taking up of the law. The Committee held a re-session on 12 April this year, where it reviewed the observations made by the Chief Legal Authority and decided to take them fully into account and to point out in the “Final Positions” that the law takes effect at the same time as the entry into force of the Ukrainian Law on Regulatory Acts, which is currently at the stage of development in the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine. Thus, the committee took into account all the comments that came to the draft law and suggested that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept it in second reading and in general as a law of Ukraine. In addition, due to the adoption of Ukrainian law, it is necessary to amend draft laws 2798, namely: in the text of the bill, the figure 188.25 should be replaced by the digits 188.26 and the figures 188.26 replaced by the digits 188.27. [[Number 354]] Please be supportive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u67	Dear colleagues, are there those who insist on voting on any amendments? You don't? Then, taking into account the proposals made by Malishev Committee Vladimir Stepanovich, I am voting on the second reading and, as a whole, on the number 2798 amendment to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences. Please vote. Take down the vote. Melnik's microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u68	Thank you. Peter Melnik, Party of Regions. Paragraph four of this state order. Registration is subject to legal and regulatory acts of any kind: regulations, orders, instructions, etc. If they have one or more norms that affect, inter alia, the socio-economic, political, personal and other rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of citizens, proclaimed and guaranteed by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. In accordance with article 4, paragraph 4.2, of the Ukrainian Act on the Treatment of Obligations of Taxpayers to Budgets and State Objective Funds, paragraph 4.2, the tax disclosure is an official understanding of the individual provisions of tax legislation, which is controlled by the body within their competence. Tax clarification does not have the force of a legal act. So the letters, and the more telegraphs, they don't have the power of a legal act and they don't have to register. Taking into account what's been said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u69	Wait, please. The thing is, you have to talk a little bit about something else. There are no amendments, once. If you insist that one of the authors has made an amendment and you are opposed to such an amendment, call it. And now we have to make some adjustments from the voice, sorry, we can't, we had to do it within the prescribed time limit. I am voting on the adoption as a whole, as a law, of the 2798 Act, amending the Code of Administrative Offences. Please vote. [[11:41:03]] For 245 Thank you. The law is passed. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions is being considered," registration number 2597, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, reports Chechtov Mikhalo Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u70	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, Honourable People's Deputies, the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Their Restrictions was submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and adopted by the Supreme Council on the first reading of March 21st this year. The bill provides for a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and Restrictions, as well as appropriate amendments to Ukraine's Civil and Land Codes and Ukrainian Laws on Local Self-Government and Land Renting, in line with the new law. The draft law proposes that the functions of maintaining the State registration of immovable property rights and their limitations and the State Land cadastre should be limited, and that the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine should be designated by the central authority of the executive branch in the area of the State registration of immovable property rights and their burdens. The second read included 75 amendments and proposals from eight national deputies and from members of the Committee on Finance and Banking. The absolute majority of the amendments are taken into account completely or editorially and are considered essentially. The Committee on Economic Policy recommends to the Supreme Council of Ukraine the adoption of a draft Ukrainian Law amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions, in a second reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u71	Thank you, Mikhail Vasilovich. How did the committee feel about the serious comments made by the Chief Legal Authority? It suggests that a bill be submitted for rereading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u72	The Committee is not Frg_01161*001*043&lt;11:43: 13&gt; agrees with the comments made by the Chief Legal Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. We also disagree with the comments made regarding the violation of the draft laws of the Constitution. The Constitution establishes that the State guarantees and guarantees the protection of the rights of all property subjects. For the sake of the proper exercise of the rights guaranteed by the State, a mechanism for the registration of rights is in place, allowing the State to successfully implement the mechanisms for the protection of guaranteed rights. With regard to the creation of the institution, the chosen model for the creation of registration bodies is the most successful since it allows without involving budgetary resources to create a system of registration bodies. The costs derived from the registration will be directed exclusively to the development of this system and to the guarantee fund and to the repayment of credit. This is a loan agreement, a project for issuing state-owned land rights in rural areas and the development of a cadastre system between Ukraine and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, ratified by Ukrainian law on 15 June 2004. We should stress that the bill is a positive one. The proposed changes to the current law are logical and positive, since the function of the state registration of real estate rights and their burdens is legal. And this is also shared by the country’s leading scientists, which is highlighted in the commentary to the draft law prepared by the Yaroslava Wisego Law Institute. Moreover, given that the system of state registration of real estate rights and their burdens are not yet in place. That this project will contribute as soon as possible to its creation, which in turn will improve the protection of the rights of natural and legal persons to immovable property, will help improve the functioning of the real estate market, increase investment in Ukraine. Therefore, we ask once again for support to the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy in adopting this bill in second reading and in general. The Ministry of Justice also fully agrees with the committee’s point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u73	Thank you. Dear colleagues, which of you have been amended, but are not included or who has your comments included, please report. There's no such thing. Then I am voting on the second reading and, in general, as a law, Bill No. 2597 - amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Real Estate Rights and their Restrictions. Please vote. [[11:46:03]] For 251 The law is passed. A draft Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act, registration number 2602, is under consideration. [[about a unified overhead]] Reported to the head of the Transport and Liaison Committee, Mironenko Mikhailo Ivanovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u74	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! For your consideration, a draft Ukrainian Law amending article 6 of the Ukrainian Law on Transit of Goods, article 2602 of 28.11.2006, which is designed for the purpose of implementing a unified consignment note in Ukraine. The consignment note was designed to remove the need to transform the transport documents into cross-border railway transmission stations, to significantly reduce cargo time and to increase transit transport within the framework of the Railway Cooperation Committee and the International Committee on Rail Transport. The unified consignment note CIM\UMWS combines the CIM consignment note graphs with the UMCS and contains all the data required for the customs declaration of cargo. A unified consignment note can be used as a cargo customs declaration to implement simplified customs clearance. The application of the consignment note will ensure that delivery times are reduced and that shipping costs are reduced by avoiding the transformation of the transfer documents at the border and the application of the consignment note as a customs document, giving legal guarantees to customers. The drafting of the draft for second reading takes into account the comments made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Directorate on the application of the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, which has saved the first sentence of article 6 without altering the first sentence of article 6 and the consideration of the proposal made by the national deputy of Eden to write the name of the consignment note in Ukrainian, Russian and Latin letters. Please support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u75	Thank you, Mikhail Ivanovich. No one has any objections? None. I would like to vote on the adoption of the Act on Amendments to Article 6 of the Ukrainian Goods Transit Act, Registration No. 2602. Please vote. [[11:48:55]] For the 250. The law is passed. A draft Law on the Principles for the Elimination of Lands of Private Property is under consideration. Registration number 2141. Head of the Committee on Agricultural Policy and Land Relations, Bevanenko Valerij Fedorovich. Please, the law is extremely important.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u76	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, your attention is given to a bill that we are considering today in our second reading and adoption of which meets the requirements of the Constitution of Ukraine and is provided for in the final positions of the Ukrainian Code of Land. During the period since the plenary session on 29 March of the second reading of the bill, consultations were held with experts and national deputies on the draft bill on the results proposed, firstly, the title of the bill to be issued in the following edition: "to buy land for private property for social purposes and for reasons of social necessity". Second, article 13, article 13: “The solution of disputes over the redemption of land for the social needs of the judiciary. In the event of a redemption of a land area with residential buildings, buildings and buildings, or plantations, if there is a owner or owner of a house, a building or a building or a plantation that does not agree with the decision to ransom for social purposes, or the parties have not reached a redemption price agreement or other conditions for the redemption of the land within the time limit established by this law, the executive authority of the local government shall apply to the court for a redemption of the land. In the event of a redemption of a land free from encroachment for a particular social need, the decision of the executive or local government regarding the ransom price may be challenged by its owner in court. If, within 60 days of the end of the time limit set by this law to resolve the issue of the redemption of land, the executive or local self-government authorities have applied to the court for the purpose of protecting social interests and their legal rights, the decision on the redemption of the land area is null and void. Taking into account these suggestions and editorial rights, please accept the bill in the second reading and generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u77	Thank you. What are the comments, suggestions for amendments? You don't? Then come on, first, I'm putting to the vote a motion to change the title of the law as the reporter suggested. Please vote. [[11:52:03]] For 249 So I'm voting on the adoption of the whole number 2141 law in the form of the name that we voted on and with that article 13 that was proposed by the reporter. Please vote. [[11:52:35.]] For 252 Thank you, the law has been passed. We've done a pretty serious job with you. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the licensing of certain types of agricultural activity, registration number 2556, second reading, is under consideration. Sergei Anatoliyovich Matvienkov is the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u78	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! A comparative table of the draft law amending the law on licensing of certain economic activities is introduced for your consideration of the second reading.” The purpose of the bill is to agree on the provisions of the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain economic activities and the Road Transport Act. Eight amendments and proposals were introduced to the bill, seven of which were taken into account by members of the Committee. The fourth amendment tabled by the People's MP, Mr. Paseknik Sergey Nikolaevich, was rejected. This decision was taken by the Committee in view of the fact that article 11 of the Law on the licensing of certain economic activities provides for the licensing authority to decide whether to grant or refuse licences within 10 working days of the date of application, unless the special law provides for a different period for the issue of licences. Article 9 of the Road Transport Act provides that the decision of the licensing authority to issue or refuse to grant licences for the conduct of business activities for the carriage of passengers and goods shall be taken within 30 days of the date of application, which provides for the verification of the licensing conditions with regard to the departure and organization of the work of the applicants. There is therefore no need to amend the bill before us. In view of the above, the Committee decided to amend the Act on the licensing of certain business activities into the Hall and to recommend that it be adopted on second reading and in general as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u79	Thank you, Sergey Anatolyovich. You don't? Corrections are all taken into account. No, one turned away, Pachesuka. He doesn't insist, does he? I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Act on the licensing of certain types of economic activity. Registration number of bill 2556. Please vote. [[11:55:05]] For the 250. Thank you. The law is passed. A draft Act on the organisation and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Football Championship in Ukraine is under consideration. Registration number 3176. Reported the deputy head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, Safiullin Rawl Safovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u80	Respected Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, respected bodies and radio listeners, residents of Ukraine. First of all, I would like to congratulate all of you on the right which was won yesterday by our country to hold the 2012 championship of our country. I would like to congratulate you from the bottom of my heart. This is the great conquest of all our people. For our State, this is an event that we will probably only be able to understand fully the importance of in time. And since this chance has been lucky enough to get us out, we have to make the most of it. With regard to the bill itself under consideration, since the first hearing on the bill, there have been a total of 11 amendments from members of the people. They have all been taken into account and, to date, in principle, the Committee proposes a final version of the draft bill, which takes into account all the rules of both Ukrainian and foreign law, as well as the international experience of such competitions. I would like to express my gratitude to the specialists of the Supreme Council's Chief Legal Office for their timely and qualified assistance in the work on this bill. On the basis of the foregoing, the Committee of the Supreme Council recommends the adoption of the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u81	Thank you. Dear colleagues, let's vote, but let's make one demand. If our congregation doesn't become the champion of Europe, we're going to abolish this law and we're going to put all the costs on those who prepare them for the championship. [[Laughter]] Because there's a lot of serious benefits that the state gives in order for at a high level, well, some media outlets already call the sum that at least 20 billion will have to be invested over five years to do that. I'm looking at the representatives of Lviv, build the stadium faster so everything's going to be all right. Yes, I put it to a vote and ask everyone to support Bill 3176 on the organization and holding of the final part of the 2012 European Championship from football in Ukraine. Please vote. [[11:58:20]] For 256 Today it's a record number of votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u82	The factions, please. Region Party – 184, Block Timoshenko – 12, “Our Ukraine” – 4, Socialists – 29, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 6. Dear colleagues, let us then address the organizers of the championship so that those who voted in favour of the law today will have the right and be invited to its final part, and those who did not vote and did not let them go. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Advertising Act, registration number 1044, is under consideration. [[on the promotion of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages]] [[second reading]] Reports Bondarenko Olena Anatoliyevna, the first deputy head of the Committee on Freedom of Speech and Information. Helen Anatolyevna, please wait. This is a bill that you and I have already approached several times before, and the chairman of the committee, Andrew Shevchenko, has written us a letter so that we don't listen to it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u83	It's a good number, April 18th. April 18, yesterday's date letter. He's asking us not to look, because he's saying there's an alternative bill from the Cabinet of Ministers 2829. Well, it's a little bit out of date here, because it can't be an alternative to the bill before it's considered in the first reading. That's why I informed you, but we'll act in accordance with the Rules. It's not an alternative, let the committee prepare the bill for consideration in the first and second readings, and now we're looking at the second reading of Bill 1044. Please, Olena Anatolyevna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u84	Dear Adam Ivanovich, I would like to add that before writing such letters on behalf of the Committee, it must be borne in mind that Andrei Shevchenko did not hold committees for three weeks, and on behalf of the Committee he had no legal basis to issue such passports in the form of letters. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Bill 1044 is our committee's many-suffering child. I and my committee colleague, Nikolai Bagraev, have passed the bill on most of my strength. It implies strict restrictions on the advertising of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages, both on advertising and on television, on radio, on printed publications and on various mass events. What I'm saying is that the bill that you have on your hands right now is the perfect form, it's the perfect balance between a really strict limitation and the financial independence of the media. We know that about 90 per cent of all sports programs and about 70 per cent of all entertainment programs on our television channels depend on alcohol sponsorship. As the former Chairman of the advertising subcommittee, I would like to ask you to support this bill on second reading, since all the amendments, which were over 80, were attended by almost all the factions in the discussion of the bill, have been taken into account. I can say that by 2009, we will have no tobacco and alcohol commercials on the outside. There is also a significant limitation on the form of alcohol sponsorship on television, and all advertising from the print media is removed by 2010 and so on. I would like to say that the bill that we were considering yesterday from Kabmin deals exclusively with the terminology part. Indeed, Bill 1044 also contains many terms that are introduced for the first time. And there's a kind of disagreement here, there's the rules that were contained in the past, yesterday's bill, and there are the rules that are contained in our current bill. But in principle, to the third reading, we could combine two bills, no dissonance and imbalance between them. Therefore, I would like to reiterate my second reading of the bill. Thank you. If there are any questions, I can answer them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u85	I have a question. So, you're suggesting that he vote only in the second and move to the third?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u86	Yes, of course, because there will be a danger that we can. We adopted the draft bill proposed by Kabmin yesterday, which contains the terms contained in this bill 1044, 1044/1. It is therefore best to prepare a consolidated version for third reading. And I think that the committee will take on a job, especially since I really want to stress once again that the bill is plentiful. How many copies have been broken down, how many mutual accusations have been made, and it has been very difficult to get a general and public opinion on the restriction of advertising for tobacco products and alcoholic beverages, and at the same time to leave some basis for the financial independence of the media.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u87	Olena Anatolyevna, interestingly, you didn't do any research on how many smokers are on the committee, what are you doing fighting, on the one hand, for adoption, and on the other hand, you're doing everything you can to keep this law from being passed?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u88	Why wasn't it adopted? We can take it as a base right now, but, again, we'll be with you later.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u89	We've already accepted it as a basis.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u90	After that, we will not have any problems with you in connection with the bill that we adopted yesterday, despite my recommendations, that was initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u91	I don't want to blame anyone, but tobacco products and alcoholic beverages are driving their way, unfortunately. Who has the authors of the amendments? Only those who had been corrected, or those amendments that were taken into account, and you deny? Please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u92	Dear colleagues, Mrs. Oleno! I've got till I'm 22. And then I'll talk 24 more separately. Twenty-two. It says here: “accounted for editorially”. Seven points with which the committee agreed. Unfortunately, in the previous table we've been given, it's comparable to checking that accounting is editorially impossible for me. You can assure us that all the seven points that are written here, they are, in fact, included in the law, are absolutely fair. And I don't think anyone questioned them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u93	In any case, we took them into account. Perhaps the language has been changed, but everything that is in principle, ideologically and legally, we have all studied. Look at the chart. What's more, we had a joint, joint committee that was invited by all the amendment authors and I think you were there, too.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u94	Yes, Taras made an unacceptable mistake — he trusted the woman. Yes, please, any other adjustments? Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u95	Yeah, and now there's going to be an amendment, which I'm going to insist on very strongly, is Amendment 24. On the committee, in principle, it was agreed that it was logical, it stems from the very essence of the law itself, which provides that all goods not prohibited for sale in Ukraine are entitled to advertising. The other thing is that the state can restrict them. This is the essence of the law. And the second point that the state is introducing a really logical, well-thought-out approach, and 12 months is a term that has to be modified in advance on this issue, is perfectly logical. He insisted on this with a completely strange argument by Boris Bespali of “Our Ukraine” and said that there was no need to support it, no idea why. I very much ask the Supreme Council to support this amendment. It introduces basic normal logic into the law and saves us from some populist unthinking action. And very briefly, the last seconds. In general, it seems to me that this restriction is what we're fighting against. Advertise, do not advertise vodka that was not advertised at all. I don't think they're going to drink any less. Maybe someone's going to start drinking or drinking alone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u96	I fully support Taras for 24 amendments. We had a similar amendment with Nikolai Bagraev. Unfortunately, the committee rejected her, although I am on your side. I therefore propose that the room also take into account the amendment of 24 and 23, which was similar and the author was myself and Bagraev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u97	I'm voting on Amendments 23 and 24. I'd like to make up my mind. [[12:07:30]] For 186 And they did the right thing, because if we were to take these amendments into account, we wouldn't have to adopt the law, because these amendments say that the state guarantees advertising of all things that are not forbidden to produce. Cigarettes and alcohol are not prohibited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u98	Yes, but then stop making alcohol and tobacco.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u99	No, we don't forbid it. We prohibit advertising where it is not necessary, and you suggest that the State guarantees advertising that is not prohibited by production.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u100	That's right. This is a normal principle of law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u101	Yes, a very good principle. Then why should the law be written if the principle is good? Yeah, which one of the authors? Bondarczuk had something up there, but he had something else.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u102	Restricting, yes, but not prohibiting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u103	Yes, Your Honor, I'm voting on a motion for a second reading of Bill No. 1044 amending the Ukrainian Advertising Act. [[Only in Second Reading]] [[on the promotion of tobacco products and alcoholic beverages]] Vote. [[12:08:49]] For 215 Not accepted. I repeat, we did not vote as a whole as a law, while in the second reading and suggestions of the committee I support to send it to third reading. Please vote. In the second reading and the third, taking into account what the correspondent of the Kabmina bill was talking about. [[12:09:25]] For 232 Thank you, copy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u104	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u105	Prepare for the third reading, but not as long as the second reading. The draft Law on Introduction is under consideration. Yeah, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. We're on a break right now, but... But back up my offer to work without interruption, because we have for the first time in the history of the Ukrainian Parliament a meeting of deputies of all calls: 1st to 5th. So we would have to work all the time to. Lunch on schedule! It'll be tonight. It'll turn into dinner for those who want to have dinner. There's no denying that they'll be working all the time? Okay, thanks. A draft Act amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial is under consideration. [[for Blood Donors]] Registration number 2653. Reports from the Committee, Vasil Georgievich Hara. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u106	Dear colleagues, I will briefly remind you of the legislative proposals I have put forward, Ivan Nikolaevich Bondarczuk, Jaroslav Mihajlovich Suhay. Its purpose is to bring the provisions of the General Public Social Insurance Act into line with the law that we have adopted on donor blood and its components. [[on the payment to the blood donor of temporary disability assistance of 100 per cent of the average wage irrespective of the length of work, provided that two maximum doses have been delivered during the year]] Three proposals by the people's deputies were submitted to the second reading. All three proposals have been taken into account. The Committee therefore requests you to adopt it as a second reading bill and generally as a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u107	Yes, honorary colleagues, one, two, three, three. Well, everyone brought either Hara or Stoyan. They could not have been overlooked. That's understandable. I am betting on the adoption vote as a whole as a law under number 2653: amending article 37 of the Ukrainian Act on compulsory public social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses caused by birth and burial. [[for Blood Donors]] Please vote. [[12:12:13]] For 223 Let's see the factions. Look who's working badly. Who's in charge of getting back to voting? [[12:12:59]] For 231, they're back. I am betting on voting for adoption as a whole as a law, a law amending article 37 of the Ukrainian law on compulsory state social insurance in connection with temporary loss of employment and expenses incurred by birth and burial in relation to blood donors. Registration number 2653. Please vote. [[12:13:37]] For 237 The law is passed. Thank you. Let's move on to the section for re-examination with the president's proposals. The Act on Amendments to Article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code, with the President's proposals of April 3, is under consideration. He was to represent the President of the Supreme Council, Zvaric Roman Mikhailovich. I think we can go to the President with a proposal: if he thinks the Supreme Council isn't, why does he have a president in the Supreme Council who doesn't? This may be the expense of government spending. But we think the Supreme Council is, let it work. Yeah? Yes, Zabarski Vladislav Valeriyovich, member of the Justice Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u108	I would like to remind you, Mr. Adam Ivanovich, honourable colleagues, that this bill "On making changes to parts of the first and second articles of article 112 of the Ukrainian Code of Criminal Procedure" aims to remove cases of certain crimes against life, health, will, honour, dignity and sexual integrity of a person and to refer them to the investigation of internal affairs. The president proposed that the third chapter of the second final and transitional provisions of the law should be completed in order to avoid the possibility of hiring a search job if the case was violated by fact, the person who had committed the crime was undetermined. And in order not to keep the matter open, criminals could not escape responsibility. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Justice at its meeting on April 18, 2007, reviewed the proposals made by the President of Ukraine and suggested recommending that the Supreme Council of Ukraine support the proposals. I'd like your support, colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u109	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you have thus come to understand that the committee is proposing to support the President's proposal. I think she's absolutely hearing this proposal, and it's a good thing that the President paid attention to the fact that we didn't count. And I ask you to support the Law on Amendments to Article 112 of the Ukrainian Criminal Procedure Code with the President's proposals. 2216 Bill by Number. Please vote. [[12:16:54]] For 230 The law is passed, thank you. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, Criminal and Procedural Codes on Liability for Violations of Radiation Security, with proposals by the President dated 02.04. 2006, registration number 3100. Mr. Grezak Vasil Mikolaiovich is a member of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Who from the committee is ready? Yes, Gusarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u110	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! Today we are considering the President's proposals for the Law on Responsibility for Violations of the Radiation Security Rules, which was initiated by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The basic features of the law are the following. First, we have increased administrative responsibility for actions that are expressed in entering the zone, voluntarily settling in it, or destroying the damage or transmission of radiation pollution or fences in the area. Even at the time of the committee’s consideration of the bill, there was a dispute over the establishment of the confiscation of tools and means of commissioning the offence. And it was the removal of the confiscation of funds, the commission of the offence, that the President proposed to Parliament. The committee agreed. The President's proposal on how to reduce the fine according to the general provisions of the Criminal Code was also approved. In addition, the President was invited to separate certain administrative offences and crimes, provided for in article 267 with the “1” of the Criminal Code. This was deemed correct and achieved by adding an addition to article 42 with the “2” adminincodex badge. So all of the proposals made by the President of Ukraine, the committee proposes to take the law into account and vote with the proposals of the President of Ukraine. Please support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u111	Thank you. Dear colleagues, of course. The committee supports the President's wise suggestions. Let's do that, too. I am voting on the adoption of the Amendment Act to the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences, Criminal and Procedural Codes of Ukraine on Responsibility for Violations of Radiation Security Rules, taking into account the President's proposals. Bill registration number 3100. Please vote. [[12:19:54]] For 239. The law is passed. Let us go to the section “Questions of Ratifications”. The draft Law on Ratification of the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States amending the Rules on the Definition of the Country of Origin of Goods, approved by the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States of 30 November 2000. Registration number 0062. Reported the head of the State Customs Service, Yegorov Aleksandar Borisovich. Substitute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u112	Alexander Borisovich is on his way. First Deputy Cherkassky Ruslan Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u113	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u114	Honourable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national MPs, a draft of the Ukrainian Law developed by the Ukrainian State Service for the execution of a decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine 135. The rules for determining the country of origin of goods are an integral part of the agreement on the creation of a zone of free trade in SND countries and ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on September 20, 2001. During this period, the decisions of the Heads of Government of SND and the Economic Council of SND made a number of changes and additions to the rules of origin, which include technical issues relating to the completion of the ST1 certificate of origin, which appears to be issued by the authorities of the exporting country. One such decision is the decision of the SND Heads of Government on 25 May 2006 to amend the rules for filling in count 9 “the criteria of origin of the certificate of origin”. Filling in graph 9 of the certificate according to the decision is done as follows. The letter “P” is inserted in the case where the product is wholly manufactured in the SND State, the letter “D”, if the product is subjected to sufficient treatment and the letter “K”, if the product corresponds to the origin of the SND on the basis of the cumulative principle of the origin of the product. The defined criteria are shown in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the rules of origin. The implementation of the said decision will allow for the harmonization of the national legislation of the member states of the Commonwealth of Independent States, strengthen control over the correct determination of the origins of goods moving under free trade conditions. The report is complete. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u115	Thank you, Ruslan Anatolyovich. Any questions? I have if you can give me an answer, though, if you can. And why has it been signed since 2000, and we're going to ratify it in seven years?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u116	Well, not all the countries joined at once, so it went on for so long. Today, some countries have already joined this covenant and Ukraine, following internal State procedures, and I hope that we will join this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u117	Okay. Thank you. No more questions? Have a seat, please. Zablotsky Vitaly, deputy head of the Science and Education Committee, reports. None. Who's from the committee? The committee's opinion, I'm telling you, is to support the draft Law on Ratification of Decisions. That's the same conclusion of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. I am voting on the adoption of the Act on the Ratification of the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States amending the Rules of Origin of Goods approved by the Decision of the Council of Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Independent States of 30 November 2000, registration number 0062. Please vote. [[12:23:45]] For 239. Decision taken. The draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investments, registration No. 0065, is under consideration. Reported Deputy Minister of Economy Sluzarenko Oksana Alexandrovna. Please. Get ready for Platoon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! The proposed bill ratified the agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, signed on September 18, 2006 in Singapore. The main purpose of the bill is to create conditions for further development of a contractual legal base in the area of bilateral investment cooperation. The agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the promotion and mutual protection of investments, first of all, strengthens the provision by each contractual party in its territory of investments, as well as the incomes of investors of another contractual party to a regime that is fair and equal, and is no less fair than that which gives investment or income to investors of any third State. It's different. Guarantees against illegal expropriation and nationalization of investments are being secured. Third. There is a free transfer of payments to internationally recognized dispute settlement procedures between the investors of the contracting parties and the contracting parties. Each of the contracting parties provides full protection, security, and fair treatment for investors of the other contracting party in its territory. In addition, the agreement will provide legal mechanisms at the international level to ensure investment co-operation. The adoption of the law will ensure the validity and direct implementation of bilateral agreements between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the promotion and mutual protection of investment. The implementation of the provisions of the said agreement will contribute to the development of international investment co-operation, such as the involvement of foreign capital and technology, the activation of external trade, the reduction of non-commercial risks arising from investment activities and the establishment on the international scene of positive thinking about Ukraine as a state that has a stable international contractual basis for the protection of foreign investment. Thank you for your attention and please support the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u119	Thank you. Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. From the committee's deputy head of the Economic Policy Committee, Alexy Vitaliyovich Plonikov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u120	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council discussed the draft Ukrainian Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment. This is from March 1, 2007. The bill provides for the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the appropriate promotion and mutual protection of investments, signed on 18 September 2006 in Singapore. The agreement foresees that each contractual party in its territory encourages and creates favourable conditions for investment activities, in line with Singapore in Ukraine and Ukraine in Singapore. This Agreement contains effective mechanisms to prevent unwarranted expropriation of the costs of contractual investors invested in a country and mechanisms to settle disputes between contractual parties. Given that there were no objections to the support of this bill at the Economic Policy Committee meeting, and considering that the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority of the Supreme Council had reached a positive conclusion on this ratification, I call on the National Deputies to support these. It's a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u121	Thank you, Alexei Vitaliovich. Have a seat, please. No one wants to speak? All in favor. Let us vote in favour of the law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of Ukraine and the Government of the Republic of Singapore on the promotion and mutual protection of investments. Registration number 0065. [[12:28:52]] For 241 Decision taken. The law is passed. Thank you. Let us go to the section “In summary procedure”. We need to decide that the two bills should be considered in a simplified procedure. Please vote. [[12:29:25]] For 231 Decision taken. A draft Law amending certain laws of Ukraine on the creation of quality management systems, environmental management systems and other management systems is under consideration. Registration number 2800. Deputy Minister of Economy Sluzarenko Oksana Alexandrovna. Please, two minutes. Get ready, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The main objective of the bill is to revitalize the introduction in Ukraine of modern quality management systems, environmental management systems and other management systems according to national and international standards. The bill amends 5 laws of Ukraine, namely the Ukrainian law on local government administrations in order to give local government authorities authority over the establishment of state-owned property systems for quality management, environmental management systems, and other management systems. Under the Ukrainian Act on the purchase of goods, jobs and services for public funds, in addition to the qualifications requirements, the provision of information to the customer on the availability of a quality management system, environmental management systems and food safety management systems. To Ukraine's Housing and Utilities Act, in addition to the powers of the central executive authority on housing and utility issues, to facilitate the creation of quality housing and utility systems by the executives. Under the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Regulations and Procedures for Conformity Assessment and Confirmation of the Replacement of the Term “Environmental Management” into a “Ecological Management System” that will meet the applicable national standard of the UK of ISO 14 000 01, 2006, the Environmental Management System. The introduction of a management system allows for greater competitiveness of production and trust in enterprises, and for the investment attractiveness of the enterprise. According to expert estimates, the market value of enterprises that have implemented the quality management system increases by 10-15 percent. Organize production at minimal cost. The adoption of the law will contribute to the revitalization of the implementation of quality management systems and environmental management systems by Ukrainian enterprises, which in turn will have a positive impact on business development and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u123	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Yeah, from the committee, who's ready to inform? On March 29, the committee decided to support the bill by adopting it as a basis. Yeah, who wants to make a statement, please two in favor, two in favor? Green, red buttons. Please, Bondarchuk. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u124	Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The argument given in the explanatory note for the adoption of the legislative initiative is sound. That's why our faction supports the bill. At the same time, we consider it appropriate to take into account the observation made by the Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council regarding the harmonization of the terminology of this law with the Ukrainian law on accreditation of conformity assessment bodies. So we're proposing to support this bill in the first reading, thinking that it will allow us to adapt, in particular, to European legislation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u125	Thank you. Yes, there are no more, the discussion is over. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending certain laws of Ukraine concerning the creation of a system of quality management, an environmental management system and other management systems. Registration number 2802. Please vote. [[12:34:11]] For 246 Adopted in the first reading of the law. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection is under consideration. [[on Technological Safety]] Registration number 2532. Author of the initiative, National Deputy Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, please. Prepare Zac.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u126	Respectable Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies, is being introduced to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by a draft law amending the law on the legal basis of civil protection. The proposed amendments to the law on the legal basis of civil protection would allow for the full legislative resolution of the powers and responsibilities of State inspectors, civil protection and technological security officials, clarifying the composition and subordination of their territorial and local authorities. In addition, this will enable a distinction to be made between the oversight functions of the Ministry of Fire Safety Emergency Authorities, which are often and specifically defined in particular by the Fire Safety and Civil Protection and Technological Safety Act. Taking into account the current state of technological security of the potential hazard of facilities, the weariness of technological equipment and communications. I am confident that the adoption of this bill will improve public oversight of compliance with the requirements of legislation, which in turn will have a positive impact on the prevention of emergencies, the prevention of death and the trauma to our fellow countrymen from their adverse effects. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the adoption of the law will not require additional funds from the State budget. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council believes that the project can be taken as a basis. The Ukrainian National Deputies, members of the Committee on Environmental Policy and Emergency Situations reviewed the bill and also supported it. Please support the Committee's decision and adopt this bill on first reading, although there are some warnings that we must say today, that we must write this bill very carefully on second reading so that its rules do not affect the mechanisms, let us say so, the approach to our courts, the mechanisms for transport communications in terms of aviation work and a number of other points. I mean, second reading, I think that, together with a professional committee and a professional ministry, we need to work very carefully on this bill so that we can, so to speak, clean up everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u127	Thank you. Yes, from the committee, please, Alexander Victorovich Zac is the first deputy head of the Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and the Elimination of the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u128	Dear Adam Ivanovich, the distinguished ones! For your consideration, a draft law amending the Law on the Legal Basis of Civil Protection is proposed. [[on Technological Safety]] The purpose and ultimate purpose of the bill is, according to the authors, to improve the individual provisions of the Act and to introduce certain provisions of the Act in accordance with the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Emergency and Protection of the Population against the Effects of the Chernobyl Disaster on the Protection of the Population and Territories against Emergencies. In particular, the bill specifies the composition of the units of the specialized central executive body on civil protection issues and defines the powers of the government authority to supervise the matter. The project also provides for the establishment of a government body of State oversight in the area of civil protection, technological security, consisting of a specially mandated central executive body on civil protection, which will carry out a test of technological security. The term “technology security” is therefore introduced. I am confident that the implementation of the proposals contained in the draft will help to improve the institutional framework for civil protection. No additional funds are needed to make the changes envisaged. The expenditure for the implementation of the provisions of the Act may be incurred from the funds provided for in the State budget of Ukraine for the current and subsequent years. The Committee on Environmental Policy, Environmental Management and Disaster Management, having considered the bill at its meeting on 21 February this year, decided to support it and recommend that it be adopted as a first reading basis. It should also be stressed that the Ministry of Emergency and Protection of the Population supports the adoption of the draft law. Therefore, on the basis of the foregoing, I ask you to support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u129	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Write down who you want to speak to. Although the seals need to be changed, costs are needed, so there will be costs. They will be, they will be. Blanks, seals, stamps, posts, plates. Do not be misled. Please, Chechetov. And Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u130	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. The draft law is designed to regulate certain provisions of the above-mentioned Ukrainian law in accordance with the tasks assigned to the Ministry of Emergency Situations of Ukraine and provides for the improvement of the provisions of the Ukrainian Law on Civil Protection in part of the organization of state administration and control in the area of civil protection of the population and territories against technological and other extraordinary situations. The project clarified the composition of the units of the specially authorized central authority on civil protection issues. A government authority has been designated to supervise the field and its officials. The implementation of the proposals contained in the project will make it possible at the legislative level to take due account of the needs of practice in improving the organisational principles of civil protection. I propose to adopt this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u131	Thank you. Please, Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u132	Dear colleagues, the faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine supports this bill. I'm going to say that until recently, the curator of these offices at the level of the area, that it is a necessary, useful and implemented proposal every month in this project, will allow the legislative level to take due account of the needs of practice in improving the organisational principles of civil protection. So we vote in favour of adopting this bill in the first reading, and we will make some proposals during the redrafting. In particular, I also have a number of proposals concerning the coordination of the activities of the administrations, the main administrations, which are subordinated directly to the Ministry and the administrations that are created in the structure of the district administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u133	Yes, the discussion is over. Put to the vote on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the Act amending the Law on Civil Protection Laws, registration number 2532. [[on Technological Safety]] [[12:41:52]] For 237 Adopted in the first reading of the law. And, dear colleagues, we had a bill today, but it fell out for technical reasons, the Draft Law on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. I propose that there be absolute regulatory purity, I place the vote on the inclusion today in the agenda of the Ukraine State Property Fund Act. Please vote. [[12:42:35]] For 237 Despite opposition from some of them, 237 voted. It's a second reading. Bill, you and I have been back to him a few times, we've been over it. Head of the Committee on Economic Policy Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u134	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! In my view, this is the only bill that has been drafted in parliament for 10 years. He went through three calls, several texts, several options, several concepts, the philosophy of the bill, and he wasn't voted in the session room or voted, he wasn't signed by different presidents, I'm not characterizing, just for political reasons. And today we are, indeed, and without much difficulty, as the former head of the Property Fund, I can say that it is very difficult to work for the Fund without having a firm legislative base under its feet, working in a calm situation, but when a political storm is, it is hard for them to do it twice. And the fact that today, despite the political storm, the Property Fund and the head of the Valentina Petrovne Foundation managed to implement the budget plan gave almost one and a half billion money in the first quarter, I am figuratively taking off my hat in front of the fund and before Valentina Petrovna. I want to say that today we have fully completed all the items, all the sections before the comma, agreed with the Mine Fund, agreed with the Minust, agreed with the Cabinet of Ministers, agreed with the Ministry of Finance, a fully balanced bill which, if it is signed and entered into force, will enable the Fund to feel a solid legislative base under the feet and the Treasury Fund together with the Cabinet of Ministers, together with Parliament, to pursue both public policy and privatization and corporate governance. The only clarification was in paragraph 2 of part 3 of the bill's final clauses to replace the word “questions” with the words “in cases of delegation by a trust fund”. Everything else, I repeat, agreed, balanced and yesterday on the committee we held and held, and Valentin Petrovna, we fully linked and agreed in the presence of the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Cabinet of Ministers. Please, this exhausted, I repeat, an outdated bill, which has been drafted by two five-year Soviets for 10 years, to be adopted. And we hope that the President, who really wants privatization, the privatization policy, first and foremost, will sign it immediately. And that law will enter into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u135	Thank you. Now, now. Mikhail Vasilovich, or agreed everywhere. The only thing left to do is talk to Victor Andriovich. Okay. Yes, which of the authors of the amendments that have been tabled and not taken into account insists? None. Who insists on voting rights that are taken into account, but does he have a different opinion? Nor is it. Then again, I would like to point out that, given the amendment that was announced by the committee in the “End of Position” and given that the authors of this bill are dignitaries such as Boki and Spudarenko, I am voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of the Law “On the Fund of State Property of Ukraine”. [[Registration number 1190]] Please vote. [[12:46:37]] For 246 Thank you. Let's welcome Valentina Petrovna with the legalization, half the truth, and we'll demand that she give the billions that she should give to the State budget. Now there is a law. Dear colleagues, all the questions that we brought to the meeting today, we accepted, we discussed. Thus, they have fulfilled their obligations for the day of the plenary. So I close this morning's meeting of the Supreme Council, and I declare it closed. Next, please work on committees and factions. And I'd like to ask you all to participate at 14 o'clock in the first assembly of the national deputies of the first, second, third, fourth.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-19-m0.u136	And the fifth. If I say so, it means the fifth call.
