ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome everyone in this room. We continue the meetings of the Supreme Council. I'd like to start with information. We just had the Conciliation Council. Sign up? Please register, although the registration takes place once, but it is good. Opening an evening session, register. [[16:11:27]] Registered -246 The evening session of the Supreme Council is publicized. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you of the outcome of the Conciliation Council meeting that has just taken place. First and foremost, that the principle that I have declared as Head of the Supreme Council on the inviolability of the rules of the Rules as a key document of the activities of the Supreme Council has been preserved. Item two. We will not now consider any questions but are those provided for in article 16 of the Supreme Council Rules, namely, the election of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. At the same time, I would like to highlight the considerable amount of work that needs to be done to form all the governing bodies of the Supreme Council, namely, the committees of the Supreme Council, the appointment of heads, the number of warehouses, the first substitutes and deputies. I would like to point out that, according to the information provided by the respective MPs, namely, the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” and “Our Ukraine – National Self-Defense” post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine is clearly and exclusively offered to those factions that have not joined the majority. [[Applause]] In view of this and the regulatory requirements, there is a great appeal to all the national MPs, first of all to factions, we need to take a normal approach to selecting such candidates, of course, only those factions that have not entered the coalition that did not form the majority. For this reason, such factions were asked to take a half-hour break for the purpose of holding factions meetings; the second was to hold internal consultations; and the third was to go out with suitable agreed candidates for consideration by the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Now, half a minute, let me. In view of this, I would like to ask you to support the proposals agreed upon by all members of the Conciliation Council for a break of one and a half hours, to allow us to prepare suitable candidates and to hold a secret vote today on the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. The second item is the application for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. As I have already reported, such a candidate has been put forward. That's why we would ask all the MP factions to provide information, and therefore the Supreme Council's apparatus, in order to form a consultation schedule for Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrni as the candidate for Prime Minister of Ukraine's post with all the factions. And paragraph three, which concerns approaches for the Supreme Council committees. The Conciliation Board has offered a wide variety of schemes and approaches for committee formation. In doing so, I would like to point out that until we have identified a number of Committees, we are extremely, practically impossible to share these Committees in proportion to reconcile the position in the Supreme Council walls, and that there is nothing going on right now, and I ask everyone to calm down and realize once again that everything will be within the Rules and not provoke non-regulatory action, including the Head of the Supreme Council. [[Applause]] I'm asking you, we had a few suggestions on this. One of the suggestions. And we have been and are in operation to this day by a legally legitimate preparatory parliamentary group. As one option, it can work out options and offer us a way of dividing committees. However, I think it's mutually acceptable, and I think we're going to make a mutually acceptable decision in about an hour and a half. When we consult on nominees for two important positions. This is the first vice-speaker and vice-speaker, and then we'll move on to the secret voting procedure. If there is a desire to speak and talk, please. Matvienko is on procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u2	Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, “Our Ukraine – People’s Self-Defense” Block. Arsenius Petrovich, I sincerely welcome your position regarding the desire to move into the organization of the work of the Supreme Council solely in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. And I think it's the right thing to do. But I would like to ask you, if we have to continue working today, to vote now for the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council, as at seventeen thirty, it will be too late. And the others. I'd like to ask you, Arseny Petrovich. What is going on around the rostrum today and in the lobby, what is the name of this vachanal? I'm talking to the Party of the Regions, the Communists, have a conscience, the whole of Ukraine is looking at you. What are you doing, please tell me, in this room? I'd like to ask you, Mr. Yatsenuk, do you know what they're standing there and how they explain it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u3	Distinguished People's Deputies! There is a proposal to vote in favour of continuing the work of the Supreme Council, meetings. If by procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u4	One moment, comrades, half a second, please. If you don't mind, no consultants. I will be truly grateful. Zarubinsky's MP, please. Then let's talk about everything in peace. I'm asking for one statement from the faction. Please, Zarubinsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u5	Thank you, Arseny Petrovich. Dear colleagues, I would like to point out something to my colleague, Matthew, that the meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine can be continued by the chairman on its own or autonomously by a decision of only 15 minutes. So it's until 18.15. Anatoly Sergiyovich, when it comes to the vote on the continuation of the meeting in the afternoon after 16 p.m., it is not important to vote now at 4:18 p.m. or 5:30 p.m. because both are illegal, and since the meeting of the Supreme Council can continue only at the morning meeting of the Supreme Council. If we're all regulators and lawyers, let's stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u6	Thank you. Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u7	Simonenko, the Communist faction. We suggest we take a break and, during this break, reconcile those issues that were the subject of discussion at the Conciliation Council is the first. And second of all, I'd like to remind some politicians who have a very short memory, how the shields were closed, how the toilets were closed, where you were running, what you were practicing here, what you were doing. So please don't conclude, because you're the one who provoked this vacchanal. For 8 months, the Supreme Council did not work because of the vacchanal that those who are talking about it are doing.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u8	Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov. From the place, the Turks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to make a little line for the last performance. The thing is, the Supreme Council didn't work because it disgraced itself with corruption and that's why it was dissolved. And thank your majority, who are quite abusing the country, who are creating an energy crisis for the future, and our government will have to solve this for actually embarrassing Ukrainian parliamentaryism. But I hope, dear colleagues, that together we will renew the authority of our Parliament. As far as blocking the rostrum is concerned, or as it's called. Honestly, I don't get it. We had a discussion during the Conciliation Council. No faction has claimed the intention of blocking the rostrum, not even a threat. Either the leaders of the faction "Regions" don't control their faction, and it's just that the emotional MPs are passing by the rostrum, or I'm asking the faction leaders to control their deputies. That's the first one. The second question. Arsenius Petrovich, I am addressing you, I think three factions of Communists, the “Regions” and the “Litvina” break have just been asked, let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u10	Two factions have already asked for it, so in fact, if the ‘Lituinian Block’ joined, they took advantage of their right. They asked for a recess in the morning. Yes, please, for Alexander Valentinovich Turkinov to finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u11	Arsenius Petrovich, if after this break we at the Conciliation Council decide that we have to continue the work until the election, we will be able to do so. But in order for it not to be speculation, it will have to be done by consensus by decision of all factions. Therefore, the proposal is to vote or not vote after the consultation is concluded during this recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u12	Thank you. Litvin Volodymyr Mihajlovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u13	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. We have agreed with you that we will work in accordance with the Rules and this will be the support of the Chief of the Supreme Council. Thus, the Rules clearly stipulate that if there is a need and a need to continue the evening meeting, such a decision may be made at a meeting in the morning. But what I want to say is that at the Conciliation Board meeting, we agreed that we would hold consultations now within an hour and a half. If they are effective, it is clear that we will meet half past six and withdraw from the Rules by voting twice: withdraw from the Rules and the Second, decide on the continuation of the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I am convinced that this will allow us to maintain cleanliness in our actions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat once again the proposal made not only by the Chief of the Supreme Council but by all members of the Conciliation Council. This is a one - and - a - half - hour break for consultations on nominations for the post of First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. I ask you to put to the vote the question of a six-and-a-half-hour break for appropriate consultations. After that, we will conduct appropriate consultations. Two factions? Then give me a written statement from the two factions that you're requesting a technical recess. In doing so, I note that, according to the Rules, two factions have already exercised this right and have no right to use it again. At the same time, such a break may not be more than 30 minutes. Please, who wants to say the words, who wants to say the words? Please, God’s Word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u15	Dear colleagues, I'd like to remind you why our colleagues are now standing by the rostrum. Because at the morning session a demand was made to violate the Rules and create a special body for the drafting of laws that are neither provided for by laws nor by the Rules of Ukraine. If we're actually going back to law school right now, it's okay. And we want to say from the Party of Regions, we repeat: we will not let any letter of the Rules be violated in this Parliament, and we will always demand that all of us support us. What about Mr. Speaker? Dear Mr. Speaker, I'd like to tell you that there was a right to a recess during the morning session. So please give us the break we insist on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u16	Zarubinsky's deputy. Are you on the same occasion, Mr. Zarubinski? Zarubinsky's MP, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u17	Dear Arsenius Petrovich, distinguished colleagues! Well, let's be objective. If at a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and no one can deny it, agreement has been reached, consensus has been reached for a half-hour break, you, Arsenija Petrovich, have the right to announce it. And in principle, you don't even need a vote. I want to say again that after a half-hour break, by voting ad hoc, we can change the procedure and continue the meetings. A break can now be announced in accordance with the decision of the Conciliation Board, which was reached by consensus. It's a normal thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, I am now absolutely at peace with the fact that I have received a written statement from two factions for a recess of 30 minutes, announcing an appropriate recess for consultations on nominations for the First Deputy and Deputy Chief of the Supreme Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your brief information? Regrettably, or fortunately, consultations in the MP factions did not end. I hope that we will come, after all, to the mutually acceptable candidates of the First Deputy Head of the Supreme Council and the Deputy. So let's let the appropriate consultations continue inside the factions. And to that end, a statement from two factions was made for another 30 minutes. So I have to take another 30 minutes off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-12-06-m1.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue the evening session of the Supreme Council. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Head of the Supreme Council has the right to continue for 15 minutes on his own evening session. We did not conclude a consultation at the Conciliation Council. However, I would like to inform you that the process is going on and that's already what we're starting to say that's very positive. Let me brief you on the previous outcome of the negotiations, because it's hard to call them the agreement that is now being reached. And so, first, once again, I note that most in the Supreme Council have offered to those factions that did not join the majority, the position of First Deputy to the Supreme Council. At present, there is no appropriate submission from factions that have not entered the majority. I would like to point out that factions that have not entered the majority are not united by a single document. Therefore, the submission of a single candidate is not a document, but it is the subject of their internal arrangements. In view of this, we propose and ask the leaders of all factions to hold consultations again tomorrow morning to have nominations for the governing bodies of the Supreme Council, namely the Presidency, the First Deputy and the Deputy Head of the Supreme Council. The second is that of the committees, and there's an extremely difficult discussion about the principle of committee distribution. And here, according to the Rules, a clear norm for so-called proportionality. In view of this, there are several approaches that lie in the next approach, the arithmetical proportionality of the division of committees, depending on the presentation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. So the majority is 14, the factions that didn't make up the majority are 13. I mean, given the special commission on privatization. The second approach is an approach that envisions a so-called likely coefficient quota. This approach was applied in 2002. But my personal position was that it was before the changes to the Constitution, which was before, in fact, the formation of the coalition was foreseen. And so it will be questionable to explain from which approach, for example, the Head of the Supreme Council has five points or four or three. Why not 250 in the distribution of one committee or another? However, this is our final agreement, and now, after the closing of the meeting of the Supreme Council, we have not completed the Conciliation Council, and we hope that we will work for quite a long time. Thirdly, with regard to the Prime Minister of Ukraine, and more specifically, the candidates for the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine, I request all MP factions to hold consultations with Timoshenko Yulia Volodymyrovna on the post of Prime Minister of Ukraine. Under the Rules, we have a clear deadline for dealing with this issue, which is a five-day deadline. Therefore, for five days, we must hold appropriate consultations and put the matter to a vote and make the appropriate decision in accordance with the Law on the Cabinet of Ministers. In completing a brief information report, I would like to refer once again to all the faction leaders and to all the national deputies: we should start a normal work of the Supreme Council, form committees, form the Presidency of the Supreme Council, ensure the right of opposition in the Supreme Council, and finally start a legislative and legislative work, because delay every day is worth a lot to the country. We go into a year -- we don't have the State Budget Act, we're actually going into a catastrophic situation if the Supreme Council doesn't start working actively and normally. The evening meeting of the Supreme Council is considered closed, the next meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you.
