ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u1	Deputies, please prepare for registration. There's a roll-up. Please. [[17:34:46]] 262 deputies were registered, but Adam Ivanovich failed to insert his card, thus 263. 263 National MPs. The evening session shall be declared open. We usually discuss the question of appointment of judges on Thursday afternoons. on the election of judges, so I invite the head of the Justice Committee, Sergio Kiwalov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u2	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The Committee of the Supreme Council on Justice considered at its meeting on 4 April 2007 the appointment of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Supreme Special Court of the Supreme Court for the selection of judges on an open-ended basis, as outlined in the draft Supreme Council of Ukraine Decree 3440 of 4 April this year. Honorable national deputies, according to the procedure of the court, are given the names of the judges. The judge rises from the scene and, if he is warned, the national deputies report it from the scene. The committee recommends that judges be elected on an indefinite basis: the Court of Appeal of the Luhansk Region of Verbatic Vladimir Vladimirovich, Reus Evgen Valeriyovich, Sergey Svetlana Volodymyrovna, Jaresk Andrija Volodymyrovich; the Court of Appeal of the Odessa Region of Hončarenko Valentina Mikhailnovna; the Court of Appeal of the Czerniewec Region of Odinak Alexander Alexandrovitch; the local Korostišov district court of the Žitomir district of Matské Evgen Mikolaiovich; the local Royal District Court of Žitomir Gansecki Irina Arkadyevna; the local Johno-Frankow City Court of Ivano-Frankiv District of Horiqo Maria Dmitrovna; the local Bilocerkow District Court of Kiev, Bakumenko Lian Anatoliyevna; The local Rye-Schewsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u3	Rysztewski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u4	Rysztev city court of the Kyiv district of Zakabluk Alexander Volodymirovich; the local Lenin district court of Kirovgrad, Butelska Galina Valentinovna; the local Yelanec District Court of the Mikolai district of Chernjakovo Natalija Volodymyrovna; the local Kremenchuck District Court of Poltava District of Saint Helena Volodymyrna; the local Oktavran district court of Poltava Kuznietsov Olen Yuriovna; the local Ravenna City Court of the province of Berdija Mikola Anatoliyovich; the local Yellow District Court of Kharkiv Kamishov Ludmila Mikolayovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u5	Kamishev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u6	The local Kyiv District Court of Kharkiv Popras.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u7	A pig.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u8	The Pig of Viktor Alexiyovich; the local District Court of Kharkiv Bogdan Marina Volodymyrna; the local Ordjokidzew district court of Harkova Glibko Olen Vasilovna; the local Frunzen District Court of Kharkiv Babkov Tetjana Viktorovna; the local Redwater District Court of Kharkiv Shelest Irina Mikolaynowna; the local Danube District Court of the Hmelnick district of Artemczuk, Valentin Mikolayevna; the local Hmelnicki District Court of the Hmelnicki district of Loginov Svetlana Mikolayevna; the local Kamyan District Court of the Cherka district of Cheban, Marina Mikolayevna; the local Canov Regional Court of the Cherkas region of Leon Oksana Mikolayevna; the local district court of Chernigiv district of Smal Inna Anatoliyevna; the local Chronobai district court of the Cherka district of Sinecko Ludmila Andriyevna; the local Spolyan district court of the Cherka district of Gavinchuk Tetjan Mikolayevna; the local Pridniprovsky District Court of Cherkasa Kucherenka Volodymira Grigorovitch; the local Sosnov district court of Cherkasy, Father Sergey Mihajlovich; The local Pecher district court of Kyiv Smik Svetlana Ivanovna. You are also given a draft decree number 3440-2 concerning the judge of the local Primorski District Court of Odessa Teryohin Sergio Evgeniovich. The committee is asking for the support of this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u9	Yeah, yeah. Ladies and gentlemen, the comments did not speak to any of the names. Is it? Please, Hellcat. Give him your word, Alexander Mikolayovich. No, no, don't rush to talk, it'll work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u10	Honourable Alexanderovich, distinguished radio listeners, respected judges, is now being monitored by the entire country and all are asking: “What is going on, is the Supreme Council ligettimen or not ligettimen?” This is the procedure that answers all questions because there are senior lawyers in this bed right now. And if they had doubted this procedure for one second, they would have been able not to attend. That's why I want to invite the entire hall to applaud these people and vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u11	Alexander Mikolaiovich, you mean they're not choosing us, we're choosing them today. So they should applaud, if we vote, one thing. The other one. I'm asking you, legal judges, great lawyers, you said right, they know the Constitution as well as we do, and they know that under the Constitution, Parliament exercises power continuously. And to anyone who doesn't speak there, he wrote, published, or whatever, until there are new deputies sitting in the session room and taking an oath, making an oath, until then Parliament is working. And all of you, in Russian, by repeating you, have no legal profit in this respect in relation to the procedure itself, nor do they have a bearing on the status of judges, nor do they have on the status of deputies. That's what I'm talking about. Paul Gnatovich, of course, cannot be sanctified by water until you say so. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u12	Thank you, Alexander Alexander! You know, today is the day before such a great Orthodox festival, and it is truly heartwarming to say good words today from the Plainshine, more than ever before, a decent man in the Plains City Court of Burdy Mikola Antonovich. And I believe that today and in his person and everyone in the boat judge is truly faithful to his people. And we firmly believe that, just as this man, Berdiya Mikola Antonovich, will defend the court and the Constitution, stand up, it will be wonderful for the future of our Ukraine. Therefore, it is only today that we wish for the good, happiness, and fruitful work of these judges that we will now vote on. I think there is nothing today: doubt from the soul to wish them good and happiness and all the best, and in their person they would like to welcome all the judges of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u13	Thank you. Please. Do you have any objections? None. Nicholas Ilych Sadow, he's got a note, a minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u14	I'm joining my comrades today, and it's going to be Judge Butelska's election from Kirovgrad County, and I welcome her that today she, I think, will be approved by a judge, because Kirovograd is specific in this particular area of the judiciary. So at the same time, I'm addressing all the judges, considering that today the Pure Thursday, that people here are meeting with pure souls, morals and well-known laws, and they're not afraid to come to this room at such a tense moment when unconstitutional orders are issued. That's why I welcome everyone again and we'll vote friendlyly for the judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, by procedure, I should not give my word for comment. Because every performance is like that, then someone might take pressure on the court the same way. I beg you, have you identified yourself on the point that there were no observations? But I know Baburin, he was commenting on the timing. Please, Babourin's last speech. The last one.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u16	Alexander Alexandrovic is all right, and I wanted to ask you who is accompanying or representing judges from the Supreme Court of Ukraine today. So this is where the President of the Supreme Council worked, i.e. the President of the Supreme Court. It is not visible today: I am sick or have responded, I understand the political involvement of the President of the Supreme Court, but today we must have all the apolitical ones and the head of the Supreme Court must be political and must be present here. At least there were deputies. That's a shame. And by the judge, we'll establish it today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u17	Because there was a remark. Please. Since the remark was before me, I want to say, it is good that you said that day after day at work, people have already fixed it. The head of the Supreme Court is not obliged to represent the judges. Therefore, the procedure is now being carried out as stipulated in the Rules, Sergey Vasilovich reported. I'm voting on a motion to appoint appointed judges for a permanent, termless election in my posts. I'd like to make a statement. 3440, 3440-2 decrees. Please. [[17:47:41]] For 260 Decision taken. [[Applause]] We want the judges to be strict and fair always, responsible for carrying out their high mission, to wish that they were always the way they are today, look at how beautiful they are, because they are for the bottom of the day. Good luck with that. Thank you. [[Applause]] Everything? Sergey Vasilovich, aren't you going to report your release? Tell me, because this is Project 3440.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u18	Dear colleagues, we have another Order for the release of judges. But we are at the time of the great Christmas, the great light holiday of the Passover, so today is the holiday of the Pure Thursday, perhaps we will not be discussing issues related to the dismissal of the judge today. Maybe they can. Sanich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u19	Well, if this release follows their claim.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u20	No, no. For breaking your vows.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u21	A violation of an oath. Well, that's all we have to do. There's not a lot of them, let's get rid of them. Come on, stand up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u22	Dear colleagues, the Committee on Justice at its meeting on April 4, 2007, considered the application of the High Council of Justice for the release of judges from the local courts in connection with the application for resignation. In their statements, the judges indicated that they had written them voluntarily. The Justice Committee supports the above-mentioned submission of the High Council of Justice and has put forward an appropriate draft decree under registration number 3440-1 of April 4, this year. The committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine be released from office as subsequent judges. Local Mukativ District Court of Zakarpatsk, Monic Vladimir Alexiyyovich, in connection with a violation of the judge’s oath. Dear colleagues, I have to say that Monich Vladimir Alexiyyovich sent a telegram today to report that he is in hospital from 13.03. In 2007, it was certified by the head of the Mukatov Hospital in Central District. Polyclinics. The Hospital of Mucachov. We'll have to vote separately for breaking our oaths. And he asked not to consider his statement without his presence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u23	Sergei Petrovich. Questions to you. Now, wait. Head, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u24	Dear colleagues! I was in charge of three courts, and the Supreme Administrative Court agreed with me that the presence of officials elected by the Supreme Council or appointed or appointed by the President is not in employment relations with the constitutional body that chooses them and appoints them. This was about the release of Attorney General Piscoon. I think Judge Monich understands very well that he has not made a contract of employment with the members of the Supreme Council or with the Supreme Council itself. And so no matter what he's in the hospital, the Supreme Council has all the constitutional powers, and in accordance with the Supreme Administrative Court's decision in the Piscot case, we can release Monic for breaking his oath, because this is not a labour relationship, this is the relationship of the constitutional body that chooses, appoints and releases. We're not gonna break it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u25	Thank you. Paul Gnutovich, tell us what you think.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u26	Alexandre Alexandrovich, it is unfortunate that our colleague, the chairman of the committee, Mr. Kiwalov for the second time, was an example of the Plain Judge, a second example. And I support my colleague, Mr. Headman, that we must put an end to this kind of behavior where you protect, knowing clearly that we must not rule out today. The committee's passed, it's fine. This patriot, he has already felt that there is no FACT, there is no “Our Ukraine”, he knows that the coalition of this offender will not support today, so he is cunning, representing these hospital letters and so on. So I propose to put it to a vote. And in no way does this judge have to go through such a trick.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u27	I see. There was a single motion to vote, since there is a difference, the rest of them apply for retirement or cannot work for the disease, and the judge with the breach of an oath, he votes separately. I am voting on the proposal to release Monich Vladimir Alexiyyovich from the post of Judge Muchakov of the Zakarpatsky District Court in connection with the breach of an oath. Please. [[17:54:36]] For 261 Decision taken. Next.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u28	The local Kamyansko-Dniprovovsky District Court of Zaporezki District of Severin Mikolaajovic in connection with the application for resignation; The local Tokmatsky District Court of the Hancheva Region of Gancheva Love Viktorovna in connection with the application for a state of health pension; In connection with the application for resignation and the local Malinovo District Court of Kiev, the local Regional Court of the city of Kiev, is the local Regional Court of Boychuk Jeanne Viktorovna.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u29	The cities of Odessa, excuse me, of Elisha’s Ludmila Ivanovna in connection with the application for a state of health. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u30	There is a proposal made by the committee, agreed upon and prepared in accordance with the Rules, for the discharge of judges named Severin, Ganchev, Boychuk, Elishaov. I'm voting on this proposal. [[17:56:00]] For 260 The decision is made, thank you. We've moved from the morning session to the evening information of the leaders of law enforcement and so-called force structures on the basis of their assessment of the political situation and the state of calm or excitement in society and so on, that is to say, the analysis of the situation from their point of view. So far I'm looking at Alexander Ivanovich, Attorney General. Please come to the rostrum. That's the deal. In 10 minutes, maybe sooner or later. And within 10 minutes, a question, if necessary. Yeah? Let's make a deal. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u31	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexander. Dear Mr. Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine! Honorable National Deputies of Ukraine! First of all, I would like to point out how a Ukrainian citizen is deeply concerned about the processes that are taking place in our country during the last days. Today, virtually all political forces agree that, following the announcement by the President of Ukraine, the decree “On the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” and the publication of the relevant acts of the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers in Ukraine have created a crisis situation that threatens its stability and public tranquillity. It's not my job to identify the guilty and the right in this conflict. At the same time as a citizen and the Attorney General, I have the right and duty to call upon all parties to resolve it by peaceful dialogue and by means of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. The reference to the Basic Law can be heard from all sides today. At the same time, the only body in the state authorized to rule on the constitutionality of the acts of the President, the Supreme Council and the Cabinet of Ministers is the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. Without his conclusion, all other claims are merely comments from interested persons. In this regard, I support the position of those officials who appeal to the Constitutional Court for their verdict in this matter as soon as possible. Now you can often hear a comparison of today's events in Ukraine to the situation in Russia for 93-94 years. I would like to remind you that at that time the Constitutional Court of the Russian Federation ruled on the constitutionality of presidential decrees for a few days, and the independent and principled position of the head of the court, Valery Dmitrovitch Zorkin, raised respect even for his opponents, not to mention his current fellow members of the Venice Commission. The next important legal democratic solution to the existing situation is to prevent the politicization of law enforcement agencies. By the very nature of their functions, they must act impartially and objectively, responding appropriately to any violations of the rule of law and the rule of law that they do not come out of. Public order in Ukraine relies directly on internal affairs. For their part, prosecutors should ensure that laws are enforced within the limits laid down by the Constitution and by valid legislation, and carry out their tasks to protect the rights of citizens and the interests of the State against unlawful interference with the principles of independence and non-partisanism. For that second April of this year, I held a meeting with my deputies, and the next day I sent instructions to all the subordinate prosecutors I owed. First, ensure proper organization of work regarding timely and qualitative consideration of appeals, statements and reports of crimes, effective and objective response to detected violations. Secondly, take comprehensive measures to eliminate violations of legislation, regardless of their origin, and to restore the rights violated, on the basis that it is available to decide on the issue of bringing the guilty persons to account in the order provided for in the law. High-level prosecutors should ensure proper control of the legality and reasonableness of decisions taken. Thirdly, to ensure effective prosecutorial supervision of law enforcement in the activities of other law enforcement agencies. Fourthly, to exercise their powers on the basis of the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, not allowing for illegal interference or influence by any authority or local self-government, officials, media, and public and political organizations. And, fifthly, to exclude cases involving prosecutors in political action and agitation, to prevent them from being involved in political opposition. This position was informed by the authorities of the Ukrainian Attorney General's Office, as well as by the President of Ukraine at his meeting on 3 April with the heads of law enforcement agencies. I hope you support this position. Finally, I want to point out that the criminal situation in Ukraine is generally stable. The authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office are in the usual mode. We coordinate our actions with other law enforcement agencies and together we will take all appropriate measures to ensure the rule of law and order in the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u32	Is there a question for Alexander Ivanovich? Sign up, I see your hands up. By procedure, within a minute of the question, within a minute of the answer. We signed up, we agreed before that until 10 minutes. Please, Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u33	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Alexander Ivanovich, national wisdom says that it is easy to walk in the way of lies and the way of truth. Analyzing the path of Yushchenk, I'm convinced that this whole path 0 is the path of lies. We are reminded of his promises: the bandits — the prisoners who are held accountable — will be the organizers and perpetrators of the killing of Gongadze, Gethman, Chernobyl, and so on. On this he made his own pyar and won the election. But what surprises me most is that so - called poisoning has been initiated. There was also a pianist on this poison, and today, I am convinced, from a variety of information that most of all does not want the truth about the poisoning of Yushchenko himself. Tell me, who, when, and how did he try to poison? Was it really? Is this really another lie? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u34	Vasil Stepanovich, Alexander Ivanovich, let's still focus on the issues that have been put into order today -- the information about today's state of affairs. Since you understand very well when the case is being investigated, the Attorney General cannot say anything about it, for this is the secret of the investigation. If you have such a greater interest, you can create a special commission or write a letter of appeal, or you can go to the prosecutor's office and get some information confidentially, if you can do so, and on the stand he can't do so, and I would ask him to be within the limits of the law, if he can give any general information, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u35	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I can only inform you of what is really going on in this criminal case. Poisoning, the fact of poisoning is established by experts, which is no secret to the investigation now, since this has been repeatedly highlighted in the media. Who's involved in this poisoning is not installed. The investigation continues, investigators and operational investigations are being carried out in this criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u36	Bronnikov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u37	Alexander Ivanovich, a brief question, yes, no. Is there a case against Bondar that has not allowed MPs on the threshold of the President's Secretariat? The second question will be asked by my colleague, Alexander Pecklusenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u38	Bondar’s criminal case is still pending, since it was only yesterday that these events took place, and yesterday, it seems, today, that two national deputies have been approached, so I have been instructed to conduct a check. And we're going to make the right decision in a 10-day period, if there's a reason, we're going to break the criminal case.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u39	Paklusenko still has time to ask a question, please, Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u40	Hell-bent, the faction of the Regions. First of all, I thank you for your sincere statement and the fact that you are here answers many questions. In parallel, I would like to ask you, as lawyer number one in this country, not to comment on the decree, it is indeed the case of the Constitutional Court. Please tell me and give a legal assessment of the action of the Chair of the CEVC if the constitutionality issue is not resolved to date? Does he have the right to initiate the electoral campaign? The second question to you, as to the lawyer, if a request is made to the Constitutional Court, do you think that this matter is a matter before the Constitutional Court has the right to initiate the electoral campaign procedure? And your attitude towards those signatories, in particular the governors, who signed their support for the doubtful decree?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u41	Thank you for asking. I want to point out right now, honourable national MPs, that they are more of a political character than a legal one. I really can't evaluate the Presidential Order because I don't oversee the legality of the decrees, and it turns out that I can't answer any other questions. This is similar to how I was instructed by the President at the meeting to conduct an immediate review of the legality of the Supreme Council's decrees, which were adopted on April 2. In a similar way, I told the President that I could not do a background check on these issues, because this does not fall within my competence under the Constitution and the Ukrainian Pro Prosecutor's Office Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u42	Thank you. Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u43	And I would also like, honourable Members, to draw your attention, there were a few phone calls yesterday -- 4 from the Party of the Regions -- that I did a background check on the Central Electoral Commission. Yes, I would like to inform you that, according to current legislation, I am not overseeing the activities of law enforcement by the Central Electoral Commission. If there is a breach in the activities of the Central Electoral Commission and also in the grassroots, this is a matter of jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u44	Verni Dubov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u45	Dear Alexander Ivanovich! You already know that yesterday a large group of national MPs, a boy from the President's Department, refused to let us into the room, considering that we no longer have that status and that we no longer have that status. Although, of course, he could have let himself go as a private citizen of Ukraine. I'd like to ask the first question of this small question: do the deputies now pass to the Attorney General's Office, do you have any objections from your side or from the other side? And the second question is incorrect, of course, asking you about the legality of the decree, and I'm not doing it. But I would like to say this: do you not think that in such a situation, in a critical situation, it would be essential for you and the other heads of law enforcement agencies to address the people where you call for law and order and other things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u46	Thank you, Ivan Vasilovich! As for the first question, I think that even the national MPs present in this room know that there are no obstacles to the General Prosecutor’s Office, and especially to me there are no telephone calls, and even so, if there is a national MP, I always accept him. With regard to turning to the people. Ivan Vasilovich, I think this refers more to the people's deputies, to politicians, and not to the Attorney General, it's not the situation. What? My appeal is in the form of an instruction to the district prosecutors that they work only on the right plane.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u47	Thank you. Silchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u48	Please pass the word to Jaroslav Mendoza.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u50	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Alexandre Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u51	There's something wrong.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u52	Members, the public has recently witnessed the appearance of messages from various power structures in order to perform their own functions. In particular, there is today a statement by the Ukrainian Security Service that it guarantees elections, ensures elections, and so on. Question one. Is this part of the Ukrainian Security Service’s function? And the second. At the government meeting, Defence Minister Gritsenko said he would comply with the President's order to organise the election in the army. Is it the role of the Secretary of Defense to organize elections in the army, or is it still the function of the Central Electoral Commission? And whether he should be guided.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u53	Let me finish because he's been picking up microphones for a while.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u54	And should the Minister of Defense be governed by the Constitution and the laws of the State or only by orders in this case of the President of the State? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u55	Thank you for asking. Well, I think I'll start over. I think it's clear to everyone that the Minister of Defense, every official and average person, must first and foremost comply with the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. The President has a commanding officer, so he can give certain orders and orders to the Minister of Defense, who is responsible for his execution. With regard to the holding of elections, these are primarily the prerogatives of the Central Electoral Commission and the lower electoral committees. The Security Service, according to the law on this service, must first and foremost ensure the security of the State, national, state interests, the integrity of sovereignty, and so forth. As far as the Security Service is concerned, I don't know if they're going to do elections there, they're only going to have to ensure peace and security in our country. If there are such cases that they are directly involved in the election, they really should not do so. If these are signals, please consider.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u56	Baranowski instead of Redfoot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u57	Thank you, Alexander Alexander. Dear Alexander Ivanovich, yesterday our fellow MP, the National Bulba, informed the deputy corps and the entire Ukrainian public that the head of the Poltava district administration had gathered all the heads of the district administrations of the Poltava region and forced them to sign a paper that said they were supporting the decree and so forth. In my view, this is a violation of the man’s honor, his dignity. Today, the Constitution guarantees everyone freedom. This is a function that he made them perform that has nothing to do with their functional responsibilities. Whether the criminal case is open to such pressure, blackmail, I'd say.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u58	Thank you for asking. This is the first I've heard of it. Let's do it this way. I'll have the prosecutor of the Poltav district handle this case, and if we do a proper test, if that's true, it'll be confirmed, it'll be the appropriate response from the prosecutor's office.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u59	Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Of course, give such an assignment, but Alexander Petrovich may not be happy with the hope of justice in this regard, for the district administrators may not say that they were forced to sign. Even though everyone knows it's true. Thank you, Alexander Ivanovich. Please, Interior Minister Vasil Petrovich Tsushko. Similarly, up to 10 minutes per report can be less than 10 minutes per question.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u60	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished people's deputies. The Ministry of the Interior is governed by strict compliance with the Constitution and the Ukrainian Law in the face of a worsening political situation in Ukraine. Our main task is to prevent people from clashing with different political forces. At the same time, we are fully engaged in crime prevention and public order. The IMF believes that the political crisis must be resolved at the political level through constructive negotiations between the President of Ukraine and the leaders of the political forces. If the compromise fails, all parties to the conflict must be guided by the decision of the Constitutional Court. No forceful solution to the political conflict is unacceptable. In this regard, I have taken the following decision. On 3 April, I signed an order to transfer internal affairs units to an enhanced option of service. Established operational headquarters in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, regional and transport offices. A 24-hour mission of the Ministry of Internal Affairs has been established, investigative teams and documenting groups have been formed, the security of important and particularly important sites has been strengthened, additional militia equipment has been sent to civilian mass locations, a mobile reserve of forces and funds has been created in the event of a threat of group violations of public order or mass unrest. About 3,000 members of the Kiev garrison participate in public order activities daily, and about 1,000 special-purpose troops are on the reserve of the Minister. [[It's in the capital.]] In order to strengthen the Kiev militia, 1,165 militias were recruited from the regions. The operational situation, both in Kiev and throughout the country, remains stable. About 3,000 crime incidents are recorded every day. More than half of them have been exposed by police officers in the form of official language, “on hot leads” or, in other words, during the course of the day. We estimate that 20,000 people from different political forces participate in mass events in Kiev alone every day. The Minister of the Interior was formally requested by the leadership of the Supreme Council to strengthen the protection of the building of the Supreme Council and make it impossible to disrupt its work. In this regard, the Supreme Council building is taken under 24-hour enhanced protection, which is carried by approximately thousands of appropriately formed militia personnel. We believe that this is enough to eliminate any force action against the Supreme Council of Ukraine. At the request of the Director-General of the Public Prosecutor's Office, five administrative buildings of the Office of the Attorney-General have been provided with 24 hours of external protection since 3 April. Individual tasks are assigned to the police's auto-inspection on rail transport in order to prevent protestors from arriving with unauthorized, say, items. More than 300 buses are scheduled daily between Kiev and the region, which deliver to the capital and import participants in mass events. Between April 2nd and April 4, approximately 8.5,000 trains arrived in Kiev. Citizens. In all, almost 500 GAI workers working on three shifts a day are employed every day in the capital to ensure road safety. We have introduced passenger traffic control of objects that can be used in mass disturbances — weapons, explosives, drums, fittings, flammable substances and others. The same activities are carried out in the Office of the Interior in all regions of Ukraine. The police fully control the rule of law situation in the country. At the same time as a strengthened service regime has been introduced in each city, each area has its own plans in place. That is why I am asking politicians and citizens who see that the equipment has increased, not to react or to panic, because yesterday this was the case when the Ukrainian press has increased the number of police guards. Nevertheless, I believe that the keys to the crisis are still in the hands of the President of Ukraine, in the hands of political forces, and can be negotiated. Thank you. I'm ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u61	Please sign up. We've had a deal for 10 minutes. Marmazov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u62	Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u63	Matthew? Please. He'll be here in no time. Stay focused for now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u64	Thank you. I have in my hands, Vasil Petrovich, a telegram from the Uzhgorod City Head Sergey Ratushnyak, in which he speaks of a failure to respond in particular to a violation of the law by the Uzhgorod City Police Department, which I read literally: “... does not interfere with the unlawful actions of individual entrepreneurs to prevent the execution of decisions by the court and city authorities.” In private conversations, entrepreneurs and civil servants do not hide that the initiative for further free trade and so forth, thus self - repairing the legitimate actions of government authorities and local self - government comes from Baloga. How could they comment, Vasil Petrovich? What's going on here, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u65	I am reporting to you that, let's say, we have information from our law enforcement liaisons from other agencies that today Zakarpatje is one of the most criminogenic regions and that there is a figure of 27 ICG. I formed an operational group, set up the task of the Directorate-General for Anti-Criminality. That group works there. I think that you will soon hear the results of the work and, regardless of who is there and how, we will act by law and I think we will make it right. The same group is formed and operates in Donetsk County after the shootings you know in Mariupola. The same group works for Kiev, Dnepropetrovsk and Odessa. Oh, the city of Kiev after the well-known shootings in Kiev and the murder of Mr. Kurochkin. So I'm not going to talk anymore, because that's information right now. Well, let's say it's not for a general announcement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u66	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u67	At the same time, I would like to respond to allegations that the “wort in the law” is returning. We already detained 14 of those thieves in the law, and yesterday we detained another one. These are mere insinuations, but I would like to address you, distinguished people's deputies, to be more careful when passing laws. On December 14th, you passed the Olijnik and Port No. on the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Code, articles 236-7 and 236-8. [[People's Deputies of the Faction of the BUIT]] We asked the President to use the veto. [[The Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Office of the Prosecutor-General, the Office of the ……]] Unfortunately, he didn't veto. Under this law, it means that today any court can decide to stop the prosecution. And consequences. Alexander Alexandrovich, don't interrupt, I want to say this to society and to the MPs that this needs to be changed urgently. In fact, the law paralysed the entire law enforcement system of the country. I bring examples. So it's a bank that Kiev's universal. The criminal case is concluded, we have almost completed the transfer of 122 million grevens, fuses, and 172 million heated legal entities. The court ruled, and by these articles, the court therefore decides without the participation of the prosecutor, and the materials are heard in court. And we no longer have the right to work in this criminal case. 300 million were stolen from people. Second moment. We took the Tochmash police station. 300,000 bracelets in Donetsk bribe. Got it with the police, got it classically. The Court decides to cease the criminal case. Let's move on. They beat up a journalist on a train because she asked if you see a neighbor in a pile at 12 o'clock turn off the lights and go to bed. So she's getting beat up. We're bringing a criminal case. The Court shall decide: the case shall be closed. That's what's happening today. Under such circumstances, thieves will return to the law. And don't throw a stone at the police, the Attorney General, and so on. Neither they nor we can do anything. That's what I'm saying, and I'm saying again, that the two MPs who are saying today are disbanding Parliament. Parliament must take this decision urgently. Otherwise, to law enforcement authorities. We'll catch them, but they'll release them in two days. And there's nothing we can do. I'm sorry to say this emotionally, but it's the paralysm of the law enforcement system, if we're talking about citizens. So it's one thing to say another thing to do. And after such a law, it's hard. It's not politics. I speak now as the Minister of the Interior. I'm talking about it with pain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u68	Thank you. Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u69	Dear Vassil Petrovich. National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I would like to thank you for the fact that in this difficult situation, the police are conscientiously carrying out their duties, not interfering with the political component of the opposition. And this ensures that the bloodshed that some people fear will have no place in our society. But I'd like to ask you that. One of our colleagues is the National Deputy of the BUTT faction School. Two people died. Please tell me what's new, besides getting information from the media? What could you say about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u70	Ivan Nikolayevich, thank you for asking. A delicate case concerns our colleague, the deceased, the family members of the driver's family, who is the second participant in the accident. There's a trial going on. So I put the task before the investigative authorities so that there would be no impact on this investigation, so that there would be an objective consideration. Because it is indeed the fault of one who crossed the double total, but it raises the question of why the stopping path and the reaction did not allow the accident to stop and not allow it. Let me therefore, when the case is concluded and brought to trial, then I will tell you that I am not like some of my predecessors when they reveal and make pear out of the tragedy of men.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u71	Baburin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u72	Baburin, Communist faction, Zaporozhye. Dear Vassili Petrovich, you may know of an incident that was before the Cave Court. I must immediately say that your subordinates worked professionally and expeditiously. But after they left, he arrived today, today, with the infamous Moscal and the head of the Secretariat of Galatia. So that's when they shut themselves up and stayed in a room of judges and assistants, who seemed to have been beaten up there, in 15 minutes when they discovered it. Moskal explained that he was looking for the Alpha here, and this Galetaj said he was conducting an interrogation, a request from the victim. So, you'll explain to me, after your employees left, there was a conversation with this guy as a victim. On what grounds is there no pressure, no instruction or anything else? She was then taken to a medical examination. Is that how you would comment on the actions of the Chief of Staff?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u73	So let me not comment, we're dealing with this incident now. I can tell you that we've taken full custody, strengthened security, and there's a judge's statement that he's been physically threatened on the phone. We will provide him with the necessary physical protection and judicial protection. There'll be more information on a particular incident, I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u74	Tweezer. Alexandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u75	Thank you. Alexandrovsky, the Communist faction. I have a question like this: I have regional executive heads who are in charge of the force. Yesterday, in Harikov, for example, a panel was held in the Kharkiv Authority, including the Deputy Head of Administration, the name of his Guardian, and he reviewed the security situation, the fight against crime in Kharkiv region, why he referred to the killing of Kurokchin, which was beyond the Harkov region in general. I have the impression that the situation is under pressure, that they are trying to draw a picture of what would be supposed to be the conclusion that the law enforcement system is not working, and that the President is our guardian of the Constitution, of security and, so to speak, will provide everyone with protection. Please tell me, to what extent are your structures subordinated to the heads of the regional administrations?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u76	Thank you very much. No head of administration has managed, managed or managed the police and any other official other than Tsushko. These attempts have already been made on the part of some who have been seconded and so forth will not work. And let me from this rostrum thank the entire militia for understanding the situation and for implementing the militia law. I thank the entire composition of Ukraine. Next, I gave a telegram yesterday to all internal affairs bodies, which stated that there was no policy at all, respect for political neutrality, discharge of my duties under the law on militia and no going beyond that law. Further, I inform you that I report to the Prime Minister on a daily basis, report to the President on a daily basis, and that the greatest upheaval is around the internal forces. No one will ever use internal forces anywhere. But the internal forces in Kiev are being used to help protect public order.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u77	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u78	When mass events are held for one simple reason: the garrison of Kiev does not withstand tension, because we need to be on duty at night. This has been reported to the President, as reported to the Prime Minister, and I will do it in public. The militia won't be public. That is why I assure both those deputies who are in the hall and those who are outside the hall to stop insinuating around the Ministry of the Interior, if anyone is interested, let them address it directly. Let's move on. The interaction between me, the Actuajchenko-Actor-Actor-in-Charge, Pluto-Chief of the UDF, we have direct interaction, we will provide these solutions. Next. There is an order from the Cabinet of Ministers to take over the Cabinet of Ministers on 30 March. I'm doing it. And the Cabinet of Ministers has a permanent reserve of the Minister of the Interior. Very simple: the Court of the Cabinet of Ministers is most convenient for the protection of three buildings, in the event of any need for increased security. It is in view of: the Administration of the President, the Cabinet of Ministers and the Supreme Council. The President called me on this matter. I literally told him today. They're not internal troops, they're ordinary cops. Therefore, once again, I do not say anything wrong in the plans, nor anywhere. If anyone's interested in the situation, I'll report it. I'm not gonna hide anything. And unless there are any external provocations, there will be no provocations on our part, I assure you once again, the Parliament of Ukraine. Next. I told the PNB today that I'm going to recognize Parliament and I'm going to come to you and report on any challenge. [[Applause]] Second. I recognize the Government and recognize the President, and, as far as the competence of each of these bodies is concerned, I carry out my mandate. But I want everyone to understand that ultimately personal responsibility, as the President stressed at the meeting yesterday, is on me. I also want everyone to understand that in the country, I have a personal responsibility. And I will carry it within the framework of the law and the Constitution in force, and I will not allow the police to face any provocations to use it. You know that always afterwards, those who carried out the task never find those who gave the orders. Therefore, any orders, if I am given only in writing and then I will analyse their legality, their execution. I assure you and the entire people of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u79	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Ladies and gentlemen. Aah! I forgot, I called his last name, yeah. Yeah, that's right. Hara Vasily Grigorovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u80	Dear Vasili Petrovich, since the second of April, you know this, and since the issuance of the anti-constitutional criminal decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council, there has been a very dangerous situation in the country. And President Yushchenko is called President of the Civil War, and that is what he leads to. Please tell me why article 60 of the Constitution is not being implemented, which states that there is legal responsibility for the authors of illegal decrees and enforcers. With regard to the author, it is clearly inviolableA. But the governors swear by their illegal methods, they obey this order, they pressure the president of the Rajgosadistration, Yuri Pavlenko of Zitomir has gathered the Force and said that we will carry out any task of the President, Davidovich without the commission's decision to allow the team to work on the ground and so on. Why are we silent? And the second. How do you feel about the attempted freedom of Deputy Prime Minister Andrey Kluev, Dmitry Tábočnik and the entire list not only in the media, but also the deputies reported from the rostrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u81	Thank you. I'll start with the second question about Kluev, he told us that he was physically threatened with physical violence against him, we took him into protective custody, we obey the law. In relation to the statements made by the heads of administration and so on. I can assure you once again that if one of the militias goes outside and forgets who gives them orders and who they're accountable to, they won't work in the militia. With regard to legal assessments, what's going on is not police competence, so I'm not going to comment on it. As a member of the PNB, as a politician, I have today expressed my attitude by voting at a meeting of the PNB. As Minister of the Interior, I am implementing the Constitution and the Police Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-05-m1.u82	Thank you. We wish Vasil Petrovich and Alexandre Ivanovich professionalism in all the officials working in these departments. And then I'll say this. Anatoly Stepanovich Grizenko was asked the same way. He's obviously busy because he didn't show up at the meeting. I think we'll have time to ask him a question about that, including. Please. Let's move on. About Litvina Mikli Mikhailovich. He was at our meeting this morning and his chief of staff was present. However, I can tell you that today there was a meeting of the PNB, where I was present, to the commander of the border forces in the context of today's situation, in fact, there were no questions and no questions. Because he clearly fulfills his functions and adjusts his services to his subordinates. Therefore, we may not be wasting his time and your time on this information. According to the head of state security. For some reason he's not here right now, so I saw him and reminded him that the meeting was postponed after lunch. I think we'll also have time and opportunity to focus on these officials. Nor is the head of the Security Service in charge of the Security Service. Well, I don't know, maybe because he's a doer, not a head, he thought he wasn't necessarily necessary, but at any rate, we think it's disrespect for Parliament and we'll have to. At the conclusion of this item of our meeting, I would like to say that, during the consideration of the issue of the Security and Defence Council, the mandate is given to the relevant services to work within the framework of the Constitution and the laws, and the emphasis is made on the need to strengthen their activities in the area of order during the electoral campaign, as stated in the decree. Although we have made the right decision and whether or not the campaign is or is not, Parliament is working, functioning in a state-of-the-art regime. I'd like to invite you to attend the meeting of the Supreme Council tomorrow morning.
