ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u1	I'd like to do it this way, and I'd like to do it a minute earlier. Good morning, distinguished colleagues, guests, members of the Supreme Council and media! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. Please turn on the "Race" system, register. [[10:00:00]] 431 National MP. Looks like yesterday was exactly the same number. Dear colleagues, today is the birthday of Lukyanov Vladislav Valentinovich. Let's welcome him. I think he's on a mission right now, but he might hear us. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 25 of the Rules, on Wednesday we have 30 minutes to present proposals, announcements, and messages to the people’s deputies. Please sign up. Yes, please, 30 minutes. Please, Gussarov. To whom do you give the word? Acid, please. Vasil Kiselov to the rostrum. Prepare Sergey Kurpil.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u2	Honorable National Deputies, distinguished compatriots! In any civilized country after the elections, if they are recognized as democratic and the elections in 2006 in Ukraine are recognized by the whole world as such, society should be calmed down, opposition to allow the government to work properly and constructively. When an orange coalition was formed after the election, we did not prevent it from working for a day. And it's not our fault they didn't split the wallets and run. But what has been happening in Ukraine for the past six months is that Mr. Yushchenko is the President of only one part of Ukraine, supporting those who are trying to create chaos, disorder and elections without end. That is why we demand that we publicly explain the activities of his state advisors, Stetkova and Lucenka, who drive across Ukraine and create, so-called, self - defense teams. Who and who are going to defend themselves? Is It Attacking? In our opinion, they are carrying out the orders of the President of Ukraine, preparing to go to Kiev with the aim of overthrowing the legitimately elected authority. Does the President not understand that the result of such actions is a deepening division of Ukraine?Oh, my God! The point is that the guarantor of the Constitution and its Secretariat does not adhere to the laws of Ukraine and do not wish to transfer even part of the authority, as envisaged by the reform. But you convinced everyone who organized Midan with the aim of depriving Kuchma, as you thought, of dictatorial powers. Were they not also dictatorial? Now everyone needs to realize that constitutional reform has entered into force irreversibly. And those who try to abolish it are doing anti-constitutional actions that will have to be held accountable by the law. Having examined the authority and actual actions of the Secretary of the President of Ukraine, it can be concluded that instead of pursuing human resources policy in the regions, showing citizens the example of compliance with the laws and still releasing the heads of district and district administrations who have been consulted for more than two thirds and repeatedly expressed mistrust, the President of Ukraine is ignoring the Constitution and his Secretariat is preparing a coup d'état at this time. I note that after the entry into force of the amendments to the Constitution on 1 January 2006, as a result of which the President no longer forms the Government and the central authorities, it would be logical to expect a substantial reduction in the states of the President's Secretariat and its funding. Sadly, that did not happen. On March 10, 2005, the number of states was 595. For 2007, the number of units is 596, but funding has increased by 70 million. Given the above, we ask the President of Ukraine and the Cabinet of Ministers to make proposals to reduce the number and cost of maintaining the President's Secretariat. And to the end. How could you not love your people to deliberately conduct a tariff experiment over them, as orange authorities did? And that's why a woman in white with hair hangs around Ukraine to correct her own mistakes while the government is working to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u3	Thank you. Please, Stephen Kurpil. A Turk? Please, Alexander Turchinov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u4	Dear national MPs, distinguished representatives of the media! You've all witnessed how the Anti-Crist Coalition defiedly refused to adopt a law that would protect our citizens from the government's tariff system. Yesterday, representatives of all the factions of the anti-crisis coalition, who publicly claim to be interested, refused to vote in favour of a law that would allow the problem to be resolved within a week. That's why I want to pay attention to the blasphemy and leadership of the government, and the deputies of the anti-crisis coalition, and their inability to resolve this issue. The Yulia Timoshenko faction believes that without the adoption of a law that would protect our citizens from government abuse in the tariff area, the Supreme Council will not be able to work properly. The next question that the Supreme Council can't work without is the settlement of the salaries and pensions of our citizens. The billions that are hidden in the budget, as we have proven their existence, must be directed precisely to increasing minimum wages and pensions. This is also a priority issue. Which concerns 99% of our population. This is the issue that needs to be addressed first and without resolving the issue in a normal manner the Supreme Council will not be able to work. I want to emphasize the position of the government. They are constantly trying to hide behind local councils. They are constantly trying to hide their inability, their inability to follow the decisions of local councils that have become hostages of the government’s criminal policy. I want to remind my distinguished colleagues of the anti-crisis coalition, and the Communists, and the Socialists, and the regionals, open the Constitution, take 116 articles, read them. The government is responsible for price and tariff policies, this is a direct constitutional responsibility of the government. And ignoring the Constitution, ignoring the law will lead to an increase in the socio-economic crisis, lead to your overthrow, even your inability to report to the people. I'd like to contact you, dear fellows. We don't insist on any authority, we don't insist on it. So that the laws will be passed exclusively in our writings. We insist on one thing: the Supreme Council must make a decision to stop the tariff saviour, the Supreme Council must decide to raise the minimum wage and pensions so as not to destroy our citizens. I hope that everyone who is interested in working effectively, effectively, in the Supreme Council will go to that vote. Otherwise, I can predict that in the near future, the Supreme Council will not be able to work effectively, the Supreme Council will not be able to pass any laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u5	Please, Grigorovich and Klukkowski will give Kirilenko six minutes. Please. Get ready for Vyezovsky.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u6	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today we see the ruling coalition, which means the government is blocking the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This is again because the bills introduced by the democratic opposition -- the factions "Our Ukraine" and BUT -- are not approved. Yesterday, this blockade on the part of the ruling majority was directed to ensure that the draft law and the reduction of tariffs imposed by the two factions of the democratic opposition were not approved. However, we've managed to put this issue in order of day, but the ruling coalition, which means the government, has not wanted to make a decision that will allow local councils to reduce housing and utilities tariffs and bring this issue to order once and for all. This was certainly because the faction "Our Ukraine" insisted on recognizing the government's work in the area of housing services as unsatisfactory and demanded a report from the Cabinet of Ministers on this issue. Such an approach means that all declarations about the desire to resolve this situation are no more than declarations. Today, the ruling coalition continues to block the rostrum so that the daily bills are not put into order, which foresee and ensure an increase in minimum wage, subsistence minimum and pension. President Viktor Yushchenko of Ukraine introduced a draft amending the State budget to increase minimum wages and pensions as a matter of priority. However, the ruling coalition and the government block the consideration of this bill, realizing that such an increase would go against Prime Minister Yanukovic's declarations that there is no basis for an increase in the minimum wage for today's state of affairs, but we are concerned about the declared rate of growth in industry, the gross domestic product that is being published by the government. As industrial production and GDP rises, the Yanukovich government refuses to raise both the minimum wage and the pension. We have questions about where the extra profits from economic activity go if they don't go to retirees and those who work in the budget series? We are also surprised to learn that today’s issues are being put into order by the governing coalition, which greatly exacerbate social security. For example, this week’s draft legislation on the minimum hourly wage is confirmed. This is a new social standard that has not been approved and is still in Ukraine, but without increasing the minimum monthly wage, the governing coalition wants to approve the minimum hourly wage, tying it to the current small minimum monthly wage. So once these bills have been passed by the ruling majority, the minimum hourly wage for each of our fellow countrymen is just going to be a total of 2 bracelets of 27 copies. This will be another “gift” from the government of Yanukovič to all ordinary people, especially a covert gift for those who have a part-time job, part-time employment, and in their pay virtually comes from a minimum hourly pay. It is unfortunate to us that the same bill from another faction of democratic opposition, BUT, is also blocking the ruling coalition for today's consideration. We insist that these questions now be put into the agenda. We think that other more important issues besides lowering housing and utility tariffs and increasing minimum wages and pensions, there is no such thing in Ukraine right now. We are surprised that two governments formed by President Yushchenk, the government of Timoshenko and the government of Yehanurov have managed to raise the minimum wage of 69 percent in two years, from 237 to 400 dollars. Under pressure from President Yushchenk, the current Cabinet of Ministers raised the minimum wage by only 12.5 percent. And now the ruling coalition is blocking the rostrum so as not to allow any increase in the minimum wage, which means averages across the economy, at least slightly more than the percentage budgeted. We insist once again that if the growth rate of the economy is declared, the increase in the minimum wage and pensions should be made by the government right now. If he refuses to do so, let him give this opportunity to the democratic opposition and to the president of the country. We believe that the status of the immediate and out-of-office status of the draft bill tabled by the President on the increase of minimum wages should be considered today. If there is no such agreement on the part of the governing coalition, we insist on a break, a meeting of the Conciliation Council, and a first - priority solution. In general, we are the second day, and in fact, the eighth month, we are convinced that the ruling coalition of antisocial politics, edited by the first government of Yanukovic, has made no conclusions. And antisocial bills and the unwillingness to raise wages and pensions become a tradition for the social policy of the ruling coalition. However, the opposition will not accept this, we will insist on addressing these issues, there is our consistent position, convinced that if we do not do so, we will do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u7	Princely, please prepare Mordovian, passes the word to Baranovsky. Grigorovich, please. Lilia Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u8	Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." Honorable voters, respected citizens, respected national colleagues! Of course, an objective reality is that in Kharkiv and Kharkiv, the vast majority of voters, our citizens, voted for the Party of Regions. But after the events that took place on December 16 in Kharkiv, when the mayor and the secretary of the Kharkiv area were defeated, we declare that the objective reality is that the united opposition will not allow our fellow countrymen, citizens, because it is not for you, the Party of Regions and the Anti - Crisis Coalition, to come to power. That is why I am authorized to make a statement from the faction “Our Ukraine”. On February 9, representatives of “Our Ukraine” and BUTU, Lechchenko and Kamchatny, made a draft decision to set up an investigation commission to investigate the situation of beatings on Kłoczyvska Street in Kharkiv on December 16th. It is the mass beating of the citizens who took place because of the idleness and direct involvement of the city’s leaders and the inaction of the militia. At a so - called rally, about 300 young sports figures arrived on buses under the leadership of the secretary of the Harkowsk region, formerly known as Gennady Kernes. The youths organized the beatings of the Harkians, five of whom were seriously hospitalized, and the employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs were inactive. Then, a colleague of Kernes’s, the mayor of Kharkiv Mikhailo Dobkin, joined the young. That's why, dear fellows from the Party of Regions, we need to take care of the rostrum, not here, but to go to Kharkiv to take care of the landlady's meetings and film whoever is defaming you, active authority, not tell you about it today. Don't you get it? The scale of the massacre, the insolence and impunity of criminals are unprecedented today. On December 23, the Ukrainian Security Service violated a criminal case based on a massacre and a massive disturbance in order in Kharkiv. Criminal cases have also been opened in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as in the District of Kharkiv. The Security Service has established that the Harkov massacre was pre-organized and planned, which was announced at the briefing on January 17 by the head of the BSS press service. The current criminal group, directly controlled by three or four participants, one of whom was detained in Kiev on January 10th, the other being wanted, but somehow the Henprocurement case has been suspended. The Supreme Council should give proper assessment, vote in favour of the Interim Commission of Inquiry, the faction “Our Ukraine” calls for support to the establishment of the Interim Commission of Inquiry and stresses that officials who are governed by their actions, not by law, but by gang methods, should be accountable to the law in force.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u9	Alexander Baranowski, a faction of socialists, prepare Tarana.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u10	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich! Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Dear National Deputies! Respectable compatriots! I want to stop at the initiative of the constitutional submission of National MP Mikoli Catherinechuk regarding 13 non-constitutional budget positions in 2007, which took place on February 19th at his press conference on the anti-social nature of the 2007 budget. And what I'm saying is that this is everything that's been given in the numbers that doesn't correspond to reality, and the figures that are named don't match the predicted figures in the budget. According to Catherinechuk, instead of the 3,000 870 coins that they received last year, this year they will receive only 450. Where did these numbers come from? After all, the first group’s disability received 400 dollars a one - time assistance last year, and this year it provides 450. The second group had 330 people with disabilities, and this year it was 360. The third group’s disability received 270 dollars last year, and this year it is estimated at 300. Maybe it was a dream. But when a dream enters society to earn some political dividends, it may not be a good dream. Politicians claim that the decline in living minimum took place this year. I want to point out that since January 1st, to remind you, in 2007, living minimum per person is 492 bracelets when it was 453 last year. Since April 1, 501, when last year, 465. And since October 1st, 510, when it was scheduled, 472 last year. And you know, the law that we passed this year will increase both the subsistence minimum and the minimum pensions after 1 quarter. I cannot help but overlook what was said about the Law on the Social Protection of War Children. I am the author of this law. And I want to remind you that almost all the articles of this law were suspended and not implemented last year. But article 111 of the State Budget Act 2007 provides for a pension allowance for all war children with disabilities, which is within 48 dollars per person, provided for by a debt passage, provides for a 25 per cent reduction in the payment of municipal payments. The law is still not fully operational, but the first steps are taken, and this is done by the anti-crisis coalition and the anti-crisis government. False claim regarding the cancellation of benefits for scientists and educators. This is not included in the 2007 budget. Based on the analysis of the provisions of the State Budget Act 2007 to comply with the Constitution of Ukraine, it remains unclear where the 13 constitutional provisions have been adopted. Can a respected body today, such as the Constitutional Court, be overwhelmed by similar inadequacies, to say the least. In this case, it seems to me that this politician is looking for his political niche because they are now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u11	You weren't called, you'll have a replica later. Victor Taran, please. Where is Taran, is Taran? Who? Yavorowski? Please, Volodymyr Alexanderovich. To prepare, the Cageman is handing over the Red Riding Hood.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u12	Dear voters! Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko First. I would like to welcome today our fellow countrymen with a beautiful holiday called “The Day of the Mother tongue”. The other one. I would like to thank our colleagues from the anti-crisis coalition very much for the colossal assistance they have given both to the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and to the Block of Our Ukraine, because they are in the process of blocking the rostrum. We will treat you with respect. I brought you yesterday's dreamy truth cakes, but I'll bring it today. So please block your health. Question three. Let's go down to the average level of today's Ukrainian who listens to us and thinks, "Everyday we hear a message from the government of Yanukovic about what GDP is growing, literally, in front of the eyes, no one can stop it, the standard of living of the Ukrainian people is constantly rising." So, if that is true, the simple person asks himself the basic question: “Well, what are you guys so stingy that you know about the huge price rises today for the tariffs, today the price goes up for the housing, so give this simple Ukrainian the pathetic copies that the president demands today! You're talking about the budget growing. So where will this money go that you don't want to give to people? Because instead of wasting it here and standing there, let's put these bills in place and vote, and let the government find that money, all the more what it has. The second question. I'm sick and tired of hearing about what it means to be the "Timoshenko Yulia Block" in the regions, they raised prices and things like that. Boys, our honors! So if we were in power, these MPs from the local lions would go and hands up one day to give up. But you have driven us away with our power, and you have driven us away with our money! And now it's all in place. There's an imperative mandate, and please, they come back like prisoners of war, they go back and they vote as they should. So what else do you want? Don't be mean, I'm telling you again, and don't be silly, because in Donbas, in Luhansk, prices are up two or three times, you have absolute influence there. That's why I'm talking to the representatives of the regions, guys, let's all sit down and let's work, but we're starting to work out that today we're looking at two key laws that will raise your rating, which is already going down today, and it's raising ratings in general and Ukraine. Let's vote in favour of the bill that Julia Timoshenko introduced here, let's vote in favour of that bill that raised the wages that the President has brought here, and everything will be in place. Thanks again for "Regions," stay healthy, guys!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u13	Please, Sergey Redfoot. Turn on the microphone from the spot. After him, Alekseus sends Cybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u14	Thank you. Sergei Czervonopiski, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Union of Afghan Veterans. The faction of the Socialist Party is outraged by the frank challenge of public morality demonstrated by President Viktor Yushchenko by awarding the former Attorney General of Ukraine Mikhail Potebenko by the Order of Jaroslav Wise. Mikhail Potebeko is widely known as the person who did everything to falsify and investigate the murder of Georgia Gongadze. It was very different from the fact that under his leadership, the evidence was destroyed, the witnesses were intimidated, and the investigation openly misled the entire public and the family of the deceased journalist. In the Gongadze case, unfortunately, he became, not a prosecutor, but a lawyer. To reward the ex-General as the Presidential Order when the Gongadze case has not yet been brought to justice, the end of political and human cynicism. And more. The Head of State fully devalues the status of State awards in Ukraine with his mindless unmotivated awards. This undermines the authority of both the State and authority. The President, who swore in his democracy and openness to the people of Maidan, is not tempted to explain to the public why he gives the official signs of difference to the left and right, without thinking about the hundreds and thousands of orders and medals, the names of the deserving and the people. The president humiliates those he seems to want to distinguish. Yushchenko did not show up for the award of the Afghan soldiers despite the stated participation. He made himself wait for people who had suffered severe injuries in the line of duty to the family. The faction of the Socialist Party requests the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a regulation that would prohibit the head of State from making an anecdotal practice of differences in the distribution on an excessive scale of orders and other signs of difference. Socialists require a moratorium on the remuneration of all public officials and civil servants and signs of a distinction for an unlimited period. Only those citizens who glorify our Power and perform real feats must receive the prizes! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u15	Thank you. Peter Cibenko. Please. And there'll be two minutes Bodnar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u16	The Communist faction, Cibenko, head of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons. Dear colleagues, respected citizens of Ukraine! The first thing I wanted to say from this rostrum was to express the attitude of the faction, the attitude of my colleagues towards the claim of allegedly blocking a coalition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In fact, it has a very different subtext, because my coalition colleagues, they're not blocking, they're actually unblocking the rostrum, allowing representatives of all the political forces of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to speak. Secondly, what does the so-called opposition do? I emphasize once again: the so-called opposition, because its legal status is not fixed, they haven't yet figured out which one of them is more opposing. On Monday, then, the Conciliation Council of Ukraine met for a meeting on the approval of the agenda for this week. More than half a hundred important social programs are in order each day. Regrettably, the work of the Supreme Council is somewhat paralyzed by the attempt of the so-called opposition to act on the principle: “Or what we want or nothing.” Well, of course it's not an activity approach. The big problem is that in fact the most acute social problem, the tariff problem, has now been turned into a coin exchange in the big political game. Because in fact, we are witnessing some other processes today, because today's Prime Minister of Ukraine, who will enter the history of the new Ukraine as a person who, in a few decades, raised the wages and incomes of the highest officials, was remembered as the creator of the sharpest social and other crises, which, using the service position, has written down seven and a half billion dollars from its own commercial structure, today, wearing sheep skin, tells us that it is the worst advocate of the nation. The same is true of a man who was recently vice-premier and today pours crocodile tears from this rostrum. What I'm saying is that our opponents are playing a sort of free game today. On the one hand, by means of their political supporters on the boards of different levels, they have decided to raise tariffs, and today the same political power claims to be the nation’s worst friends. And that's why they're doing everything they can to protect him. Dear colleagues, let us be consistent and honest with our constituents. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u17	Thank you. That's two more minutes. Olga Bodnar, please. Microphone, out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u18	Thank you. Men who are so afraid of women who know how to do things in this world are very surprised. I ask for their support to convey the voice of Oleg Laska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u19	Easy, microphone, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u20	Oleg Laszko, The Yulia Block of Timoshenko. Well, how lying these communists are. It stands on the highest public stand and lies suddenly, twisting the obvious facts. I want to remind you who actually raised those salaries and pensions. In October 2005, the Constitutional Court of Ukraine declared that the law was not constitutional. Introduced at the initiative of the Government of Timoshenko on salary restrictions and pensions of civil servants. And the judges of the previous court went to our Ukraine to retire. And by themselves, of course, they made the right decision. And then they started getting 20 or 30 thousand dollars of pension. And today he goes to the rostrum and lies about what Timoshenko did. The faction Timoshenko here lays bones for two days to lower the tariffs on utilities. And you're intruding on us. And instead of thinking about people, you lie about your opponents. Fear God, you ungodly people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u21	Yes, dear colleagues, we used 30 minutes to exchange thoughts. Just a few words, no one is blocking the work of the Supreme Council, no one. I thank those who help the Supreme Council to work, and the work of the Supreme Council yesterday demonstrated that the Supreme Council had fully carried out the agenda that was planned yesterday. This is what we will do today, tomorrow, and after tomorrow. So there's no blocking. People want to stand up, make up, please, sport only for their own good. Secondly, I can say that the government of the anti - crisis coalition will fulfill all its obligations and the decisions of the Supreme Council. We made a decision to review the basic social indicators of the State budget as a result of our first - quarter work, and this will be done. There's no hurry. I don't know, it's not comfortable when one force brings a project, the President as an alternative brings the same project and so on. I don't know how to vote for which of the projects is either the political power or the President, even though they're 50 percent repeating each other. Let's see how we vote when we look at the State Budget. And the third is that the honourable colleagues, let's really, really tell the truth. And the truth is that accusing the former government of Janukovic of being the most antisocial government does not correspond to reality, because this antisocial government is the one. Because this one, as you say, the antisocial government has doubled the pension, and people know about it. And what you're saying is that some governments did it later doesn't fit the reality, because by the end of 2004, most of those who are here today in Parliament are colleagues. I'm making a note of Sasu, who's being unethical at a meeting of the Supreme Council. Read the Rules, there is the Head “to sum it up”. That is why the Supreme Council of the previous call in December 2004 adopted and legally established what the previous governments were doing. And it's a good thing that they did it -- it's true. Now, dear colleagues, would you like to take a break or four minutes to announce? I'm on my way. Break. Okay. A break of 30 minutes is announced, up to 11 hours 05 minutes on demand of the BUT faction and our Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u22	Dear colleagues, I apologize, yes, we're not too late this time, but we're seven minutes late. We continue the meetings of the Supreme Council. Please, from the factions who took the break, Alexander Turchinov. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u23	Dear colleagues! You know, unfortunately, you and I lost our time, and as of yesterday, the Supreme Council could have worked in a normal way. Because the most important issues that concern our citizens are the issue of tariffs, the question of pensions and wages, that is, survival. And the Supreme Council, whatever political power may speak of, cannot escape these problems, dear fellows! That is why we now agreed to set up a working group to work on a bill related to the control of tariff policy in Ukraine. Unfortunately, we have not been able to agree on a bill that relates to changes in the budget for the increase in pensions and salaries. And our political power and the Yulia Timoshenko Block and our Ukraine, which also support the bill on budget changes, think that there are all the financial possibilities to do this not tomorrow, but today. And when that is possible, we don't understand why we should be distracted by petty legislation without solving strategic issues. So, dear fellows, we ask you not to delay your time, because until these legislative acts are adopted, until our citizens hear a clear position on their social protection, on the possibility of being able to exist, to exist normally in our country, we believe that the Supreme Council will not work effectively and nobody needs it. So we're saying that the Supreme Council will be able to get back to normal work when there's no one standing near the rostrum when all the technical institutions are going to work properly, just when these legislative acts are being considered. Thank you and we look forward to understanding our opposition.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, at the Conciliation Council, we have reached such conclusions and it is good that we are now confirmed by Alexander Valentinovich that they are ready and at the Conciliation Council that they are ready for such an algorithm. We have a few bills that relate to amendments to the laws that set prices and tariffs for housing services. There's a bill, colleagues, Dry 2197, there's still a co-author in this bill, a bill that we discussed yesterday, 3069. And that's why we asked, and we went to our colleagues. Well, light, I'll tell you what's the matter with the light. I'm talking to those who can hear me, those who are now 15 members of the B.U.T.U.S. I would like to remind these 15 participants that their actions fall under criminal responsibility, and the Supreme Council gives its consent to be brought to criminal responsibility. If they want such an agreement, they will receive it. That's the first one. The second, respectable friends from BUT, who are now in the electric shield, are less likely to listen to their leaders, because the chiefs, as always, will stay away, the chiefs, as always, wash their hands, and you may not be quite sweet. Don't do such petty things for which you have to take criminal responsibility, it's the Supreme Council premises and a strategic object, and I wouldn't recommend you to joke. So we agreed that there would be a working group, a working group of interested parties that, during today's generalized joint bill on price and tariff changes, and we'll try, if we agree, of course tomorrow we could look at it. If there are no comments and there will be, and we will certainly consult with the government, all calculations will be made, and we will be able to answer what is needed, and we will be able to do so tomorrow as a whole. The second is about changes to the State Budget Act. I am reminded again and today I was told that, when opening the Cabinet of Ministers meetings, the Prime Minister once again said that the Government would necessarily comply with the Supreme Council Regulation on the review of the basic social parameters of the State budget. Our opposition colleagues demand that a specific date be given when it will be. So we agreed, because the Cabinet of Ministers is now meeting, I'm going to consult with the Cabinet of Ministers about the end of the session. And if not today, I will surely inform you tomorrow when the Cabinet of Ministers changes the State Budget Act and we, together with other legislative initiatives, will consider these changes. So this is the algorithm for our further work. And I would suggest that I now address Jaroslav Suhogo again, and the representatives of the Yulia Timoshenko Block, sit down now and work on the agreed bill. And we're going to continue our work until 14 hours, and we're going to look at the bills that we have today. Bill 0052 is under consideration. The draft Act on the Ratification of the Protocol on Biodiversity and the Black Sea Landscapes to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea against Pollution will be reported by the First Deputy Minister of Environmental Protection Kurulenko Svetoslav Sergiyyovich. Get ready for the Shibka, please. They don't work cards, don't work, we'll talk, we'll vote when they work, I don't see any problem. Please. How much do you need, three minutes? Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u25	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! Since 1994, Ukraine has been a party to the Black Sea Convention against Pollution, ratified by the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order on February 4, 1994. The Convention is an international instrument that sets out a framework for common regional principles on the protection, restoration and use of the natural resources of the Black Sea. The purpose of the proposed bill is to ratify one of the protocols to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea from Pollution, the Protocol on the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Black Sea Landscapes. The protocol is aimed at ensuring coordination of efforts at an international level with regard to the protection of the restoration and insufferable use of bio. the landscape diversity of the Black Sea, the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage of the Black Sea countries. The protocol was approved by all the Black Sea countries and signed by Ukraine on June 14, 2002, in Sofia at a conference of ministers around the Black Sea region, including Ukraine. The ratification of the protocol will be a legitimate and consistent step towards fulfilling Ukraine’s international obligations under the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea against Pollution and will testify to Ukraine’s desire to participate actively in the preservation of the natural and cultural heritage of the Black Sea. People's deputies would like to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The "Council" system doesn't work and it's turned off by those who are raising their hands right now because I've already talked about it. Please, can I ask you a question? Put your hands up, I'll try to give it a minute. It's those who pick up who doesn't want to work. Who else? I can see two hands. Who else? Please, three. I'm only going to give a chance to those factions that didn't break into the power grid. Please, Gigorovitch, Knyazevitch and Aleksandrovska. But you don't have the ability, so please go to the microphone stand. And you stand by, and then you'll answer. Please, Grigorovitch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u27	Adam Ivanovich!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u28	Alexandrovska, I didn't give you my word. Grigorovich. You'll get it, but I said what's the order. Please, Grigorovich, Knyazevich, then Aleksandrovska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u29	Good afternoon! Lilia Grigorovich, "Our Ukraine." I would like to thank the report presented to our distinguished reporter, but I would like to ask a question that is certainly in line with the commitments of Ukraine to ratify such an important convention. Please tell me how about the biodiversity and landscape of the Black Sea, the construction of this Danube Channel, the Danube Canal, which has certainly disrupted both biodiversity and landscape, has caused great damage to Ukraine's budget, because it is essentially not functional. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u30	Thank you for asking. The Black Sea Danube Canal is not affected by the pollution of the Black Sea. And the monitoring that our ministry and the Ministry of Transport are doing shows that there is no issue of major pollution. Rather, it is a political issue. Well, you can look at it in economic terms, there are no environmental issues here, as far as the Black Sea is concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u31	Please, Knyazevich. Knazevitch, please come to the microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u32	Our faction will support the protocol's stated ratification, but I have a question like that. As we know, the largest polluter of the Black Sea equator is the Black Sea fleet of the Russian Federation. Do you not think that ratification will be an additional argument by Ukraine in favour of the necessity of withdrawing the Black Sea fleet from Crimea in 2017? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u33	We don't think so because Russia is a country that has ratified everything -- both the convention and the protocols, it's in a number of six countries that work under this convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u34	Please, Alexandrovska Alla.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u35	I have a very simple question. The Black Sea is a zone that does not divide but unites many countries. And I know the state of water in the Black Sea and the state of the biosphere is a very important factor both for Europe and for Asia, and even for Africa. Please tell me if this is the unifying Convention. I mean, other countries that are borderline, do they support the Convention? Will that be a good thing in our international relations?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u36	Thank you for asking. Indeed, this Convention is a positive one, and it unites those countries and not only those of the Black Sea Basin, so that it is only a positive thing to combine our efforts to preserve the natural world.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u37	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Dear colleagues! Pay attention! Don't worry about the vote. First, I'll read you the corresponding article of the Rules. Chapter 7. Article 37. Species and methods of voting. On page 36, it reads: “The open ballot shall be carried out by raising the hand in the absence of a technical voting capability through an electronic system”. I mean, we're going to have to and we're going to vote by raising a hand. And we'll vote and we'll make a decision. Don't worry! This is one moment. One second. I'm going to remind those who are cutting off the glove box right now that they were running to the Ukrainian House in 2000 and decided that we're talking for weeks and we're voting once a week. I mean, we can vote when the "Council" system works. I can't see the problem. The session will continue today and we will discuss the matter. Please, Vitaly Shibko. Or is it from the committee? And there will be even discussion. Please, Vitaly Yakovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u38	Quickly, the Committee on Foreign Affairs. As a professional committee in these circumstances, I just want to point out that the committee will fully support the need for ratification of this Convention. Perhaps there will be some questions, and they will be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u39	Any questions? None. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Yeah, one of them signed up. Who else wants to share in the discussion? None. Yes, two. So, please, Bespallian. And then there's Yuri Baldirev. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u40	Boris Bespalij, “Our Ukraine”. Well, basically this document, I don't think there's going to be much controversy here. And our faction also supports it, although a colleague of Knyazevitch had a very serious point when he said that we need to further study the circumstances that pollute the really Black Sea fleet and not allow it. But I don't think the chairman was right when he offered to vote with his hands. We remember very well how the constitutional reform was voted in 2003 and nothing came out of it. Although not to repeat such a disgraceful and very bad example, I think we do not have to laugh again, at least the whole of Ukraine, because we, well, if they don't see it, they hear it and we go to that vote. And since the chairman has not been able to provide normal voting conditions, I think we should now stop sitting until normal conditions are in place, because in such conditions, I think Parliament cannot and should not work. And this document, if ratified under such conditions, will also cast doubt on him, like all the following documents. Because we've all seen hand voting, there, two hands raised, captured, then declared 490 votes, something like that, so let's do it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u41	Thank you. Boris Jakovic, thank you for the tip. The chairman shall ensure that the voting conditions are met. First. Once again, we will use the Rules and vote. The other one. I'm going to the Regulatory Committee to deal with this situation. And thirdly, I'm assigning a mandate to the Supreme Council's Office, the State Security Service, to call the Attorney-General's Office now, to record the violations that are, and to file for consideration by the Supreme Council, to bring to justice those national deputies who are subject to criminal proceedings. And we'll give that permission.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u42	Yes, please, Yuri Baldwin, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u43	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues. I think that we must now fully consolidate our efforts in voting on this bill. Because the issue of defending Ukraine's national interests in the Black Sea is a matter of survival. In no way can we address the political forces that are, in fact, foreign agents and try to destroy our economic assets in connection with the construction of the Danube-Black Sea Canal. There is another topic behind this topic, the topic of gas deposits on the Black Sea shelf. I therefore hope that now we will all show full consolidation, all political forces in the vote on this issue. He's not, he's, he's not just gonna vote on bio-resources. It will be a vote to consolidate the political efforts of all our factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u44	Yes, please, now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u45	Honourable colleagues, Deputy Kolesnichenko, faction of the Party of the Regions, town of Sevastopol. Of course, the convention we are talking about today requires that we sign it and, of course, ratify it because it is very positive for Ukraine. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that even in this important document, representatives of the so-called opposition are trying to speculate on issues in which they do not understand. Talks about the Black Sea fleet causing tremendous damage are conversations that do not stand for eaten eggs. I represent Sevastopol, one thing I can say is that the Black Sea fleet today gives 20% of the city's budget, 21,000 jobs. If these so-called councillors want to destroy jobs, please give $1.5 billion to create new jobs in Sevastopol. By standards, job creation costs between $50,000 and $100,000. So please think of those who live in the city of Sevastopol, Crimea, and Ukraine before slapping without understanding the subject. Because your policy today reminds us of the policy of a “breathing partner” who, five to seven years ago, was here in favor of ecology and said that “and the trees have dried up, and the rivers have dried up, and there is nowhere to “known man” to hang or drown”. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u46	Katerina Samuelk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u47	Catherine Samuelk, faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine Those people who were absolutely against this bill, they don't own the subject, they know what they're talking about, and they're putting even a question that's very important to our interstate relations into political affairs. Well, what's with the Black Sea fleet? Well, what's with the Black Sea fleet? Here we are. A colleague standing next to me came back from the Slovak Republic literally two days ago. And we met parliamentarians from the Black Sea States, who, by the way, gave their assessment of the Danube Black Sea channel a completely different one than the first speaker. And so I think that this bill needs to be ratified, all the more so that it reconciles the position between the states among all. Moreover, this includes financial support. And it's really going to help get those areas that are next to it to have a new development. I think that in today's so-called “democratic opposition” because democratic opposition would not rule out light, it would have the main weapon — truth and justice. Their truth and justice were evaluated in the March elections last year. And that's why you have to sit there and keep quiet and not let your President down, because you've done everything you can to get him to be in opposition to the state of Ukraine, to the Ukrainian people, and to stabilize in our country. So I propose to everyone, Adam Ivanovich, there will be no problem in voting for the ratification of this document, and the people of Ukraine will know that the democratic opposition is doing everything possible to destabilize the situation in Ukraine. This is how they hurt each and every one of you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u48	Thank you. Question completed. Question completed. Let's be clear. I would ask, if there is a desire to count the raised arms in opposition, and on the basis of article 37 of the Rules, I would stress it once again, once again, by article 37 of the Rules, which states that open voting takes place by way of raising my hand in the absence of an electronic voting capability. Who is in favour of ratifying the Protocol on the Conservation of Biodiversity and the Black Sea Landscapes to the Convention on the Protection of the Black Sea against Pollution, Registration No. 0052, please raise your hands. Yes, who wants to count the votes? Yes, please hang up. Where is Jaroslav Suhi? Ah, Jaroslav Suhi is working. So we're going to count our respectable colleagues, our respectable colleagues, and our factions. Dear colleagues, who are against the law? Who's against it? One Taran against. Yeah, who's holding up? One's holding up. So if we registered 431 national deputies, 431 national deputies, that means 429 voted in favour, 1 against, one abstained. But in order for us to be, secure ourselves, I repeat, when the "Council" system works, we will go back to voting on this bill. Here we are going to discuss the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on economic, industrial and technical cooperation. Registration number 0056. Reported to the First Deputy Minister of Economy, Maksut Anatoly Arkadyovich. Get ready for Platoon. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u49	Dear Chief! Dear National Deputies! With the aim of broadening the relationship between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic and developing a bilateral contractual legal base in the field of economic cooperation following the entry of the Slovak Republic into the European Union on 24 November 2005, the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Economic, Industrial and Technological Cooperation was signed in Bratislava on 24 November 2005. The signing of the said agreement is prompted by the need to bring the bilateral contractual framework into new conditions of cooperation and the requirements of the EU. The adoption of the draft law will create the conditions for maintaining a contractual and legal base in the area of bilateral trade and economic cooperation, which will contribute to the further development of economic relations between the two States, will provide the necessary conditions for bilateral economic cooperation. The treaty agreement encourages contacts between the business circles of their countries, promotes small and medium-sized enterprises, international exhibitions, and fairs. The agreement strengthens the desire of the contractual parties to develop, strengthen and diversify trade and economic cooperation on a mutually beneficial basis in all areas of common interest. In order to carry out these tasks, a mixed Commission of Economic and Industrial Affairs, Scientific and Technical Cooperation, composed of representatives of competent government agencies, organizations, business structures, is being created. The main tasks of the said Mixed Commission are to discuss the Economic Cooperation Programme, which is of mutual interest, to facilitate the creation of appropriate credit conditions and to ensure the financing of economic, industrial, scientific and technical cooperation and a number of other tasks set out in the text of the Agreement. The implementation of the said agreement will contribute to the development of bilateral relations in the priority areas and the revitalization of the business circles of both countries, by carrying out the tasks assigned to the mixed commission identified by the mixed commission. It will also contribute to the improvement of mutually beneficial trade and economic cooperation between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic at a new stage of cooperation, namely after the acquisition by the Slovak Republic of EU membership. Thank you for your attention. I would like to point out that the issue is supported by the Economic Policy Committee. Any comments, no objections were made.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u50	Thank you, Anatoly Arkadyovich. The committee will say for itself, you said for yourself. Yeah, any questions? No, the future will not receive a word today. I'm sorry, it's a reception against the wreckage. Yes, please, who else wants to ask questions other than BUTT? “Our Ukraine” will receive through one. No questions? I won't. Have a seat, please. I would then like to invite Alexia Vitaliovich Plonikov of the Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u51	The President-in-Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of Economic Policy at its meeting on 13 February reviewed the draft Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine and the Government of the Slovak Republic on Economic and Technological Cooperation. The meeting noted that this was a very important agreement that would contribute to the development of the bilateral relations between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic in the economic, scientific and technical spheres of cooperation envisaged by this agreement. Ratification of this agreement will contribute to the deepening of relations between Ukraine and the Slovak Republic, both in these directions and in general at the bilateral inter-State level. Taking into account the positive conclusion and consideration of the committee’s deliberations, the High Council Committee proposes to support the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u52	Thank you. Any questions? None. Have a seat. Who wants to share in the discussion? No, it's not. We vote legitimately, don't say it's not legitimate. Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Samolik, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u53	We were recently in the Slovak Republic with two representatives of BUTU, and I think today the Embassy of this country is hearing that we are considering such an important document. I don't think they're happy that this document isn't going to be voted out today. Because when we're in the Slovak Republic, I'm stressing, just with the representatives of the BUTU faction, that we're confident that this country is looking forward to working with us in scientific, economic and humanitarian terms. What is more, we met in the Parliament of the Slovak Republic at the Committee on Science and Education and Youth Policy and we have indeed made a number of proposals on our work together and on speeding up the ratification of our agreements. So I don't know who the coalitions or our international relations are doing this kind of service today, the opposition is not taking part in the vote, and by blocking the access of electricity to the Ukrainian session hall, I think we should think about it. If you feel that you are patriots of Ukraine, you should not use such examples as to treat interstate relations. What's more, we know that there are so many of our fellow Ukrainians in the Slovak Republic who are really looking forward to working together. Which, in fact, are trying to do everything to bring our economic relationship closer to us, our relationship in the science and technology sphere. And so the faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, and I'm more than sure that the anti-crisis coalition will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. And it will definitely work for us. As for the state approach to resolving the issue, let the people of Ukraine, our voters know, do everything they can today to paralyze our nation’s activities. But above all, you will feel these actions, so-called, opposition, upon yourself, venerable fellow countrymen. I invite everyone to vote in favour of the ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u54	Please, Stepan Bulba, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u55	I'm addressing the opposition first of all. I'm ashamed of what you're doing. Of course, you can understand that, to some extent, you are protected by the mandate of a deputy, you can have this group of extremists or radicals, or God knows what you call paralyzing the work of an authority. You showed it how you do it at the level of the city council is Kyivsky. Now you're transferring these attempts to the higher legislature. I think Ukraine, the people should know their heroes. Yesterday, the mountain gave birth to a mouse in Hmelnick. Well, what a mountain, yes, of course, and the mouse appeared. But 2.5 times you've raised tariffs there, now you've reduced it by 15 percent and you're thinking of it as a victory, and you're showing, you're showing, you're talking about some victory and some struggle for the good of the people. People are good, come on. You realize that every day the work of the coalition government reduces your chances of gaining power, which you have lost for nothing, you have lost for nothing. I repeat, I am ashamed of you, because we are finally considering an extremely important issue that concerns the authority of Ukraine not even in Europe, in the international environment. How can you rule a nation if we are unable to control our emotions? You have all the rights and opportunities and to speak and vote, and to do everything within the limits of the law, within the limits of the Rules of the Supreme Council. I refer to the leadership of the Supreme Council, to all the people's deputies, let's give a principled assessment of what is happening today in the Supreme Council. And let's let people understand that those who are incapable of managing are making it difficult for them to work properly and create chaos. There will be no chaos, and there will be no disorder! And the spring will come, but not thanks to you, but the spring will come, for this is the course of nature; so the laws of nature have determined, and men will plow and sow and reap, but not because of you. Shame on you, distinguished representatives of the opposition! Of course, we will vote in favour of this agreement because it is in the interests of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u56	Thank you. Question completed. We will be determined when we have the technical capabilities to do so. So let's move on to a simplified procedure. But we need to make a decision. I'm asking you to raise your hands, who is it that the following questions that we have listed below are to be followed by a reduced procedure? Please raise your hands. Yes, please, let it go. A draft Law on the characteristics of transmission in concessions of water and water supplies held in municipal property is under consideration. Bill 2750 registration number. He will report to the first deputy head of the Committee on Construction, Urban and Housing, Bertash Vasil Mikhailovich. Please, 10 minutes, because we don't know if the procedure is shortened or not. And 2751, let's do two, please. How long do you need? Okay, two 10 minutes. Please. 2750 and 2751.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u57	Dear Chairman! Dear National Deputies! As one of the authors, I present draft laws on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of water and water supplies held in municipal property and on the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of heat supplies held in municipal property, which are considered by the professional committee and are recommended to be based on further development into second reading and taking into account legislators, including the comments of the Chief Scientific and Scientific Administration. Laws aimed at implementing a state-wide housing and utility reform programme, using effective forms of farming through the inclusion of additional private sector funds. They provide for a partnership of economic operators on a concessional basis that will enable investment, experience, knowledge, and know - how. Heat, water and water supply systems are strategic targets that perform their functions, including in emergency situations, ensure the health of the nation, the development of the national economy, and social relations. In this regard, these bills define the characteristics of transferring such objects into concessions with a view to avoiding technological catastrophes, excluding the possibility of intrusion into the management of random entrepreneurial structures. On the basis of the concession contract, the concessionaire’s responsibility is to make the investments necessary to ensure the reliable and efficient functioning of the infrastructure. Conducting reconstruction and modernization at his expense and risk with a view to creating conditions for constantly increasing quality and reducing cost and services. The concessionaire is given the right to own and use municipal property, heat, water, and water supplies, but under the control of the public and the state. The proposed laws are not distributed to the utilities of the thermal facilities that were supplied in concession until this law becomes effective. There are no water and water supplies in the concession today. These bills are designed for the purpose of investing in the economy of Ukraine, because the critical situation of housing and utility enterprises, the wear-down of the core funds, which are 60 percent, only requires 50 billion dollars of capital to be reconstructed. Under such circumstances, concession is the most effective form of farming in this field. Nearly three and a half thousand companies operate in the field of municipal heating, one third of them are potential bankruptcys that require effective management. Forty companies are leased between 20 and 49 years of age. In the area of centralized water supply and water supply, compared with the 2004 figures, the length of emergency and well watersheds increased by seven percent, street networks by nine percent, and the length of emergency collectors increased by four percent, and street networks by nine percent. The municipal infrastructure has been worn out by more than 60 percent, resulting in an almost fivefold increase in the number of accidents in the past 10 years. There are 33 percent of the water supply networks, 29 percent of the water supply, almost 18 percent of the heat supply, and 37 percent of the heat supply boilers. And that's why there are these problems today, as you can see. One of the conditions for implementing delegated management schemes in the field of water, sanitation and rental and concession contracts should be the availability of business plans for strategic enterprise development. Today, only 5% of water canals have a complex investment program. Experts estimate that the need for investment to restore the modernization of the core funds in the field is over 34 billion dollars. In addition, housing and utilities hold third place after the metallurgical and chemical industries in terms of electricity consumption and, first, heat consumption. Experts estimate that up to 40% of the energy resources are consumed, and a large part of them are lost because of the wearout of the core funds. As a result of the loss of heat and water, water consumption and heat levels are 2-3 times higher in European countries. Every year, 20% of the heat produced is lost. The most effective is the water supply and sewerage sector, where almost half of the energy and natural resources are lost. In most areas, water loss in networks accounts for 40 to 60 percent of almost all water and sanitation enterprises, excluding the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, Donetské, Lugansk, Lviv, Rivne and Kyiv. Water and energy audits are not carried out, or they are carried out at even a slow pace. According to the Ministry of Emergency Situations, as a result of the extremely poor technical condition of water supply and water supply facilities, there were 28 accidents in life - support systems during 2005, and the number increased by 3.5 times compared to the previous year. The largest number of accidents has been reported in Dnipropetrovsk, Vinnitsk, Lviv, Mikolayivsk, Lugansk, and the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. All the above circumstances call for the adoption of bills that, on the one hand, reinforce the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of thermal supplies and water supply facilities, strengthen the concessionaire’s requirements for the management of property as a service, and on the other hand protect the interests of the territorial community that owns the property provided for the concession. Please support the decision of the profiling committee and adopt the bills in the first reading as a basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u58	Thank you, Vasil Mikhailovich. I continue to hold a meeting to conclude this consideration. Is there a question for the reporter? I don't see my hands up. Yes, have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Alexandrovska – one, Kucherenko – two, Bondarczuk – three. No, one of the factions. You already have Kozachenko. Huh? There's a puppy. Yes. So three factions came forward. Please, Alexy Kucherenko, please. After him Alexander's, then John Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u59	Dear Chief, distinguished national MPs! We understand that it is very difficult to work under such frontal conditions, but I think it is still a very important law. That is why I am grateful for the opportunity to speak up and express the faction. Well, first of all, I want to say right away that we've decided to support this law in the first reading, without prejudice to the fact that it seems to have enough flaws, but I think on the second reading we're going to correct them with the authors, along with all of you. But, on the other hand, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, unfortunately, yesterday, thanks to the efforts of our colleagues, first of all, from the Party of Regions and Party and the faction of Socialists, the amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on State and Municipal Property Rental and Pro concession have failed. What are we talking about? Because yesterday we failed to vote on these two laws, we actually opened the door to actually get in 2-3 months all the communities throughout Ukraine, it's about Kiev, about Dnipropetrovsk, about Kharkiv, about Donetsk, about Lugansk, so they can get rid of their water- and heat-generating businesses. Because to date, the lease arrangements, the concessions, for example the scheme that was implemented in Odessa in 2003, have been followed by a legal mechanism to remove these life-supporting enterprises. That is why today we will uphold this law in the first reading and insist on its adoption as quickly as possible, for this law, only the adoption of this law, can really limit the management of those life - sustaining enterprises that are said to be in force. I also want to draw your attention to another fact. That's what my colleagues, our colleagues, our national deputies, and, unfortunately, not the Ministry of Housing, have developed. Yesterday we witnessed a speech by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Housing and Utilities, who told us about the poor state of the housing government's acceptance of 8 billion debts. I can tell you that these debts were both in 2003 and 2004 and the government of Timoshenko accepted with the same debts. So let us be objective. The problem is not that today we are talking about raising tariffs, but there are objective reasons. The problem is that in 7 months of this government's work, only 1 bill was passed with us, which consisted of one line of restructuring of corporate debt. The problem is, in seven months, we haven't heard anything from you, no new concept of reform, no concept of regulation. And it is in this legislative vacuum that all the forces of the local level, of the national level, are being pushed into today, and that's why we're in a wedge with you today. That's the problem. That's why we want the government to work more and more professionally to create a legislative field. We hope that tomorrow, at a college meeting, we will announce the creation of a ministry that will be created by the Minister of Housing and Utilities, and we are ready to work with the government in a constructive way to improve the legislative field. Once again, "Our Ukraine" will support this law in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u60	Thank you. Alla Alexandrovska, the Communist faction, behind her is Bondarczuk. Please take a look, I'm looking at the clock, but you've got to be on your way for three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u61	Dear colleagues! I would like to point out that this bill and its treatment are very well demonstrated by the double factions of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc. Why? The concession for heating, water and water supply inevitably leads to an increase in tariffs. And today, the white smoker is driving through Ukraine and creating a visible struggle for the people of Ukraine, but she and her faction are introducing a bill, among the authors are representatives of the faction and support, as Kucherenko has just said, the bill. I want to tell you what the point of the concession is, I already talked about it yesterday. The one who takes the heat or water into the concession, he invests his money and he has to return it. Where's he gonna get that money? Only through the sale of its services, i.e. by heat, by water supply to the population or by sewerage. Who's gonna pay him that profit? Only the population. There are still doubles in the fact that the city authorities will make money in this case because the concession is paid for. This law explicitly states that the tariff will be invested in investments. That is, today we Communists support the Government, which directly allocates capital investments to modernize and repair heat and utilities. In this law, modernization and major repairs are made on tariffs. How Block Timoshenko, who is supposed to fight for the people of Ukraine, supports such a vile norm, I would like you to answer that. I would like to say more, under this law both credits and interest on credit are paid. Why are you, white and smokey, undressing the people of Ukraine, mocking them, and actually hanging a paw on their ears? I want to say that the Communist faction has opposed concessions, concessions, housing and utilities, and we will stand in this position. And the defendant, Yulia Timoshenko, in two faces, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u62	Ivan Bondarczuk, Socialist faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u63	Dear colleagues, our faction doubts the appropriateness of adopting this law so far, but unfortunately, there are no authors here who can answer in detail the questions that may arise in connection with the adoption or voting of this law. So we will be determined later when we can communicate with the authors of this bill. Because, in principle, it's a good thing when the Supreme Council is trying to get more involved in issues that regulate or regulate the activities of housing and utilities, which today is essentially in a catastrophic state. And all you have to do is support the efforts of the coalition government, which is trying to do something concrete in terms of reforming the LHC. But in the second part of my speech, I would like to say the following, a formal reason for a group of our fellow extremists to do, in fact, banditry for the capture of electrical shields and actions that fall within the jurisdiction of the Criminal Code, is as if the MPs were refusing to consider most of the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine. But I would like to say how the head of the Committee of the Supreme Council on Social Policy and Labour is. Since our committee has been designated chief in the consideration of this bill, we will certainly consider it both as a matter of priority and as an urgent matter, taking into account the constitutional rights and powers of the Head of State. However, we will not deviate from the Rules in the sense that until we reach the conclusions of the expert conclusions, the conclusions of the relevant ministries and the vendettas, we will not do so. Hence, the law will be considered necessarily as urgent and priority. I would like to say another thing about, I looked at the bill introduced, I read the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine, and I saw that there was actually a coincidence of those parameters for minimum wage.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u64	Ivan Mikolaiovich, that's no longer the subject. It was about the electric shield because it's energy, and it's not a concession anymore, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u65	I'll finish my opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u66	Okay, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u67	I want to say that there are also differences in the bill tabled by the President of Ukraine and in the ones approved by the State Budget Act that start only on December 1st and apply to 10 dollars. So it's a storm in a glass of water and it's just an attempt to tear down the work of the Supreme Council. Because we can think about it 20 times more and accept it, and agree that it is already, in fact, enshrined in the State Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u68	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Discussion of draft laws Nos. 2750 and 2751 “On the characteristics of the transfer to the concession of water and water supplies and heat supplies in municipal property” has been completed. We will make decisions when there are technical possibilities. A break of 12,40 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u69	Dear colleagues! We'll continue our meeting. Right now, there may be 120 in the hall, only 120 deputies. This is what I read, our media colleagues said that we were there before the system was shut down, only 120, and I suddenly put it to a vote. Dear colleagues! Everything was in accordance with the Rules, please do not cross. From what you use in front of some political forces or other, it's your right, but at least you blush when you're writing a lie. That's one thing. And the others. I said no decision was made. The decision will be taken when the “Council” system works. Either listen carefully, or do not write, excuse me, something you should not write, for it does not fit the reality. But let it be on your conscience, for two pairs of boots. We will continue our consideration. We are now considering a draft Act amending some legislation in Ukraine. [[on the improvement of Ukrainian legislation on family violence]] Katerina Lewchenko's project, registration number 2539. Please, is it? Please. Catherine Borisovno, how much time do you need? Four? Okay, please, four minutes. Please. Catherine Borisovno, I'm sorry. To those who shout, I explain, neither in the Constitution nor in the Rules, how many MPs should be present for the Supreme Council to meet. There is only one rule that a decision is made by at least 226 national deputies. And as far as you're concerned, it's not the Constitution that interests you. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u70	Dear colleagues! First of all, the esteemed radio listeners, for today you are more than we are in the hall! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the discussion will be an important bill to strengthen the responsibility for committing domestic violence and to amend the Ukrainian Law on Prevention of Domestic Violence, as well as the Code of Administrative Violations. According to the Ministry of Internal Affairs, more than 85,000 are in preventive accounting today. Those who committed domestic violence. In 2006 alone, 76,000 were raised. official warnings against domestic violence. Listen, if you talk to me next to me, then I'll complain about you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u71	And you'll do the right thing. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interfere with a fine woman's reporting. What is more, domestic violence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u72	Nearly 90 grand has been put together. the protocols. I want to point out that in 80 percent of cases it is men who become the subject of violence. Thus, six thousand protective clauses were written last year. The draft law under consideration received positive approval from the Committee on Law Enforcement, Youth Policy, Family, Sport and Tourism, and was generally created with experts from the Department of Public Security of the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Ukraine, the Ministry of the Ukraine in family affairs, youth, sport, public organizations, including the Lastrada-Ukraine Centre, and held public discussions in nearly half of Ukraine's cities. Most of its proposed changes are long overdue. This is a refusal to sanction such as a fine that commands the family, not a rapist, but a removal of article 11 on the official warning of the inadmissibility of ecstatic conduct, the imposition of administrative arrests as sanctions for the cessation of violence, thus eliminating the abuser from the family, not the victim. Such changes were proposed by both domestic scientists and experts from international organizations that analysed legislation in this area. The bill is a novelty in the prevention of domestic violence, not only of victims but also of perpetrators of violence, of corrective action. This approach is acknowledged to be effective in many countries in Europe, which have made some progress in combating this phenomenon. In order to implement such correctional programs, it is proposed that crisis centres be reoriented from work only with victims to work with families in general, which is also reflected in the bill. To do this, we need to work together with the Ministry of Family, Youth, and Sports before the second reading of such programs. In general, the bill corresponds to the spirit of international instruments in the area of human rights assumed by Ukraine. The proposed changes are being followed up with the recommendations of Parliamentary hearings on the state of gender-based violence in Ukraine, which took place in November 2006 with the documents of the Council of Europe, which declared this year the Year of Combating Violence. So given the urgency of this problem, the urgent need to improve legislation in this area, I ask you to adopt this law as a basis by voting on it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u73	Thank you. Any questions? No, we did not vote in favour of the reduced procedure, unfortunately, so there is a question. It might be easy to ask if they did not commit acts that did not beautify MPs. Yeah, so there's no questions. Thank you. Have a seat, please. You'll whisper later, yes. Have a seat, please. From the Committee of Borsztewski Viktor Valentinovich, Secretary of the Committee on Law Enforcement. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u74	The bill proposes to amend the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Violations to complement the Code with administrative charges in the form of an obligation to undergo treatment against alcoholism, to increase the responsibility for domestic violence, or to prevent the imposition of a three - day fine. It is also suggested that changes be made to the warning of domestic violence, which is intended to provide shelters for victims of this violence, as well as corrective work with those who are prone to domestic violence. The committee reviewed the project and invites the Supreme Council to accept it in its first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u75	Thank you. The question is to the committee representative. None. Yes, please, who wants to speak? Have a seat, please. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Please, Hennady Josephovich of “Our Ukraine”. No, no, Easy has no words. Please, three minutes, Hennaday Josephovich. Please. Please, Hennaday Josephovich, three minutes. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u76	Respectful domination, respected colleagues, Ukraine can be proud that we have adopted two very important laws in recent years: gender equality between men and women and the prevention of domestic violence. I was in December-month at the International Conference convened by the Inter-Parliamentary Alliance in Geneva. There was a fairly representative conference, more than half a hundred states were in Parliament, more loyally represented. And I'll tell you, I've been proud to talk about these laws that have been passed by Ukraine. Not many nations of so - called advanced democracy can boast of such bills. Here, Mrs Sameilik, she has personally made a great deal of contributions, she has done so that the Gender Equality Act can be adopted. We are ashamed of you and of you, first of all, of the Party of the Regions, for rejecting the bill for the introduction of one post to five on the electoral lists. How can this be done? You know, it's a disgrace to all of us with you. I will urge all your wives to announce a Sunday post in bed, there, and so forth. Next. Respectful association, we have a problem with the Law on the Prevention of Domestic Violence. Two problems: The first is that when a husband beats a wife or a child, the family does not want to take out the garbage of their family, they do not want to inform the law enforcement authorities. Second, when informed by law enforcement authorities, they do not want to register these facts of domestic violence because it makes statistics worse. That's what we need to fight, fight, and fight. And this law that Catherine Borissovna is proposing is a good law. Here we always had Cherniewecki from the rostrum and said: “This is a good law, it must be supported.” He needs to work on the bill. But you have to put new ideas into this bill. Well. For example, juvenile justice, today we have no justice to protect children, children. No, we need juvenile justice. The "Our Ukraine" faction supports this bill, and we need to work on it. With the Ministry of Family Affairs and the young, they seem to favor the bill. We need to work on him. I thank you for your word and thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u77	Thank you. Please, Malishev. Malešev Vladimir, then Malinowski. The BUT faction won't have a word today. Why? On the grounds that you, your colleagues, are committing a crime now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u78	You're supposed to take my word for it. I'm nobody. About the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u79	Malishev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u80	Wait, I didn't turn it off.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u81	Yes, please speak. You're not him.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u82	You have no right to deprive us of words.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u83	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u84	Excuse me, excuse me. I'll give Lace a word when he stays with the "Council" system. I'll give each one of you a word, or you won't get the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u85	Dear colleagues, well, give me your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u86	Speak, The Country Hears You
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u87	Democrats, give me your word!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u88	Thank God! Dear colleagues! The purpose of the bill is to improve Ukraine’s current legislation on the prevention of domestic violence. In view of the fact that domestic violence in most cases is committed in an alcoholic state, changes to the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences are needed in the application of additional administrative penalties in the form of an obligation to receive treatment for alcoholism. Accepting the proposed changes to articles 262 and 263 of the Ukrainian Code will have a positive effect on the prevention of wrongdoing committed in the family environment. The law is also proposed to complement new terms such as correctional work and correction programs, shelter for victims of domestic violence. At present, there are specialized institutions for victims of domestic violence, which include crisis centres and centres for medical and social rehabilitation. Thus, work is done exclusively with those who have suffered from domestic violence, but there is no institution to deal with a person who has committed domestic violence in order to change his or her behavior and form a nonviolent pattern of conduct. Ukraine’s Law on “Prevention of Domestic Violence ” works when there are no signs of crime. All proposed changes will contribute to improving the protection of Ukrainian citizens from violence. Therefore, the bill is socially important and needs to be supported in the first reading. Some provisions of the bill require editorial changes and clarifications that can be made in preparation for the second reading. Thank you. Now here's my comment. I'm Mr. Luzko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u89	Baby!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u90	It's easy for all this company: if you love people so much, let's work. I'm ashamed of you!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u91	There was opposition. He was the first to act today from opposition. Malinowski, please. I was performing Vudovenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u92	What about the replica?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u93	You're a widower. You have a replica, too. Sign up. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ Dear colleagues, I don't know if the voters are listening to us today, but I want to tell you, as a person who worked in the educational field, in the PTU system, in schools, I know the problem of domestic violence from the inside. Thank God we have such a law, but it really needs to be complemented, and today Catherine Borissovna is introducing it and needs to be supported. The socialists are fully supportive and recommending it. in the first reading. I would also like to say that today, imposing a fine on a rapist is actually a violation of the family’s interests. That's why wives, if they suffer, or children, that's their material problem. So it's suggested that you put this administrative board up to 3 days. That's right. Domestic violence is not a personal family problem; it is a national problem. I'm talking to everyone who hears me say that this law needs to be upheld. And I think whoever's listening to us from the electorate is totally in line with that decision. First of all, to introduce this bill was an entirely broad population surveyed and studied on the subject. We need to uphold this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u94	Thank you. Please, Catherine Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear radio listeners, I'd like to address the BUBTU faction first of all, sit down, you already have the picture, you'll report to Julia tomorrow, standing by the rostrum, so please sit down and rest on your health. And those who stand here against the Anti-Crist Coalition really protect the constitutional system in our country. And what I'm saying is, those who did this were falsely speaking, more than 400 people, national MPs are registered, that is, the sessions are perfectly legal. As far as the bill is concerned. He needs to be taken. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine, like the Anti-Crist Coalition, will vote for it in the first reading, although we do have a number of observations before this bill, of course. We know that although much has been done in the past in connection with the legal settlement of the matter, the opposition to domestic violence has not been resolved. And Mr. Widowenko rightly said that unfortunately, our internal organs are practically closing their eyes. They're not bribes. It's not going, right there, with its UNA UNSO, or what it's called again, this party, which under the banners of the President of Ukraine, divides our country and splits the people of Ukraine. And this is a family! So you just don't have to pay attention to it. And that's why I'm talking to my colleagues, and I want to say that we need to make the second reading much more responsible. And the responsibility is not so much for those who commit domestic violence, the responsibility, of those state authorities who receive the wages paid by taxpayers, including us at the expense of taxpayers, the wages paid, all paid, but we do everything to ensure that the Supreme Council of Ukraine does not work. So, of course, this law needs to be created, but I also have a proposal for colleagues. We should, after all, regulate this law with already valid legislation, but we have crisis centers. Yeah, they're not everywhere, but there are crisis centers where women really find shelter from violence, where they get advice, where they get help and stuff. Because now you and I are going to create a thousand parallel structures that are going to perform the same functions. We don't see today that, as was the President's Administration at Kuchma, which duplicated the functions of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine today. Who is the Yatzenuk who goes to international forums and represents the state there? Who is he, the President's office? So we need to be very careful not to create additional structures that will only interfere with us. And when I finish my speech, I want to say it's a very necessary bill, but the honourable radio audiences, we could vote for it today in the first reading, protecting the woman's mother, the shore of our society. But the great regret, as in 2000, as in BUT, “Our Ukraine” was different, they did the same thing in the Supreme Council of Ukraine under the leadership of the Medvedchuk. They essentially didn't change anything, they also work, they prevent the Ukrainian Parliament from working, and they make it normal for the Ukrainian people to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u96	Question completed. We will determine when there will be technical possibilities, once the "Council" system is turned on. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the application of accountancy registers in the field of trade, public nutrition and services is under consideration. [[on the simplification, provision and payment of communications services]] Registration No. 2575. Report Tarasov Vladimir Volodymyrovich. Get ready for Leapini Kseniya. Please, Vladimir Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u97	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues. The bill proposes to amend article 9, paragraph 10, of the Ukrainian Law on the Use of Accountants in Trade, Public Nutrition and Services, which will allow telephone machines, taxi drivers to perform their primary function, to provide services in connection with the use of cash in the form of coin payment without significant cost of processing them. The development of taxi recorders for the purpose of giving them the uninhabited function of registering accounts, increasing their cost, making their operation much more difficult, increasing their cost and service, and putting them in discriminatory conditions compared to other types of taxi recorders that do not use cash currency forms. In support of the bill, there is a significant increase in the production of taxi recorders, lowering their cost, operation and maintenance, and much easier. In addition, the population has a choice and form of payment for the services provided. The implementation of the bill does not require additional material and other costs; rather, it will save a substantial amount of money that needs to be spent today to complete the taxi recorder park — over 1,000 900 grand. The population of Ukraine is accustomed to paying for today's services with telephone vending machines using cash coins. The percentage of coins in total today is about 75 percent. And that's going to increase. Exploiting organizations are now refusing monetary taxophones, as their fiscal functions make it much more difficult and easier to service them. Therefore, the introduction of this bill will greatly increase the additional revenue to the budget. The population will have a fairly convenient form of pay to provide communications services, and the relevant control organizations will always be able to obtain comprehensive information about the amount of services provided and the amount of money received for any period because all taxi drivers work under the supervision of a management system that stores all the information about the services provided. Please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u98	Thank you. Are there any questions? There are questions, but not those who have the right to ask them. Yes, no questions asked. Have a seat, please. He's coauthor of the law so you can ask. Please, Xenya Lapin from the committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u99	Thank you. Dear colleagues! The committee supports this bill. We stress that this bill will, in fact, allow the money of the State Enterprise of Ukraine to be saved. Not to reorganize more than 1,000 900 telephone devices, which, in fact, would simply reduce the profits of the state - owned enterprise and reduce the revenue of the state budget. On the other hand, we do not see any problems from the point of view of operating those telephone devices and any tax problems. That's why we think that this law is timely, it's useful to adopt it, even if it's generally accepted, even though the committee's decision was a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u100	Are there any questions? And it is, and it isn't. Who wants to share in the discussion? Write down who wants it. No, Easy won't get a word in. According to the Rules, the "Council" system should work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u101	What do you think you're doing here?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u102	According to what is the will of the majority. The thought of opposition does not interest us today. Interesting, but not from you. Who wants to share in the discussion? None. So the bill is closed, we will be determined when the faction of the Block of Timoshenko makes it possible. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Laws on Electricity and Alternative Sources is under consideration, registration number 1223. [[on the establishment of special tariffs for electricity and heat energy – “green tariffs”]] Bronnikov, Vladimir Kostinovich, reports. He's like a co-author, and he's from a committee. Please, Vladimir Costinovich, three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u103	Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Bill No. 1223, entitled “Green tariff”, is proposed to your attention. Everyone in Ukraine has already experienced a crisis in energy and is ready to use energy-efficient technologies for personal and business purposes. However, investors are not yet in a hurry to invest in energy savings, as they are not sure about the return of investments, but thus the industry continues to use the technologies of the day before yesterday, when oil and gas seemed to always be scarce, and continues to throw out an enormous amount of heat. Biomass, made by our black people and our sun, is inexorably burned in the fields, infecting nature with greenhouse gases. As a result, we spend more energy per unit of gross national product than the European Community countries, which intend to produce at least 10-15 per cent of energy from renewable sources. It is intended to eliminate all high-temperature energy emissions in industry. The bill is intended to create a system of incentives for the use of alternative energy sources, including renewable energy, such as biomass, sun, wind, geothermal energy, that is wave and tide energy, that is, secondary energy discharges. The bill also gives the right to the Government to encourage energy saving processes to treat alternative secondary energy resources. Electricity produced from such alternative sources is released at a green rate. The value of the green tariff is set by the National Commission for the Settlement of Energy, as a double tariff for non-existent ones, is an understandable international term for retail electricity consumers, which is consistent with European practice. The green tariff is set for a period of five years, which gives the investor confidence in the return of the investment. However, a small share of alternative energy is expected to change the retail price of electricity by not more than one per cent. However, the consumer is allowed the initiative to purchase clean electricity at green tariffs, which he is issued with a certificate that will give preference to the sale of his products, especially in Western markets. The drafters, members of the TEC Committee, the Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Ministry of Fuel and Energy and NCRE are confident that the adoption of the law will be a real step towards the transfer to energy conservation of Ukraine's entire industry, and enhancing the sustainability of the economy of the state. We ask respectable colleagues to adopt the bill on first reading and to participate actively in its preparation for second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u104	Thank you. Are there any questions? The dry one wants to put up. Please just go to the microphone here. You've lost your life a little bit.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u105	I'm asking, what kind of goats did they shut down? Vladimir Konstantinović, I have a question from the Committee on Social Policy and Labour. What social consequences – positive, not positive in the future, in the near future – are our electorate, the people of Ukraine, awaiting adoption of this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u106	Thank you. First. If this bill is passed, we won't have heat, we won't have heat thrown into the mine. There'll be no heat, there'll be no heat in the metal combination. We use biomass widely. It's plant, it's rap, it's other technologies. We use large-scale hydropower, energy-saving technologies will come to every home, and our people will be able to provide their energy consumption with less energy to produce, and so Ukraine will acquire sustainability. With regard to the price of electricity, since it is a very small proportion of the absolute price, the price will not change significantly. But the consumers of this clean energy, as they call it in the West, will have a certificate that their production is derived from clean energy, which it has. It's the right to a higher price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u107	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? I can't see. The opposition is elsewhere, unfortunately, not in the session room. Yes, the discussion is over. Let's be clear. So let's figure out the technical possibilities. A draft Act amending some Ukrainian legislation on State architectural control and promotion of investment in construction is under consideration. Registration number 2451. Bertash Vasil Mikhailovich, please. Prepare Darchenk Yuri.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u108	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! Recently adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine to amend the Ukrainian Act on Architecture, the State has assumed additional obligations to ensure the safety of buildings and buildings. The fulfilment of these commitments requires a substantial strengthening of State architectural and building control, which requires some legislative support. The need for changes in the state architecture control system is so obvious that it seems unnecessary to make any additional arguments. In fact, this control by name alone is considered to be national, since in its vast majority, it is carried out by inspections involving and subordinated to local authorities and executive bodies. Under such circumstances, it is clear that the objectivity of the decisions taken by the inspections will always raise questions, and examples will therefore be sufficient, not just in the city of Kiev. Local inspections are often subject to administrative pressure, are forced to make decisions that violate the current order, and are involved in the performance of functions that are not their own. As a result, the effectiveness of local inspections of State architectural and building control is very low. This is evidenced by the fact that if the Minbud inspection of seven people in 2005 imposed fines for construction offences for six million dollars, local inspections amounted to 2.5 million dollars. The reason for this situation is, above all, the imperfect structural organization of the state architecture control system. In fact, it has remained unalterable since Soviet times and has been so fixed by the legislation in force in 1992. The main disadvantage of such a system is the organizational, structural, methodological and methodological disengagement of the “Dergerichtbudcontrol” inspection of different levels, and then the lack of the ability to carry out a single, coordinated policy on the issue of the exercise of custodial control, ensuring proper control of the work of local inspections. On the other hand, the imperfect organizational structure of the system of the holdingbuilding control system, and according to the legislation of the inspection of the holdingbuilding control, should be in all administrative and territorial units, including the area. In practice, the lack of funds has led to the absence of inspections in many areas. At the same time, based on actual construction volumes, it is enough to have one inspection in several areas. However, this is contrary to legislation today. To sum up, it can be clearly stated that the mechanism and the importance of the fundamental strengthening of the holding is primarily in the area of its structural and organizational reform. This reform is proposed by transforming the multi-level system of state architecture and building control into a single vertical structure with further transformation in line with European standards into a state-level building oversight system. This system has been operating in Poland for a long time, and Russia has now gone from control to supervision. The bill submitted for consideration proposes to amend the 8 laws of Ukraine. According to some in Ukraine, the only state system of state-owned authorities in Minbud will be established. The maintenance of State architectural and building control inspections is carried out at the expense of customers, builders in order and size set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, by counting them on a special account of the State budget. These costs are to be accumulated in a special budget account and spent on approved funds to maintain the organs of the reserving body. The calculations that have been made show that this value varies between 0.1 and 0.3 percent of the cost of mounting. Probably not a very high price for quality and safety of production. With regard to the proposed changes in the part of the improvement of the state's investment programmes and construction projects, the current procedure for conducting a comprehensive state-level expertise involves the execution of six independent experts, subject to various central executives. Such a system is cumbersome and costly. In many cases, the deadlines for carrying out the ingredients are not well established. With a view to improving the current order of conduct of the State’s expertise, it is proposed to establish a legislative level, first of all, a list of objects for approval of construction projects that are not required by the findings of the State’s expertise. Amendments to article 8 of the Ukrainian Investment Act. Carrying out a national expertise based on the principle of organizational unity of a single window in the course of state expertise, a change to article 15 of the Act of Ukraine. Subordination of all services and investment in Minbud, amendment to article 15 of the Ukrainian Law. The relevant changes are also made to the laws of Ukraine on Fire Safety, on Environmental Protection, on Environmental Expertise, on Work Protection, on Energy Conservation and on Health and Epidemic Welfare. The adoption of this law will allow for the reform of the custodial control system and an improved procedure for conducting a comprehensive state expertise, investment programmes and construction projects aimed at shortening deadlines and costing it. Thank you for your attention and please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u109	Thank you. Are there any questions? Yes. Matthew, please go to the rostrum. Put it in the microphone so that the entire country will hear that you have taken away the opposition of the word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u110	I'm saying to the microphone that the Communist faction, Matthew. So, the honourable reporter, you pointed out in your report that this would be another state body that would allow for the strengthening of state architecture control. Indeed, perhaps, but please explain the the thesis that you just said that the State Architecture Inspectorate would work at the expense of the funds, finance, more faithfully, at the expense of the customers in order and size that will be set up by the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. Well, first of all, you probably know that this is contrary to the Ukrainian Law on Sources of Financing for Governmental Authorities, because it could not have been other funding, but only from the State Budget. This is the first time. Secondly, if this funding is done at the customer's expense, it will probably bring an answer to, if you raise the price for construction, generally for housing, for apartments that are now being built or have already become such that they are not capable of our majority of citizens. What about it? Is this considered by those who have tabled this bill for consideration by the Supreme Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u111	Thank you for asking. Today, you know, there's no vertical treebuilding control and today in the regions, you know, there are no people in some areas who can do that. And today there are a lot of disruptions in the construction sector. These are objects that are built without permission, and they are objects that are inconveniently constructed. The question was whether this 0.1 percent would affect the value of the building as a whole, whether housing or civil. If today the contracting authority pays 20 percent for local self-government, if you take 0.1 percent of the cost of construction, it's not a big cost. And it's not going to be an expansion of the construction work. And so to put order in the construction sector, there has to be a vertical. And today there is no vertical. And the next question to get a building permit today is six independent experts. The customer spends about 45 to 120 days to get through them. And so today, in this law, too, so that an investor can build his project faster, this project is already reducing the term from 15 to 45 days. And that's why this bill, honourable colleagues, I propose to support in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u112	Vasil Makarovich, you've just been asked a little bit about something else: won't that raise the price? Okay. No more questions? Have a seat, please. No, no, if there's a representative of the committee Odarchenko Yuri Vitaliyovich is? None. Who wants to share in the discussion? I can see one and I can't see the other. The country had not heard Sulkovsky in a long time. Please, Paul Gnatovich, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u113	Thank you. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! Regrettably, today, very important drafts of the law are being discussed, which are vitally needed by Ukraine. But it is sad that when the people of Ukraine do not see, they may not feel that we are discussing these most important laws today. And so, Adam Ivanovich, I would like to ask that such cases no longer be allowed in Parliament in the future, I think it is necessary to create a commission immediately, right now, to investigate this negative action that is now in Parliament, where it is completely impossible to discuss draft laws that are extremely necessary for Ukraine. And really, right tomorrow or the day after tomorrow to discuss the conclusions of these actions and to bring to justice those who have committed this negative act in parliament today. Now, specifically on the draft law. In fact, many of the national deputies and structures and entrepreneurs are concerned today if they are actually made to account for their actions there. I think that in our first reading, we should definitely support him today. And I call on all the people's deputies, in the vote, I think tomorrow or the day after, we're going to vote for him. And for the second reading, we really need to seriously discuss this bill. And I think there's going to be a lot of amendments that actually correct this draft law for the second reading and it's really going to be complete before it's adopted in general. And that will truly benefit Ukraine as a whole. Thank you for your attention. Thank you for working with your colleague Vassil Berdish, who will report today. And you know, Adam Ivanovich, I'm also from Western Ukraine, from Equality. And from the Plaintian who reports, it's always in Ukraine's favor that all the draft laws are in place. Please analyze the preceding 15 years. One Basil Red, who worked four calls in parliament, did no project in favour of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u114	Your time is up. Dear colleagues, the question is closed. There is no need for discussion about creating a commission or a group. A task force of the Attorney General's Office is working, she's going to do her job, she's going to draw conclusions to the session room, she's going to have to-- we're going to agree to bring criminal responsibility, arrest those who are there today. So let those who need to work work work. Our job with you is to make laws. We'll vote when there's a technical possibility, tomorrow or tomorrow, or today. Draft law amending certain Ukrainian laws on the return of cultural values to Ukraine. Registration number 2054. Houbsky Bogdan Volodymyrovich. There's no Hubsky? We're taking it off the table. Draft decree on strengthening the protection of property of creative communities in Ukraine. Registration number 3000. National Deputy Yavorowski Volodymyr Aleksandrovich He asked us to put him on the Conciliation Council, and we went to meet him, and we did. I can't see, can I? I don't think he's there? It's off-limits. A draft decree to mark the 200th anniversary of the resorts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. Registration number 2774. Player Leonid Ivanovich, please prepare Dutch.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u115	Reverents! Ouch! Forgive me, People's Deputies! But I specifically spoke, because we must look with you at that priceless property very seriously, from a political and legal point of view, and these priceless assets are all our resorts in Ukraine. But today I will only talk about the Crimea resort, which has a separate history, which in April 2007 is 200 years old. This draft regulation seeks to draw attention, to raise the image of the resort, in this case Crimea, to create an enabling environment for those who work at the resort to feel that they are worthy of attention. It is natural to draw the attention of those investors who may be involved in the acquisition of travel, whether other investment projects could be sufficiently involved in the development of the Crimea resort itself. I would therefore like you to support this draft decision, which provides for a number of measures and measures of this kind, I would say institutional and holiday nature that do not require, first of all, additional funding. And second of all. In view of the fact that we have more than 200,000 people working in Ukraine's resorts as a whole, this is the largest industry, both in numbers and in all levels of the budget. I therefore propose that we in this order request the President to issue a decree establishing the Day of Establishment of Ukrainian Tourist Workers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u116	Thank you, Leonid Ivanovich. Are there any questions? Yes. Chubarov will ask. Please come. Oh, you want to come out? Yeah, questions, I get it, not yet. Questions for discussion now.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u117	One line, I beg your pardon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u118	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u119	As a result, the most active part of the project was then taken by my colleague, Deputy People's Party, Daych Boris Dawdovic, so I am asking for a transcript of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u120	No questions asked. What's more, he's got a word now. Please, from the committee, head of the Committee on Family, Youth Policy, Sports, and Tourism, Boris Davidovich Daych. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u121	Dear colleagues! In introducing the proposed draft decree of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the 200th anniversary of resorts in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, I would like to draw the attention of the deputies to the fact that it is not a pompous celebration of the next anniversary date, but rather to drawing attention to the industry, which is an important social and economic area of society. In addition to health and tourism, as a major role in preserving the health of our country's people and restoring its gene pool, the resort industry in modern economic conditions is becoming increasingly important, leading and stimulating the development of other sectors of the economy in our country's resort regions. Today, it must be acknowledged that Ukraine is a State with a strong natural, scientific and personnel-based resort capacity, which provides it with the best positions in the development of the world's resort business. The Ukrainian resorts — Truscavets, Morshins, Mirgorods, Zakarpatye — are well - known. Peanut, Berdjansk, Odessa. Crimea is largely the mode of treatment, and tested treatment methods are widely used at Ukrainian and European resorts and are attractive to thousands of foreign citizens. By proposing to note this date, we seek not only to demonstrate the results achieved but also to draw the attention of the public, local authorities and the public to the development of the resort in the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Ukraine as a whole. A new push is needed to further improve the logistics base of the industry and the infrastructure of the resort territories, the medical treatment and diagnostic base, take concrete measures to preserve and develop scientific and human capacity, create conditions for domestic and foreign investment. Today, we see a kind of renaissance in modern Russia's resort construction, with over 10 billion people. A large Sochi development fund is being earmarked. Against this background, the loss of Crimean resorts in recent years has become a particularly dangerous trend for 100,000 vacationers from Russia every year. Therefore, the desire to celebrate the 200th anniversary of Crimea resorts should not be an end in itself, but a comprehensive, image-based action that can bring further attention to the fact that the centuries-long history of the Crimean Riviera will continue in our country and at present. I ask the people's deputies to support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u122	Thank you, Boris Davidovich. Have a seat, please. Yes, who wants to share in the discussion? Yeah, I can see that. Okay. All right, Lady Chubarov. Please, Chubarov. Get ready for the can.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u123	Dear colleagues! I don't know if the radios can hear us. I want to say that the climateal, natural qualities of Crimea, which are of a healing nature, are known long ago as the date set by the author of the bill: 200 years. Well, we just have to read a little bit of the famous sources of the history of Crimea. If anyone would like to point out through the document the date when and who used Crimea as such territory or individual natural objects for treatment, I think that date would be much greater than a thousand and a half years. This is the first such observation. It's different. You know, I'm seeing some sort of ideological subtext here like these. Some Crimean officials celebrate 200 years from the date of the founding of Simferopol, although it is clear that Simferopol was founded on the site and on the territory of that city called Ahmedchett and so forth. That's not what I'm talking about. I mean, for me, it would seem to be easy to attract resorters. It's just that it's very basic to say order: to pick up garbage in our resort cities. To do this, we need to introduce economic regulations, economic preferences laws, conditions for cities, cities, like populated areas, like. For recreational facilities to be able to obtain economic support. So, honourable national MPs, it's just a weed, not a document that will work for the participation of the resorters. Ten billion dollars for the development of Sochi and adjacent territories is a measure. If we sent at least 10 million dollars to develop resorts now, that would be a concrete action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u124	Thank you. Please, Oleg Lazko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u125	Oleg Lazko, Yulia Block Timoshenko. The crazy march of democracy today is in our room, and for three hours I've been trying to get words from the opposition faction at least on some of the bills that were being discussed here today. The chairman did not give that word. Finally, at the end of the session, a democratic being took the mountain above the dictatorship -- and he gave his word. Thank you very much, Adam Ivanovich. And I would like to say that those bills that were being considered today in violation of the Supreme Council Rules would simply not have legal force. I mean, we apologize, Adam Ivanovich, for perhaps having your emotions up and expressing some dissatisfaction with our determined actions to protect the interests of Ukrainian citizens, but we are forced to do so because there is no other way to force the so-called Anticrisis Parliamentary majority to listen to the voice of the people. And so on. I'd still like to say. Adam Ivanovich, no matter how you react to the actions of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko, according to the Constitution, the Ukrainian People's Deputy has the right, and according to the Rules, to participate in any matter that is being discussed in the Supreme Council. Therefore, I ask you to keep this in mind and not to deprive you of the opportunity to speak from one or the other. And yet I hope that, because the agenda is almost exhausted and 20 minutes before the end of the session, there are now bills: on the reduction of housing and utility prices and on change is 3069, I remind you -- and on the changes to the budget for this year's budget to increase minimum wage and subsistence minimum. If you do, people will thank us all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u126	Dear colleagues, calm down! I promise you that I have remembered, remembered, and remembered. That's the first one. The other one. There's no violation. We discuss bills, we make decisions when possible. Third. I would like to put your proposal to the vote, but the "Council" system is not working. So you don't want it to be voted on. Yes, please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u127	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In fact, today is an interesting draft decision to celebrate the 200th anniversary of the resorts of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea. I was just approaching the reporter, he really supports in that there are a lot of sanatoriums in Ukraine, which also during the preparation of this decision, I think it will take a lot of serious action not to offend other sanatoriums like the Rabbitman and a number of others, too, I think we need to work seriously so that they don't get distracted. That in one area, some sanatoriums may fall apart, others may fall out, only we can, to some extent, take one interest and harm the other. I think it can be fixed. I think it's going to be the government's decision on the occasion of this, the Supreme Council's ruling yet. And I think that's where it's going to be. Today, I would like to take this opportunity to call on the people's deputies to support this draft decision, and we are particularly interested today, I would like to turn to all my colleagues from western Ukraine, and the Plains region, Volinsky, Hmielnick, Ternopilski, Žitomirski, Kyivsky, central areas, also, that throughout Ukraine today not only needs to be shipped for 24 days, because what ecological damage has been caused to the Ukrainian people today. Clearly, there is no better ecology in Donbas, but as our children and our population suffered in western Ukraine after the Chernobyl AES accident. So today, those travels that provide extremely little help to our children, and our children are the future, today the need for 2-3 months to heal, especially when the 30th anniversary is approaching, when there is really a breakdown of strotion and cesium, that's when they say we need to prepare even more. And that's why when we send out 12-24 days of children today, it's not enough. And that's why I'm taking this opportunity today to listen to all the heads of any property of sanatoriums and resorts, and I think all 450 people's deputies also support that the prices for today are not capable of treating many and more of their children's parents without speaking for themselves. So I ask, Adam Ivanovich, it's also a task to give this project a determination to work out some kind of request point, so that the prices are still lowered for a category like the third, second, not to mention the first one about the Chernobyl disaster. And I call for completion, indeed, this project should be supported and wished to all the workers who serve these sanatoriums and resorts, to them and their families for the very best of health, good and happy fate. And thank you for serving our sick and resting. Good luck to you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u128	Thank you. Please report to Player, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u129	I thank my colleague Sulkovsky for supporting the project. But apparently he did not read it very carefully. It is not that a separate sanatorium celebrates a “flight”, a 200-year resort. It's very different things. That's why the 200th anniversary of the Crimea resort we can't get around to whether it's Mirgorodsky or Truskavetsky. Maybe they're younger, maybe they're older, I don't know personally, but as for a two-hundredth century Crimean resort, it's confirmed by science, historians, there's relevant expertise. And the second. He rightly addressed the problem of being very expensive today, not being able to travel. I'm here with him in solidarity, and I'd like to call and say so. Today, a general tender was launched, as Muller once had everything under his collar, and today, the tender committee, including in this case, has brought up the entire area of the resort. The resorters all, I have letters from the Morticians and the Prussians, not to speak Crimean anymore and so on, everything they call, stand and beg us to trade our goods ourselves. It's going to be a lot of money. But my bill on this subject and supported by Boris Dawdovich has not been discussed on the Committee of Dustenka for several months or otherwise is being sabotaged. Moreover, he refused to consider the bill at the committee meeting. And this is what I'm saying is that the area of sanatorium is particularly, especially, surrounded by a special layer, if you want, of corruption in terms of preventing it from developing. Let us take this decision and vote when it is possible to really point to the image of the Crimea resort. On the other hand, I think the next Conciliation Council will ask my colleague, Dustenka, to explain why he, if you wish, reluctantly refuses to consider the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-02-21-m0.u130	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the matter has been discussed. We will be determined as we were under the previous laws. We have fully carried out the order of the day that we planned for today. So before we announce the adjournment of the morning session, I would ask again, I would ask, and I would ask you, and I would ask you now, we are working at 15 hours in factions and committees, I would ask committees to hold meetings, especially once again, to look at human resources issues so that we can consider tomorrow the President's proposals for appointment and the Foreign Minister and the heads of the Ukrainian Security Service. Therefore, the committees today need to consider making that decision tomorrow. A decision like that is to be taken by the Supreme Council. And it is desirable for the "Council" system to work until then. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Once again, I apologize for the temporary inconvenience in the workplace. Good luck.
