ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u1	Deputies, please prepare for registration. Put your cards in. Sit down, calm down. A registration is being carried out. [[16:00:55]] Registered -444 They want to participate in the 444 National Deputies. The evening session shall be declared open. Two factions from “Our Ukraine” and “The Block of Yulia Timoshenko” ask for breaks, but they cannot compensate for this right, a declaration of the right. That's why we give them the word. Please. It was the morning session, and it was the evening. Please, Viacheslav Anatoliyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u2	Viacheslav Kirilenko, “Our Ukraine”. Statement by the faction “Our Ukraine”. On January 10, the government passed Decree No. 9, which appointed Sergey Popkov as deputy minister of the interior. This is the same Popkov who was commanded by internal forces during the Kuchma regime’s agony. On November 28, 2004, when hundreds of thousands protested in Maidan against the falsification of the presidential election, Sergey Popkov ordered the issue of military weapons stationed under Kiev’s inner armies and sought them out in a military order to move to the capital. Only the determination of Midan’s supporters had to strike back at all those who would raise their weapons against their people and force the armies to return to barracks. President Kuchma of that time thanked Popkov in two days, appointing him as deputy minister of the interior. Today’s coalition and government of Yanukovich are demonstratively returning to the positions of the loneliest leaders of the Qutmu regime. After removing Yuri Lucenk, they return to the Ministry of Internal Affairs with a frame marked by reprisals against citizens. What is worthy of being the deputy minister of Mikol Plehanov, who in 2004 managed the arrests and beatings of the Suman students who were on their way to Kiev? Why do governments like Popkov, Plechanov, and others? There can only be one answer. For the execution of the Ukrainian people, who will inevitably rise up again against the antihuman policy of such a government. Only people who are willing to stop at nothing may be needed to do so. We believe that we must not join in one hand in the holding of the second national round table and in the implementation of the Universal National Unity, but in the other hand to sign the decree on the appointment of the Odystic General as deputy minister of the interior. Such actions will not lead to peace in Ukrainian society but will only exacerbate political opposition. In this regard, we call on Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovitch to repeal Order No. 9 of 10 January of this year and to remove Sergio Popkov from his post as Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs and to avoid further such unconstructive assignments, which contribute to the strengthening of political opposition rather than social unity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u3	Thank you. A reduced procedure is being considered. The decision on this subject was voted in the morning session. And in order of course, the draft Law on Organizational and Legal Principles for the Elimination of Lands of Private Property Rights. Reporter of this matter: National Deputy of Ukraine, Silchenko Vasil Andriyovich. From the procedure? Give the Turk a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Mr. Alexander Alexanderovich, I am addressing you because you are now, as Head of the Supreme Council, holding an evening meeting. The point is that such laws that apply to the earth apply to each of us, every citizen of Ukraine. These are strategic laws for our nation. And in a two-minute hurry to report and discuss such laws, I'm sorry, it's just a crime. That is why we ask our faction of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” to discuss this land law in full procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u5	I know you've made your decision on this. Actually, it's a smart idea for you, of course. But actually, since it concerns the procedure, I can put it to a vote without talking about it. I'm voting on Alexander Valentinovich's proposal, please. [[16:05:49]] For-189 There are no votes. So let's think about the simplified procedure. But from the essence of this law, the meaning of this law is not lost; it is a very serious document, I would like us to approach it very carefully. Where's Vasil Andryovich? Ivan Sidorovich? Let's go, the co-reporter goes now, Bevzenko Valery Fedorovich, and then we. Is that a co-reporter? That's right. Is there a Valery Fedorovich? Go to the rostrum. As the author of the bill and the representative of the committee, he will report on his own, which means that we can give him four minutes to report in practice yesterday, since the matter is serious and requires careful identification of positions. Please. 2141.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u6	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Bill 2141 of the Committee, our committee, discussed it at its meeting. This is a bill on organizational and legal principles to increase the redemption of private property rights and to propose to the Supreme Council that it be accepted on the basis of these reasons. Well, first of all, this bill that goes into the end of the Earth Code, which we have to accept in order for the land market to enter into force. This is the first one. In a year. The other one. As a result of the land reform process in Ukraine, a change took place in the structure of the land fund, where private land ownership accounts for about 50 percent of the entire agricultural land. In today’s market relations, ownership of land cannot be absolute, and it must also perform a social function similar to that. This is done in other countries with developed markets in order to ensure that the social interests of the people of Ukraine, the State and the territorial communities are realized. The purchase of land and the right to private property cannot be the subject of a dispute, depending on the fact that social needs — the construction of roads, gas pipelines, plumbing, electricity lines, airports, defence facilities, and so on — are vastly superior to the private. However, such a ransom must be made according to predetermined rules and protect the interests of earth’s owners. This is what the bill establishes, namely: it contains rules governing social relations, which are in the process of removing the purchase of private property land to meet social needs in cases where such social needs cannot be secured at the expense of other state or municipal property. So our subcommittee and the Agrarian Policy Committee are proposing to adopt this bill as a basis for the first reading. And on the second reading, we're going to correct all the observations that the Legal Expert Office has given us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u7	Thank you. Please have a seat. Please take your seats. Silchenko Vasil Andriyovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u8	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. Basil Silchenko, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine With regard to the bill, I would like to point out that the need for its development is due to the change in the structure of Ukraine's land fund, which is based on the principles of private, municipal and state ownership of land. Land privatization, farming, primary and secondary land markets make it necessary to balance private and social interests in the process of acquisition and realization by citizens, legal persons, territorial communities, and the State of subjective land rights. At the same time, under part five of article 41 of the Constitution of Ukraine, the compulsory alienation of private property objects can only be applied as an exception to the grounds of social necessity on the basis and in accordance with the law and provided that their value has been compensated in advance and in full. Forced alienation of such objects and the subsequent full compensation of their value is permitted only under conditions of war or state of emergency. Taking into account the stated standards of the Basic Law of Ukraine, the current Code of Land contains two articles: 146th and 147th, the standard of which reinforces the legal principles of land-purchase for social needs and forcing them to be alienated on grounds of social necessity. However, the standards of the above articles of the Code of Land are general and do not regulate the grounds and procedures for the removal of the purchase of land for private property for social purposes or forcible alienation for reasons of social necessity. Moreover, there are no other laws or legislation in Ukraine that would regulate them.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u9	Thank you, Vasil Andryovich. In fact, you have confirmed that these relations need to be regulated by law. Have a seat, please. Write down who wants to make that statement, two against, two against. Dry Jaroslav Mikhailovich. Let's get out of here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u10	Dear colleagues! Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions You know, we're just, as it were, doomed to vote in favour of this bill, because I would like everyone to remember: we have a huge debt to Ukrainian society. During 2007, we made a commitment to adopt a number of laws that would regulate the land market. This bill, which regulates the legal and organizational principles of removal or redemption of land, the right to private property. One of these bills that our society needs. And another thing, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this bill is necessarily, in turn, and the social consequences, because this is about how we protect a good-natured owner, and in this way we protect the rights of the state in the light of what I think is clearly and constitutionally all aspects of such a future procedure are based on the legislative level. So I'm sure our faction will vote in favour of this bill in the first reading. And we propose and call on the Ukrainian National Deputies to support this bill. Remember that we have not yet one such bill to draft and vote on. Therefore, the profile committee that was represented here should remember this too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u11	Kirilenko instead of Lukyanchuk, please. He's co-author of the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u12	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. Ivan Kirilenko, “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, Dnipropetrovština. I'm still going back to the question that we raised at the beginning of the evening session, so that the following land issues that will be scheduled for the day will not be dealt with in the short term. Because they have too high a resonance echo in society and not just in our session room. That's the first one. A second wish. Given the high temperature of these issues and the high tension in the room, this law gives us an example of the joint work of all factions on key bills. In particular, there were representatives of the vast majority of factions working on it, and I feel that understanding in the hall is that we will support it in the first reading, how important it is today. And essentially the law. Dear colleagues, indeed, most of the lands in Ukraine are scattered and are privately owned. Private property is a sacred right that is protected by the Constitution, by laws and is inviolable. But with regard to private property on earth, there is no such absolute right in the whole world. Because social, public, public interests are higher than private interests. So how to address today’s issues are the construction of transport corridors, gas pipelines, water systems, energy systems, facilities that are socially relevant for general use, conservation measures, and so forth. How Can I Decide? Answers this law. That is, by alienation, by redemption at market prices, at the previous payment. For those who ask the question, what about the moratorium that we overcame last Wednesday. That same year, and we stipulated in this law that in a year the citizen should be informed that the owner of the land would be alienated by ransom. And the last. Dear colleagues, the law is fully in line with the norms of the European Union and of the world's co-operation in these matters, so please support and give a good signal, what we promised on Wednesday to work on land laws as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u13	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the thought was correctly expressed by Turkinova, for if this matter were considered and still at the morning meeting, it would be possible to draw attention to the speculations that are taking place today in the allocation of land for the social needs of those who want to warm their hands on this matter. Thus, by repeating the experience of foreign countries, this law does not allow this to happen, it offers a whole range of measures to prevent criminals from speculating on social needs. And I think when we're working on second reading, and then we're going to take a close look at it in preparation, and when we're in the session room, we're going to complete all the right thoughts that are in the MPs and those who are going to be involved in the work on this project and we're going to adopt a definitively good law. Now we have every reason to put the vote to the first reading. I'm doing this by proposing a vote on this law. [[16:18:08]] For 350. Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor's Payment is under consideration. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Turmanov Viktor Ivanovich, reports. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u14	Dear Alexander Aleksanderovich, distinguished colleagues Your attention is requested to consider a draft law amending the Law on Restoration or Recognition of the Debtor. On behalf of our industry drivers, I would like to thank the members of the fourth call when the Basic Law was amended in 2002 to suspend bankruptcy in coal industries. This has enabled the destruction of the coal industry to be halted. On 1 January 2007, the moratorium on the bankruptcy of coal enterprises ended. The adoption and implementation of the proposed draft law will prevent the loss of critical coal enterprises to Ukraine's economy and avoid significant environmental and social problems, help prevent the dismissal of industry workers, provide these workers with wages and all social guarantees. The abolition of the moratorium would result in the bankruptcy of lost coal enterprises and the subsequent change of the owner without a privatisation procedure, which would result in significant economic damage to the State. The bill is therefore amended to extend the moratorium on the bankruptcy of coal enterprises until 1 January 2010. The very essence of the law does not change. The Ministry of Coal, the Ministry of Economy, supports the bill. The Economic Policy Profile Committee also supports the bill. And when I reported, the decision of this special committee was taken today not only on the basis of the law but generally as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u15	Thank you. Have a seat, please. The chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy’s subcommittee, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov, has the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u16	Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! The Ukrainian law of May 14, 1992, on the restoration or bankruptcy of the debtor, established the order and conditions for the implementation of bankruptcy cases, including mining companies. As a result, the practical implementation of the legislation in question in 2000-2002 in connection with the extremely difficult economic situation in the coal sector has affected bankruptcy cases more than 70 per cent of all coal enterprises. Therefore, with a view to preventing the total elimination of coal enterprises that still have significant coal production stocks, but are not able to provide for increased production and economic balance, the Supreme Council of Ukraine has adopted, during the years 2003-2005, the relevant laws of Ukraine to amend the above-mentioned legislative act, according to which a moratorium on the bankruptcy of mining enterprises has been imposed for a period of time. Thus, in the absence of a continuation of the article of the Ukrainian law, since 1 January 2007, bankruptcy cases will be restored in a number of mining enterprises. The draft law proposes that by 1 January 2010, the rule of law that prohibits the bankruptcy of mining enterprises is not limited to a proportion of States in statutory funds, which is at least 25 per cent due to the fact that, according to its current regulation, such a moratorium is terminated on 1 January 2007. The main scientific and expert administration in general does not object to the adoption of this law. The Economic Policy Committee yesterday decided to adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u17	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Write down who wants to comment on this bill: two for, two against. Please. Arjovitin, please. Bondar, please, Alexander Mikolaiovich, instead of Arjevitin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u18	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! Ukrainian Republican Party "The Council", faction "Our Ukraine", Alexander Bondar. I want to make a statement to the faction, we understand the situation in the coal sector, in coal enterprises, it's not the first year. Unfortunately, the rapporteur of this law did not tell us that he had given us a previous moratorium, which had existed for many years, to the extent that it had improved the coal situation. And what he will do if we continue the moratorium until 2010. I want to remind you that the Supreme Council adopted in its first reading the law, which is the author of Matvienkov, who is suspending Moratorium for bankruptcy in all businesses in Ukraine. And we're only making exceptions for the coal sector. I think we have other areas where we're in the same difficult, difficult financial situation that we should also have given this right to worsen our financial situation, whether sanctions are imposed on them or not? But we're singled out once again, creating an unequal environment for her with everyone else, and that doesn't match market liberal approaches to economic policy. So I say to the faction that we will refrain from upholding this law, and we believe that all of our sectors of the national economy should work in equal conditions. If we abolish moratoriums throughout the national economy, including APK objects and so forth, other objects, why should we make exceptions for one field? The deputy of Matvienkov can confirm that there is a difficult situation in metallurgy and other businesses, and they are dealing with it somehow. And the main thing is that the home-grown sword of bankruptcy or deprivation of property must exist, otherwise it leads to the financial situation of enterprises getting worse, and no one is responsible for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u19	Easy. Please, Volintz is speaking instead of Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u20	Dear colleagues, that's how important the question is, if you go back back to the '90s, then in the coal sector, you've created a debt of more than 10 billion dollars. And it was at that time that the mines were most closed without any responsibility or restructuring. And it's the adoption of this bill, the continuation of it, that's so important, that we have to save the mines today. For example, the “Knegginska” mine and other mines in the Lugansk region, which were in a state of sanitation in early 2001-2002, we took them out of that state for two years. If we do not preserve the coal industry today, we will now be completely dependent on foreign energy carriers. Therefore, it is vital that we vote in favour of this bill and support it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u21	I think it's taken into account this argument, it's pretty serious. I ask you, you have a project on your hands to determine how to vote. I put to the vote the draft Law on the extension of existing legislation until 1 January 2010, i.e. for 3 years. Please, there's a vote. [[16:27:07]] For 326 Decision taken. Your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending certain legislative acts of Ukraine. [[concerning the dismissal and appointment of officials]] But I'm asking for your attention. In view of the fact that there are two other alternative projects to be considered simultaneously under the Rules but not being considered for consideration today, in accordance with the Rules, I would like to postpone consideration of this issue when these alternative projects are being prepared for consideration. And so I ask your permission to transfer this project to the next plenary session. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. Please support her. [[16:28:02]] For 358 You're making a decision. A draft Act on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the Court of Justice of Ukraine is under consideration to ensure that civil matters are dealt with in a cassational manner. A member of the Justice Committee, Fesenko Leonid Ivanovich, reports. Your attention, please, because the question is very serious. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u22	Fesenko Leonid, faction of the Party of Regions, Lugansk Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear colleagues! You have before you a bill that provides for a one-off referral of civil cases to court complaints and appeals pending by the Supreme Court of Ukraine for consideration by the College of Judges of the relevant Courts of Appeal. The composition of these colleges will form the prejudices of these courts. The Court of Civil Affairs of the Supreme Court of Ukraine will continue to carry out the mandate of the civil appeals court and case complaints filed with the Supreme Court of Ukraine after the act has become effective. On the basis of the legislative initiative. During the past four years, the civil court of the Supreme Court of Ukraine has had a catastrophic situation with regard to the handling of complaints of cassation. In the first half of 2005, more than 44,000 civil cases were under consideration. In 2006, it's 55,000 cases. In the courtroom, there are only 20 judges working in civil matters. And if the judge of the appeal court is only hearing 16 cases a month, every judge of the civil court of the Supreme Court of Ukraine is looking at 719 cases, that's 30 cases a day. People are looking forward to solving the question three or four years from now. And the Supreme Court, its civilian chamber is crumbling by the number of cases. This clot has paralysed civil litigation in Ukraine. In our power today to correct this mistake and allow the Supreme Court to work properly. We discussed the bill on several occasions on the committee and concluded that it should be adopted on such grounds. First. This situation in the Supreme Court of Ukraine shows that we are first of all.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u23	Thank you. You've given convincing information. Apparently that's how the MPs got it. Vasil Vasilovitch Onopenka is the Head of the Supreme Court, whom we welcome as the leader of the independent branch of government, wants to make a statement on this subject. He's got two minutes. I ask that you listen to him carefully.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u24	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. I am grateful for this opportunity to explain the position of the Supreme Court on this issue. Indeed, in the Supreme Court, because of various circumstances, including the fact that the court of cassation had not been established, 40,000 cases had been brought together in the civilian chamber. It takes three or four years to get to the bottom of this. In this case, the whole content of the cassation is lost. To the Supreme Court, and I think to you, people are complaining. Unfortunately, there is nothing we can do. In addition, the European Court of Human Rights has been appealed to and the European Court of Justice has ruled against Ukraine. So we think that this is a question that needs to be resolved in this way: to put 40,000 cases before appeals courts, but in different courts: from Winnitz to Lviv, from Lviv to Winnitz, that is, the veer, not in the area where they came from, but in different areas. Create appropriate colleges there and view in the order of the cassation. Those cases that will not be completed, we need to go to the Supreme Court and put the last dot. I think this approach will allow people to realize their right to cassation. In addition, we've already made changes to the Civil Procedure Code, where there will be no more collapses that are today. The Supreme Court shouldn't, I'm sorry, deal with border issues, shallow property disputes and so forth. That's why such a bill is actually working for us, we're going to ask the members of the Supreme Council to submit this bill for consideration by the Supreme Council, and as a result, the Supreme Court will work more effectively, to take up the most important social issues before it, and to set the order in this regard. Thank you for your attention. Now, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u25	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to comment on this? Is there a need to speak? Is there no objection? So I think we're going to support Vasil Vasilovich's opinion, which is to say that this phenomenon has been the result of the imperfections of the judicial system, and we're going to probably need a committee of our own, and the deputies to accept those changes to the laws that order the passage through the judicial institutions of the case. I put this project to the vote and ask him to support it in the first reading, in the first reading. [[16:34:03]] For 392 Decision taken. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Judiciality of Ukraine is under consideration. The factions wanted the last one? Please publish in factions: “Regions” – 176, “Clock Timoshenko” – 117, “Our Ukraine” – 41, “SPU – 31, Communists – 21, non-fractional – 6. The bill of the People's Deputy Onischuk Mikola Vasilovich, published by me, reports. [[Registration number 2448]] Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u26	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine! National MPs Zubko, Zabarski, Zamkovenko, Onichuk, Portnov and Fesenko came up with a legislative initiative to amend the transitional provisions of the Code of Administrative Justice. [[Calling Your Attention to This Circumstance]] As you know, with the validity of the Code of Administrative Justice, all administrative disputes and administrative matters that were dealt with by military or related personnel were removed from the conduct of military courts, bearing in mind that they were to be referred to administrative courts, particularly district and appeal courts. Unfortunately, as you know, this is not the first time that we've returned to this subject, the establishment of district and appeal courts has been delayed. And I would like to take this opportunity right now to get the attention of both the government and the heads of state back to the fact that the creation of an administrative justice system was one of Ukraine's most visible political and legal steps towards improving the judicial system. Thus, since the situation was so that the administrative courts, which were to deal with these cases with the involvement of military personnel or persons compared to them, did not create them, then the Code of Administrative Justice stipulated that they should be dealt with, these cases, by general courts, particularly by district courts, which deal with civil and administrative matters, under the rules of the Code of Administrative Justice. However, as we know, procedurally and procedurally, the case has its own characteristics, and so these courts are essentially not considering these cases, there is no such possibility. That's the law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u27	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u28	The law has a temporary purpose, pending the formation of administrative courts, enabling them, military courts, to deal with administrative matters involving military officials, as was the case before the adoption of the Code of Administrative Justice. With effect, with the formation of courts, they automatically assume the jurisdiction of the military courts, and thus we do not introduce or violate the integrity of the system by the judicial system, in view of the fact that administrative courts will only continue to deal with administrative matters, including with the participation of a military official. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u29	Thank you. There is a member of the Justice Committee Vladislav Zabarski. Please. Vladislav Valeriyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u30	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues. The Justice Committee, at its meeting on 10 January 2007, reviewed the draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Justice of Ukraine, registration number 2448, to limit the number of cases assigned to administrative courts and military courts. It should be noted that the committee considered the bill three times. After the second review, on December 27, 2006, the committee decided to establish a working group to improve the bill, which included representatives of the committee, the Supreme Administrative and Military Courts. In considering this bill, the committee took into account, first of all, that military courts not only deal with cases involving military and military officials, but also with the participation of military personnel in the Ministry of Emergency Situations, the Ukrainian Security Service, the Internal Forces. Today, several thousand cases for more than a year and a half cannot be considered because the system of administrative courts has not yet been established and therefore military officials do not have constitutionally guaranteed free access to court. The bill aims at transferring the powers of review in the order of the Code of Administrative Justice of a separate, comprehensive category of administrative matters, where either military or military officials are party to a dispute, as well as disputes related to the State’s secret. At its meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft law, registration number 2448, to be adopted as a basis and as a whole. Please be supportive.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u31	Have a seat, please. If you would like to make a statement, write down two in favor, two in favor. Fillindash, please, in favor, and Easy is against.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u32	Please pass The word of Ambassador Mendus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u33	Please, Mendus Alexander Petrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u34	Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! The proposed bill is urgent and refers essentially to the need to overcome the clot that was formed as a result of the fact that the system of district and appeal administrative courts has not yet been fully operational. This leads to the failure of the entire category of cases arising from administrative relations in the field of military administration to be dealt with in a timely manner. First of all, the requirement of article 6 of the Sixth Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms has been violated with regard to ensuring that every individual is tried by an independent court for a reasonable period of time. The bill is argued to have a limited duration of application. In particular, I would like to point out that in the discussion on the committee, regardless of whether they belong to government or opposition factions, experts have expressed themselves for their relevance and the need to accept it today. Experts, as well as representatives of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine, took part in the drafting of this version of the bill, also expressed their support for its adoption. So under a similar consensus that has been reached, please accept this bill in the first reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u35	Thank you. Who do I want to say no to? Baby, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u36	Alexandre Alexandrovich, do not mislead Ukrainian citizens and the hall. That bill is easy to say for.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u37	You have a "minus" badge, and I'm announcing it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u38	I'm sorry, I'm not responsible for your system. I was writing in favor. I support this bill, and our faction supports it, because the adoption of this bill will allow better access to justice for military personnel and will help protect their rights. I also wanted to say that today there was a lot of controversy about the Supreme Council Rules and the actions of the chairman at the early plenary meeting, which convinced us that he could take away any deputy. Article 28 of the Rules states that the chairman turns off the microphone without warning if the speaker speaks without permission. No one gives the chairman the right to appreciate the essence of the question raised by the deputy. The MP is responsible for what he says. Nor does the chairman determine who has the right to say or not. In addition, article 52 of the Supreme Council Rules allows the presiding officer to interrupt a speech if the deputy uses offensive expressions to the address or colleagues or deputies or anyone else. There is no other reason for depriving a member of the Supreme Council. In this regard, I am addressing Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, who interrupted our colleague today, Olya Bondar, who did not allow me to say which many other deputies are unable to say, do not stop the deputies from expressing their point of view. Voters, citizens of Ukraine, let everyone who is worth it, not you. No one gave you that right. Follow the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u39	I would like us to be careful when we read the Rules and when we speak, including, even on the eve of the day, just as a national MP. Article 31 of the Rules states, paragraph 36, paragraph one: “The speaker should speak only on the matter from which he was given his word and the duration of the speech. Under normal circumstances, the speaker’s speech is not interrupted.” These are not comments. This is a quote from the Rules. You think it is necessary to comment on the Rules when you consider an issue that has no bearing on the Rules but, rather, on the content of the Rules, and you believe that you are right. In addition, you pressed the minus button and displayed it on the monitor because no one had made such mistakes, and you still feel that it is possible to make a complaint to me because I am absolutely objectively expressing the position on the monitor. So keep an eye on what you do and be mutually objective, then orderly. Thank you. There is a proposal to consider voting in the first reading of this bill. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. In the first reading, Mikhail Vasilovich. [[16:46:16]] For 230 Decision taken. Since there is no objection to considering it in the second reading, I do not put this question to the vote, this proposal. A draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on Executive Conduct is under consideration. [[on the prohibition of the confiscation of housing for debts from residential services]] Report by Bodnar Olga Borisovna, please. Yeah, people would know. The thing is, it's not coming today, it's broadcasting.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u40	Dear Chairman! Dear colleagues! I want to draw your particular attention to this bill, which I have the honour to present. Today, virtually all over Ukraine has begun a tariff war against the people. And in Donetsk, Lugansk, Lviv, Kiev, they're just massively raising tariffs. In Donetsk, twice, in Kiev, 3-3.5. The biggest rise took place in Ivano-Frankiv, Sumskia, Mikolai, Zakarpatski, Kirovograd, Lviv, Hmelnicki, Kiev and Sevastopol. Even the warm winter did not stop this raise in utility bills. Hundreds of thousands of people in all regions are at the brink of existence. The average Ukrainian who receives an official salary is forced to pay 40, 50, sometimes 60 percent of his income for utilities. If, for example, an average of the city of Kiev were to take a two-bedroom apartment with all its benefits, it would be, if it was equipped with a counter, the citizens would pay about 374 bracelets for this apartment. If there's no counters, they're going to pay 450 dollars, something like that. This is not about improving the level of services, as if there were no problems. The mechanism for obtaining subsidies is complex enough. And if we look at the order in which housing subsidies are allocated, we'll see that we have to collect a lot of paperwork, run, stand in line. Or can each of us do so, especially a pensioner who lives on a holiday, on a beach, on an insulin. It's clear that people are starting to get debts for rent and housing services and that civil legislation, the Civil Code on the award of a public service contract, is going into effect as to what is going on in court. An invitation for three years after the debt, which is sometimes referred to, let's say, utilities, doesn't mean anything. Because, in principle, the courts have to decide for themselves if the term of the past is drained and they can take any dispute into consideration. Debtors' apartments are thus under arrest.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u41	Right. There is an alarm. So please finish the talk for another 30 seconds. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u42	Thank you. A bill designed to protect people in these difficult circumstances is designed to amend the law on enforcement, which prohibits housing for debts, housing services for those citizens, total income that does not exceed the subsistence minimum. In order to prevent possible fraud and abuse of this norm, it is assumed that, first of all, the drawback cannot be directed only to property where citizens are constantly living and registered. Secondly, the project is extended to those citizens who are facing debt, pensions, social benefits, compensation, loss and loss of money savings. I think that's a fair rule, a state can't take from low-income citizens the last time it has such a huge debt to them. Debtors of residential services should agree to a debt structure contract. This is another safeguard that citizens also have certain conditions in which this law is enforced. I urge you to support this bill and accept it not only in the first reading but in general as a law. Thank you for your attention. I think you'll understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u43	Have a seat, please. Thank you. Instead of Bespalogo, Pisarenko Valeriy Volodymyrovich of the Committee is speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u44	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. The Committee on Legal Policy considered at its meeting a draft of the Ukrainian Housing and Utilities Act amending Ukraine on the implementation of the ban on the confiscation of housing for the population of Ukraine, introduced by the Ukrainian National Deputy Yulia Timoshenko. The committee supports the need to adopt a bill aimed at prohibiting the confiscation of housing for housing and utility services for Ukrainian citizens whose total income does not exceed the fixed subsistence minimum. At the same time, according to the committee, the legal formulation of the proposed project requires substantial work in preparation for the second reading. What I'm saying is that the committee has considered two observations by the Scientific and Scientific Administration. The first involved whether we should impose this restriction only temporarily or on a permanent basis. Science and expertise thinks that we need to keep this constraint on a permanent basis. That's the first remark. The second observation of such a technical nature is about the terms used. It's not about the confiscation of housing, it's about the seizing of housing. Such remarks I think we will correct before we read again. And the committee decided to recommend to the Supreme Council of Ukraine a draft Ukrainian law on implementing the first reading and adopting it as a basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u45	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Write two "for", two "against". School "for," please. Andrew, go to the rostrum. The Turks will be speaking, please. Turkish instead of School.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u46	Dear colleagues, today the Chinese receive, like most of our population, new payments, where public services are tripled. Sadly, today most of our citizens are left alone with problems that need to be solved. And many of them today are unable to pay more for utilities than they receive for their families. That's why it's a very timely law. We cannot allow our citizens not only to become beggars but also to be thrown out of their homes, and you and I, thanks to the policies that are taking place in the country today, are creating a new class of bums. That is why, dear colleagues, we, our faction of the Yulia Timoshenko bloc, very much ask you to support this bill. I want to draw your attention to the following. This does not apply to all citizens who do not pay for apartments, but it is only in the law that emphasizes, exclusively, the categories of the poor. I mean, people whose income is less than their utility bills and they're just physically incapable of paying for it, and subsidies, you know, they're not always able to get it. It is in order not to destroy, physically do not destroy, throw them out into the street, and it is suggested that this law be passed. You can fully agree with the proposals of the Council of Experts to make this law, not temporary, but permanent. That is what needs to be completed in the second reading and now the law is adopted as a basis. I very much ask you, fellow honourable Members, to support this bill and together, regardless of the political affiliation to vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u47	A poison from the Party of Regions, please. That's right, a national MP. Please give him your word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u48	Dear colleagues, I absolutely share the concern that concerns perhaps most of the population of Ukraine about paying for residential services. But I would like to remind you, there are a lot of colleagues here who worked as circuit and city leaders. Remember, just today there's this problem, it was five years ago, and 10 years ago, the debts for residential services were from the beginning, but how to get out of this situation, it's a very different question. I'm concerned about the other side of this bill, that today the payment of debts for residential services has been translated into a political plane, and today everyone wants to blame the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for forgetting that local self-government authorities today should maintain transparent policies in this regard, public hearings and work with the population to pay the appropriate payments. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, unlike my predecessor, is doing absolutely everything in order to support all of those costs to the very types of people that were called. And we don't need to speculate on disabled people today, pensioners and other categories of our population. Moreover, this bill cannot be supported by the example that, according to the Ukrainian Law on Enforcement, this law regulates, not the issue of confiscation of property, but the issue of recourse, property collection. But perhaps the main point of the project is that it's all about trying to speculate again and it's about getting most of the people and people of Ukraine to stop paying for housing services at all. May I have the rest of 20 seconds for Hanni Herman's lineup?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u49	The right is passed on to time. I would ask you to use this rule. The word is Filindash Eugene Volodymyrovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u50	Dear colleagues, the faction of socialists certainly supports the very idea that people cannot be left without housing, especially if it is the only family, because it really means actually ending a full life for all people who are being deprived of housing for these families. However, the ideology of the law itself raises some questions. Why? Because, indeed, as has been said here, it is that the law actually proposes not to comply with the decisions of the courts. Instead, when we read this bill again first, we suggest that we write a rule by which the courts will not be able to make such a decision at all, i.e., in principle, to ban the confiscation of housing, rather than prohibit the imposition of tenants. Because in doing so, we recognize that we have the right to take housing from people, but we simply suspend the decisions of these courts. It is necessary to establish a norm under which this right will not exist at all and then the courts will not, in principle, take such a decision. So on re-first reading, we need to make a substantial revision of this law and set a standard that would not allow people to confiscate this housing at all, and actually do it on a permanent basis, not on a temporary one. Thank you for your attention. This position will be supported by the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u51	Thank you. All those who had the desire to do so expressed themselves. One suggestion was to vote on the first reading of this project. Another proposal is for a re-read. I put to the vote the proposal made in the draft regulation, the vote in the first reading. [[16:59:19]] For 212 It was an offer to send for the rereading of the first reading. I'm asking you to support this proposal for a second reading. I'll call it in later. To read again. [[16:59:43]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. The factions, please. Region Party 5, Yulia Block Timoshenko – 117, Our Ukraine – 65, Socialist – 31, Communist – 18, non-fractional – 3. First of all, you have everyone in the monitor, look, please, there's all the data. I say again, look, you have a monitor in front of you, please. A draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the equal rights and opportunities of women and men in the electoral process]] Olena Fedorovna Bondarenko will report, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u52	Dear Mr. Head! Dear National Deputies! Olena Bondarenko, faction of the Yulia Block of Timoshenko. The bill, which is proposed to your mind, serves to ensure parity between women and men in the Ukrainian legislature and in local self-government. The United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, adopted in 79 C.E., defines the responsibility of UN member States for the equal representation of women and men in the authorities on the basis of special, first and foremost legislative measures. A year has passed since the Supreme Council passed the Law on Equal Rights and Opportunities for Women and Men. At the time today, to accelerate the implementation of this law into Ukrainian legislation. I want to draw your attention to three important things: First, this bill does not propose granting preferences for one sex or another. It is about ensuring the presence of both women and men in each five of the electoral lists. And this is entirely in line with the requirements of equality of opportunity, for when nearly 92 percent of men and a little more than 8 percent of women are in the Supreme Council, the situation in rural councils is often the opposite and also needs to be addressed accordingly. The other one. We deliberately do not determine how many men or women are to be on every five lists, and this will determine each political force on its own. Thirdly, by associating with colleagues from different factions, we have come to the conclusion that we need to add to the final position that this law is being applied, starting with the subsequent election of Ukrainian national deputies, members of the Supreme Council of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea, local councils and rural, village, city heads. And the fourth. And when we also respond to the observation of scientific expertise, we suggest that we make a comprehensive introduction into the body of the bill of addition of this content: every five, starting with the first one. And finally. Dear colleagues, yesterday in The Facts in Nina Karpachov's interview.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u53	I'm asking you to give me 30 seconds to finish thinking. Let him finish his thought.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u54	Nina Carpachov’s interview with The Facts suggested that, unfortunately, men in Ukraine today are not yet ready to see a woman in politics, business, diplomacy or art on an equal footing. I think we have a great chance of proving, of protesting that we are all ready for this equality. Please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u55	Thank you. Thank you. Yuri Bogdanovich Klukkowski of the committee is speaking on this point.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u56	Thank you. Dear colleagues, the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government asks you to support this bill, I emphasize, in the first reading. The thing is, it's not exactly an electoral bill. The problem of the equal rights of women and men in electoral matters is an old problem. And while Ukraine has a sufficiently serious commitment, including international commitments to this area, I would call it article three and 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of 1966, the Second and Seventh Conventions of 1979 on the Prohibition of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, a series of OSCE documents of 1991, 1999 and so forth. Unfortunately, however, there are no real mechanisms for securing these rights today. And what I want to stress is, in addition to a declaration of law, we need to give the right mechanism. Last year we had parliamentary hearings in the Supreme Council on this subject, and on 29 November there was a round table: “The role of Parliament in ensuring equal rights, opportunities for women and men”, in which the Head of the Supreme Council, Alexander Alexander Aleksandrovich Moroz, took part, pointing out that such a problem – equal rights – is a feature of what everyone says, but not everyone is providing. And when it comes to political problems, elections, for example to parliament, to local authorities, somehow women are less visible than they should be represented in the structures of power. This is a quote from Alexander Aleksandrovitch Moroz. In this regard, the committee proposes to support this bill in the first reading, since there is one fundamental flaw: in legal terms the term “five” is not defined, it needs to be written, and the committee is prepared to do so for the second reading. The bill is supported in the first reading, apart from our committee, by the Committee on Legal Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. We ask you very much.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u57	Thank you, Yuri Bogdanovich, especially for referring to me as a classic in this matter and saying that this is the way to vote. Although I did not speak in such a way that it was necessary to do so. I hope they'll listen to the MPs. In the meantime, write down who wants to say yes and no. Please. Doesn't anyone want to? I don't believe anyone wants to say anything. Rybeka. Is there a watermelon? None. Quality, please. What about Rybek tomenko? Please. Wait, Tomenko will speak first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u58	Dear colleagues, we have a strategic task: to make the Supreme Council a representative body of the Ukrainian people. What does that mean? This means that we have to make sure that all the regions, all the age categories, and, of course, representatives of both the female majority of the Ukrainian population are adequately represented in this session hall, because women, you know, have almost 53% of the population and the male part. We have about 7% of women in Parliament today. And I'm, frankly, analyzing party lists, if we don't do anything about updating Parliament's structure, the next Parliament is obviously going to be the Supreme Council of mostly rich older men from Kiev and Donetsk. And I wouldn't want it to be like this in our parliament. I would like to have young people represented in Parliament and women adequately represented, and professionals adequately represented. Yesterday I presented a sociological study where Ukrainian society went much further than Ukrainian parliamentarians: about 70% of Ukrainian citizens say that the principle of democracy is that a woman in Ukraine has the highest positions in power, and not only did we congratulate her on Valentine's Day or March 8. So, I think this bill is the first very important step towards the fact that only in 2011 will the Ukrainian Parliament see 20 percent of women in the Ukrainian Parliament. Moreover, I am absolutely convinced that we are witnessing today a situation that is not just from the point of view of professionalism, but from the point of view of tolerance, I will envy the 2011 MPs when they are there.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u59	It's clear who's going to be jealous, but let's give Jacob a word on this. I already told you, Jacob.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u60	Dear colleagues. Mikola Yakovina, Ukrainian Republican Party “Cobor”, faction “Our Ukraine”. I am pleased to note that the proposed formula is in line with the valid norm of our party statute, the statute of the Ukrainian Republican Party of the Council, regarding equality between men and women. There have been many attempts to resolve this issue. But it was in conflict with a valid Constitution. This is now found by the drafters of the bill to be the norm. It seems that the most balanced, the most acceptable, and no one is discriminated against. I would like it to be a good start. We need to remove many other collegiates in Ukrainian legislation. Eliminate discrimination against women in relation to the right to be in public service. And also, I think it fits both in these walls and in the ruling coalition, and in the current government, remember a tradition that has been constant for several dozen years. In our government, there have always been women in previous governments. It has been so recent that only in the apparatus of local executives and local governments do we see women. In other words, women are remembered when it comes to the laying of soles or asphalt. And I think today we have a good opportunity to correct this discrimination and finally return to the historic Ukrainian tradition of the high social status of women in society, as demonstrated by our ancestors over the centuries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u61	Thank you. Surely your argument would be more convincing to say, “In our faction, there are so many women than our party.” But I realize it's not easy for everyone today, so that's how it is. And Jaduk has a different opinion. I give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u62	We should not only remember but also love women. I give the word to Sulkovski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u63	Please. Well, he's a specialist. Of course he will.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u64	Dear colleagues, really, the question is very important and I'm joining my previous colleague. Thank you for giving me the word. We really don't just have to, and we actually love, we love women, we love Ukraine first. And I encourage and wish everyone the best. Let's look at another aspect of life in society. You see, without exception, virtually all the countries of the world are mostly paying attention to women and they respect them first and expect the whole world to have a beautiful wife, a mother, a housewife, this advantage is naturally given to our beautiful woman. And that's why I don't think anyone is going to be very much against this bill today. But let's look on the other side. If the previous elections were to be held in 2002 under a mixed system, this could really be adopted by this bill. But when elections take place on a proportional basis today, I think that today the conscience of political parties and political forces is in the background. And that's why I don't think there's any point in adopting such a bill today. Any political party will determine, maybe even give more advantage, 60% of its composition, and so on. Why limit one side or another today? That's why I think it's not appropriate to adopt such a bill today, but to expect and want political parties in the future.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u65	Thank you. Everyone who signed up has made a statement. Of course, Paul Gnatovic was persuasive, and his love had a German hue: Kirchen, Knyder, Kücher. So I hope he didn't get into some of the rules. It is not about what a quota should be, but in each five there should be representatives of the same sex. [[Legal status still needs to be defined in second reading]] Because I think there'll be 90 men in the next Parliament, and the rest will be women, maybe. And this will be a form of protection for the rights of men. So I would like the vote to be defined, but I would like to emphasize once again, in the first reading, because all the definitions should be written. I have no right. I'll bet you a vote. [[17:14:29]] For-179 There was an offer for rereading the first reading. I'll bet you a vote. I'll tell you what. For re-reading, please. [[17:14:54]] For-182 This is the same result, by factions personally for MPs, please. Party of regions, 2, Block of Timoshenko, 111. “Ukraine” - 57, Socialists - 10, Communists - 2, non-fractional - 2. In the next session according to the Rules, we have the right to return to this project. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on State Customs is under consideration. [[on the establishment of contracts]] National MP Onichuk Mikola Vasilovich provides information on this matter or reports it. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u66	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, respected citizens of Ukraine, and subjects of entrepreneurial activity, since it is you who are primarily concerned with the bill. Dear colleagues, a very short bill, but it seems to the author to be equally significant. The point is that today, in view of the impreciseness of the decree itself, of the existing decree on State duties, of those who register the undertaking, a single percentage of the declared statutory value is charged in the certification of the establishment contract. We're talking a lot about capitalization now, so that the statutory funds will officially reflect all the assets of the enterprise. We're talking about wanting to go to the stock market. We are talking about what it would be worth to see in statutory funds that are said to be "white" money and "white" assets. But when it comes to registering such changes to the statute, we say entrepreneurs have to pay one percent of the value of such a contract. And the bill, in particular, aims to set a lower rate for customs congregations, including 0.05 percent for certification of such a contract. That is to say, it is the notarial certification of a treaty that is established as a treaty, as is the case, in particular, with valid legislation. The main scientific and legal department and the committee of profile, he will act, supports the bill with minor editorial details. I would also ask you to support this legislative initiative. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u67	Thank you. Mr. Arzvetin Stanislav Mikhailovich, member of the Committee on Finance and Banking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u68	Dear Head, honourable colleagues, the bill proposes to settle questions regarding the determination of the rate of government duty on notarial certification of the establishment of contracts for both natural persons and contracts that are notarized by legal persons at the rate of 0.05 hundred. It should be noted that such a standard was in force until 1 / 01, 2003. But in view of the fact that this was not regulated by valid legislation, the tax inspection since 2003 made a recommendation to notaries to collect a standard percentage: one percent of the amount of the contract. The Committee would like to point out that the application of one per cent of the State rate increases the tax burden on citizens, does not contribute to the development of entrepreneurship in the creation of new business entities, does not stimulate investment activities and, above all, citizens and does not correspond to the development of the enterprise and to the improvement of the investment climate in the country, as well as the laws on State support for small business by Presidential decrees to remove restrictions on the development of entrepreneurial activities, measures to ensure entrepreneurial activity, etc. The Chief Expert Office supports this proposal, and even in the development of the norm-setting idea, Deputy Onischuk suggested that the rule should be put within the limits of establishing and extending it to the establishment of founding contracts, other establishing documents of legal persons. On the basis of the above, the Committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine accept as a basis and, in general, the above-mentioned draft with the additions of the Chief Scientific and Expert Office, which are in agreement with Deputy Onischuk. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u69	Please, who wants to make a statement if necessary? The first reading proposes the adoption of a draft law. I'll put it to a vote. [[17:20:32]] For 331 In the first reading, the law was passed. I don't put it in a second reading, because there have been comments from the expert committee on the management and the proposals of the deputies. The draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine is under consideration. [[on the regulation of the activities of banks]] And this is what National MP Yuri Mikolaiovich Voropeyev will report.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u70	You have before you the bill, the work of our colleagues, 2248, which proposes to amend a number of Ukrainian laws, including the Banking and Banking Act, the National Bank of Ukraine Act, a number of other Ukrainian laws. The main objective and objective that we have pursued in the drafting of this bill is to make our banks transparent to society and, above all, to the National Bank as a single State supervisory body, which controls the banking system in order to prevent the creation and use of the banking system by criminal organizations and criminal money. In addition, the bill provides for the elimination of a number of contradictions that currently exist between a number of laws. I'm paying attention to what's behind this need. In 2003, at the beginning of the year, in a number of foreign countries, Ukrainian banks'corsages were halted because there was a suspicion that criminal money was being used in our banks due to insufficient financial monitoring. And declarations have been drawn up. Committees that asked us to amend the legislation. An order was issued by the President of Ukraine, who had promised to amend banking legislation and had been ordered to do so. But the mandate was not implemented, only one decree of the National Bank was issued, which introduced financial monitoring in commercial banks and nothing else. We are faced with the fact that, at present, we are once again in mass order to eliminate banks. Here I have received a statement from the Ukrainian strike committee, which organized the indefinite pick-up of the National Bank of Ukraine and there with a variety of hangings and demands, including a requirement for us law-makers to avoid the creation of banks with unclean criminal money.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u71	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Sergey Petrovich of the committee was sneezing. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u72	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues! In my report, I would like to point out in general that the Committee has decided to support the initiative of the people's deputies of Ukraine, our colleagues Voropaev, Ahemtova and Vilkula, which aim at legalizing the state registration of banks in accordance with special legislation in the field of State registration, improving bank supervision by identifying and setting special requirements for real bank owners. Organization of external audit of the bank, strengthening the protection of creditors'rights and ensuring the proper liability of borrowers for non-payment of loans provided by banks, ensuring internal financial monitoring in order to prevent the bank from using proceeds obtained through criminal means. I would like to refer to two comments on the bill, which were made by the Ukrainian people's deputies during the Committee's consideration, and which should be settled in the preparatory process for second reading. The proposed amendments to the bank registration procedure proposed by the bill to the local authorities, the expansion and strengthening of supervision requirements for their real owners, the external audit procedure and financial monitoring are needed. Therefore, a working group has already been set up for second reading, which is currently editing the second reading and would like to note the constructive approach of the drafters of the bill and the members of the Committee on Finance and Banking, the position of the Association of Ukrainian Banks and also the position of the National Bank of Ukraine. He was also a member of the Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u73	Literally half-phrase, let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u74	The members of the Committee were also invited to divide the bill into a number of projects, which would allow for a simpler procedure. The Committee recommends that the bill be adopted on the basis and that the Committee's observations be taken into account in the preparation for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u75	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Write down who wants to say "yes" and "against". Yehanurov and Lazko. Yehanur's microphone. Ah, he's handing over Arjevetine. Please. Thank you, Yuri Ivanovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u76	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. This morning, as head of the Association of Ukrainian Banks, I convinced my colleagues from the faction “Our Ukraine” that we would support this bill in the first reading only if we had previously agreed to this bill from the National Bank tomorrow that some of the principles of position would be substantially changed. I would like to remind the honourable MPs that it was the MPs who had called the previous call that rejected the same proposals because they could actually have brought systemic problems and complications to the banking system, if you like, crisis phenomena. I think that the rules, the new regulatory policy of the National Bank, are unclear today, which make it very difficult to make changes to statutory documents and other documents. Among other things, the last ten years of bankers’ meetings have raised the issue of the National Bank’s imperfect regulatory policy of making changes. This does not allow for the rapid capitalization of commercial banks, but in terms of fierce competition with foreign bank branches. This will significantly weaken our domestic banks. It is not clear why these positions today and the proposals are interfering with the operational activities of commercial banks, why commercial banks should work outside the working time when the National Bank is being audited. It's not clear why a rule like capital adequacy and such very, very many positions are excluded from the law. But once again, we're going to be supporting the first reading just because we've been assured that the second reading we're going to change these proposals substantially. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u77	Thank you. Easy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u78	Sergey Petrovich, you remember that I am speaking to Clovis in the morning when we discussed the draft decree on the council of Nazbank, I said that in our faction many specialists on these issues. Unfortunately, they're obviously working on bills to improve the banking system. And that's why I'm going to say a few words about it. Dear Mr. Arjevetin, there is such a wonderful Ukrainian saying: the promise is a doll, and the fool is a joy. So, those promises that before the second reading, they're going to work on this bill, and it's going to help improve the work of banks, they're not worth anything. And I remember that you personally made an effort not to accept this bill, and you were aspiring to me too. And today we hear from you that you've made your decision. What and Who Are You Dealing With? With those who are just cheating? We have to give due respect to the so-called Anti-Crist Coalition -- the people who follow there are gathered. First they bury savings and “Ukreximbank”, today they take over the board of the National Bank and today, after lunch only at the session, they propose to amend legislation that will allow banks to take over, complicate their work, that is, people are going to work systematically. And you're suggesting they vote for it? By no means can we vote and support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u79	Please summarize our discussion according to the Rules. Oleg, not the fool, but the stupid Ukrainian sounds like that. This is more accurate in the context of the discussion. And today the Party of Regions cannot control the supervisory board, for there are four representatives of the 14 members of the Supervisory Board. And I don't think they can do that. Yeah, that's different, that's different. The proposal was made: The first reading of this project. And I think that Stanislaw Arjevetin's speech was convincing in this respect. That's what banks need. I was at the bankers ’ convention, and they talked about such a need. Please support in the first reading. [[17:31:33]] For 239. Decision taken. Thank you. Well, look at the factions. People are good, there's no broadcast now! Who needs my information in this regard, how do you see it? Look, and you'll see everything. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Act on the State Privatization Programme. [[on privatization of leased state property]] As reported by John Sidorovich Boki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u80	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, your opinion is proposed by the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Privatization Program. [[on privatization of leased state property]] The bill is designed to improve relations in the area of privatization of leased state property established by the State Privatization Programme 2000-2002. The main objective of the project is to achieve the maximum effective return on the privatization of state immovable property leased. The project is proposed in the first sentence of paragraph 51 of the Act on the State Privatization Programme to change the conditions under which the tenant is entitled to the purchase of the leased state property in the event of its immediate improvement. Also in order to ensure fair market value of leased property, it is proposed to change the type of valuation that will result in the valuation of the value of the leased property. In particular, the tenant gets the right to purchase leased property if it improves the value of not less than 50% of the market value of the property determined by an independent valuation for rent purposes, rather than 25% of the residual value, as was the case with today's law. The adoption of the bill will ensure the further development and improvement of the privatization of state property leased, the sale of such property at market prices, which will increase the revenue from privatization to the State budget of Ukraine, which is very important to us. Please support the bill and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u81	Thank you. Chechtov Mikhailo Vasilovich has the floor, please, from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u82	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Draft Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on the State Privatization Program introduced by the People's Deputies Boki and Spodarenko. [[on privatization of leased state property]] The bill provides for changes to paragraph 51 of the State Privatisation Programme for 2000-2002, which sets out a mechanism for privatizing leased state property, which, according to the renter, is improved by a renter at the expense of his own funds at least 25% of the residual value of such property. The project proposes to change the terms and conditions under which the tenant is entitled to the purchase of the leased state property in the event of its immediate improvement, as well as to ensure that the fair value of the leased property is determined, is changed from the valuation of the value of the leased property. In particular, the tenant will have the right to purchase the leased property if it improves the value of not less than 50% of the market value of the property, i.e. the plank rises twice, from 25 to 50 percent, as determined by an independent valuation for rent purposes. The Chief Scientific and Expert Authority of the Supreme Council notes that the first reading of the bill can be based on a basis. The Committee on Economic Policy proposes that the bill be adopted in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u83	Are they willing to comment on this? They're desirable. Bondar one, that's why I give him my word. Please. And you want to? Wait a minute. Sign up, please, because there are many who want to. You'll be performing, three more men can perform. Wait a minute, don't talk. Okay, thanks. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u84	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, there are now six draft laws on privatization in one block. Five are socialist authors, six are from "Our Ukraine" and from BET. I'd like to report to the next one, because we may not be able to make it. I have a request. Or continue for 15 minutes so we can.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u85	Wait a minute. I announce a 15 - minute extension of the session in connection with the situation mentioned by Alexander Mikolayovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u86	Yeah. That it's one block so we can finish it today. And essentially the bill. I'm speaking on behalf of the faction and the Privatization Control Commission, which has considered this bill at its meeting. We agreed not to support this bill for such reasons. First of all, an expert assessment is carried out in the rental of rented property. If this property is purchased by a tenant, an expert assessment is again carried out. There is no point in conducting a third expert evaluation to determine 50 percent of improvements. It's a different situation. Rents are already on the table. A small medium-sized business that mainly works on non-residential leases already has plans, prospects for the purchase of these premises, and they count on 25 percent of the remaining value being paid and entitled to a ransom. If we change this order of contracts now in one-sided order, we're going to create an unfavourable environment for medium and small business. This was pointed out by the Scientific and Experimental Authority when it said that it was necessary to postpone the deadline for the entry into force of this law. I would suggest that this law should not apply at all to the already concluded leases. Sadly, though, there is no such thing in this law. And what's important is that it doesn't solve the issue of expert valuation when it buys out rented property, because experts estimate that they can determine the cost of leased property is transferred to an expert rating much higher than 50% before they made 25 at a residual cost. So I'd like to think very carefully about whether it's worth making these changes and making some misunderstandings about a small, medium-sized business that basically rents real estate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u87	Kirilenko. Kirilenko. Oh, you passed on Bondar. Okay. Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u88	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear Alexander Aleksandrovich, honourable deputies, today this law on changes to the State Privatization Program gives us an opportunity to increase the state budget. Today, we have the opportunity to make the purchase of government property at market prices, not at nominal prices, as was the case in most cases. We have the opportunity to have this money go to the State Budget, not to the pockets of those in charge. And we're adopting amendments to encourage today's tenant to invest 50% in improving the value of the leased property, rather than bankrupting it so that it can then be purchased at the remaining cost. Today this is an effective I think an effective return on the privatization of state property that is currently on lease. This is the adoption of the law, and we are improving the mechanism for privatizing the leased state property, which, according to the renter, is being improved by the renter at the expense of his own funds and raising the bill from 25 per cent to 50 per cent today, I think it is necessary to support and increase the revenue to the State budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u89	Pisarenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u90	Valerius Pisarenko, faction of Yulia Timoshenko. Dear colleagues, let's get to the bottom of this law. What do we propose? As a rule, the tenants of such premises, I think the holding fund can confirm, there's a medium and small business that even today lives a penny in cash and plans to develop its business. Today, we want to renegotiate all the leases that have been made so far. We should not forget that the right to a ransom is not realized in itself. In order for it to be implemented by the renter, first of all, you need to get such permission to make improvements and to reconcile even the cost of the item and, accordingly, at this stage, you have to have permission to buy this facility. Today we want to put small and medium-sized businesses back on their knees by this law. Let's go to this law with a more balanced approach, and we're going to reject it today to support the development of small and medium-sized businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u91	Valentina Petrovna Seminouk is head of the Holding Foundation.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my position on the State Property Fund. And of course, I want to say that today, by renting out the holding fund of Ukraine, it is clearly following the mechanisms not only to pay rent and to buy out such appropriate objects. And when we're talking about market economy, market relations, why we're talking about what we're going to buy by nominal. If we are saying that we have a budget, a proven figure, then we should talk about what competitive principles should be when we enter into lease agreements and market conditions for the redemption of the corresponding objects. Because here in this situation, the authors of the bill are right that this might apply, but the law has no reverse force. And here I support what Bondar said, it will not apply to those objects that were previously concluded, because there are 22 articles of the Constitution of Ukraine. The second question we're talking about today is that there's clear control in the assessment, and that makes it possible, not at the nominal, but at the real price, at the point of redemption. Nevertheless, according to the law on evaluation, evaluation, and mission, this should be done because it is provided for by appropriate documents. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. When we said that the social budget, we've set the right standard and we say, "market relations," we have to make market relations, we've got to use them all, and we've got to buy property on competitive grounds, not nominally, but at the real price that's on the market. Otherwise, we're just going to say that the budget is not going to come properly. So I ask you to support this bill in the first reading. And the comments that will be made, we will consider them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u93	I ask you to reconsider your vote. We have today, subsuming the conclusion of this discussion. In Kiev, dozens of examples, when semi-dwelling facilities are used to rent specific people, do not put their money there, but wait for opportunities to dispose of this property, rent, or otherwise. Today, this law is an incentive, rent, invest money if you want to have your perks. Then, please go to the contest, sell when you acquire such rights. So I think the proposal from the authors is absolutely convincing. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. The draft law is put to the vote in the first reading. [[17:44:53]] For 219 The decision is not taken. The voices were not enough. I propose that this law be corrected for re-reading, please make up your mind. Please, there's a vote. [[17:45:19]] For 238. Decision taken. The draft Law on the State Program of Government and Municipal Property Management for 2006-2008 is under consideration. As reported by John Sidorovich Boki. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u94	Dear Head! Dear National Deputies! The draft law of Ukraine on the State Program of Government and Municipal Property Administration, which we offer together with the National Deputies of Matvienkov and former colleague Vasil Petrovich Tsushk, proposes a new approach in principle to ensure the effective use of state and municipal property, the approval of an integrated programme in the administration of this property. In our view, this program is an organic extension of the Ukrainian Act on the Management of State Property Objects, which was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine in September 2006. The main objective of the Government's Public and Municipal Property Management Programme is to change the ideology of approach to privatization, to make it equivalent to other ways of managing government property such as corporate governance, rent, and so on. That is, the definition of privatization, not as reform, but as one way of managing state and municipal property. At the same time, such an approach will in no way reduce the state budget's revenue from privatization. The adoption of the State Programme will allow for the analysis of the degree of ownership in Ukraine as a whole and in every field, in particular with a view to determining the optimal structure of state and municipal property to address issues of social protection of the population of Ukraine. Establish a system for monitoring the efficiency and soundness of management decisions in the area of public and municipal property management. Increase the responsibility of owners for the efficiency of production and the provision of necessary social standards, improve and expand the system for the operation of a single register of property by filling in its information on municipal property. Please note that in due time, the State has donated tens of thousands of objects to the community without giving them to the local authorities.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u95	Finish up, 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u96	The mechanism for managing these objects leads to an opaque use of them. The lack of such a mechanism can, in general, lead to the disappearance of municipal property. Please note that in the course of the review of the Government Committee on Economic Policy, the conclusion of support for the draft law has been approved, and in addition, taking into account the appeals made by many national deputies, the drafters agree that the need for the removal at this stage of the draft programme of section 5 of the return of objects to state and municipal property has been met. Please support the bill in the first reading by deleting section 5 of this program.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u97	Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich of the committee has the floor.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u98	Dear Alexander Alexander! People's Honourable Deputies! I would like to express the opinion of the Economic Policy Committee, which, at its meeting, proposes that the Supreme Council reject this bill, also proposes the Chief Scientific and Experimental Authority and the Government. Set the stage for this. We have the Constitution, the legislation provides for the approval of the National Privatization Programme each year. The drafter of the bill is making changes that are designed not to approve the State Privatisation Programme but to approve the State Governance Programme. Where chapter one goes to management, then the register goes, then the rent goes, only 4 points go to privatization, and the 5 most interesting chapter is the nationalization of the state-owned utility property, which, by the way, is now being proposed to be removed, but only in the second reading. Therefore, the position of the committee is clear, the bill cannot be supported and must be rejected. I would like to remind you that the ideology of privatization has been written for 15 years, and when national MPs try to change it, we need to think very carefully about where this will lead. For this reason, the State Privatization Program was designed. In order to give the body the task of privatizing for a year of objects, to provide the mechanisms for carrying out this task, and to provide the amount of funds to the budget. If you are making the State Privatization Program a section of the government’s government program, at least indicate the task of the State Property Fund for a year to be sold, in what amount and how much to send to the budget. And to write a government programme to introduce new legislation, there are privatization programmes, a government property management programme, and there is the Law on the administration of municipal property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u99	Who is there, who wants to make a statement? Please sign up. Pisarenko, please. Out of the way.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u100	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, I think it is clear today that these bills that we are considering after privatization cannot be considered in a simplified procedure because they are quite important and important and should be considered more normally. So I propose, as we can see, these bills are not coming through today, and I thank the Communist Party for that, yes, for not voting for these laws today. I ask you to consider now the question of moving to a vote on the following laws and to vote in favour of transposition into the next plenary week of privatization laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u101	I ask you to pay attention to this detail. We're essentially looking at these bills. If there is no positive decision, we will consider the transfer of consideration. But the talk was essentially about Alexander Mikolaiovich in this regard. I mean, we have the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers on the administration of property in public property, and that didn't raise any objections. Today, it turns out that this is not a matter of concern. And on the second call, we took a decision by the Supreme Council that all the decrees were transformed into law, into a form of law, because there was no such rule in the Constitution. And if there is a need to improve these legal standards during the transformation, they need to be addressed. What does the Maintenance Fund think about this, please?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u102	Dear colleagues! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! I want to say that the State Property Fund supports this program of government property management. And remember, dear friends, 308 votes we voted in favour of the adoption of the Law “On Managing Objects of State Property. During our 15th year of independence, we mentioned that in order for the State to secure its functional responsibilities, there must also be objects of state ownership that we must manage. Even this room that we're in refers to the state form of property. We need to think today that the state can provide its functional responsibilities as a result of receiving dividends, and this is in line with the budget, rent, and so forth. So the program allows us today to see how the utility property used by government property is used effectively. You often meet in the districts, and you're told that it's inefficiently managed. But no one has ever done such effective management. Today, the Prime Minister of Ukraine has given a mandate to the holding fund. We hold congregations in all businesses, we carry out the Governing Law. The program will provide an opportunity for local governments as well, and for all the MPs, the councils of different levels will have direction in effective use of both municipal and state property. I think this is the document that will allow us to actually report to people today. The drafters delete article 5 if it is contradictory. We accept without article 5, the cheek of chapter five, take as a foundation, and sit together to work together. There can't be the level of capitalization that we have today. 22 percent of the property remained in the hands of the state. Let us at least save what can be saved, and we will effectively manage what belongs to all the people of Ukraine today, for otherwise we will simply have no prospect. There is no free market. The state should draw up and have different forms of property that compete with each other, that the state, which is communal, which is private, while selecting the appropriate administrative personnel. We have a staff management academy with the President of Ukraine today. These are the people who can come and manage effectively state and municipal property. You and I should be responsible for this. I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u103	Thank you. Take the line later, yeah. Please, I'm putting this project to the vote for adoption in the first reading, I emphasize, in the first reading. Please, there's a vote. [[17:55:49]] For-31 There's a proposal to send this project for re-examination in the first reading. I'm betting on the vote on this proposal. [[17:56:12]] For-35 This proposal is not supported either. I'm proposing to the drafters, in accordance with the Rules, you can redraft this bill and re-submit it in the next session. The issue is being addressed: the draft law on the right of municipal property and the administration of municipal property, the objects of common property of territorial communities. Ivan Sidorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u104	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! Our project with colleagues Tsushko and Danilini of the Law on the Rights of Municipal Property and the Administration of Immunities, the Common Property of the Territorial Communities sets out: objects and entities of municipal property rights, the function of administration of objects of municipal property rights, the authorization of the relevant authorities, the order in which the functions of municipal administration, corporate rights, and the particularity of joint property management, and the legal regime of property of municipal enterprises are transferred. The adoption of the project will enhance economic incentives for the administration of municipal property rights and improve the adaptation of such relations to market conditions. The subject of regulation of the bill is the definition of a scheme for the administration of property rights and common property of territorial communities. The drafters realize that he needs harmonization and some further work. We're willing to do this with the profile committee if it's supported in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u105	Please, the committee's opinion. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u106	Alexandre Alexandrovich, you didn't give me your word for replication. I have made a statement, not my own opinion, but the opinion of the committee, as the head of the subcommittee, the opinion of the Scientific and Experimental Department and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. And I ask my opinion as an expert not to comment after that. I was saying there's no such thing as replacing the State Privatization Program with a government property management program. There are laws about governance, about municipal property, they decide all of these questions. Now essentially this bill. Once again, I stress that there is a committee decision that I report that the committee is proposing that the draft be sent to the subject of the right of legislative initiative for further development. There is the opinion of the Chief Science and Export Authority, who also believes that this project should be sent to the authors. And I report that. I want to say that this bill has incorporated all the laws that exist on state property, municipal property, introduces a new terminology that should be in state property, which is in municipal property, and contradicts many of the laws that exist in this regard. If we want to bring the order in this area, I think the Cabinet of Ministers should pass a separate law that will generalize the entire legislative framework on this issue, not a separate national MP. Then it will be logical, supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, and we will gladly vote on it. That's all I wanted to tell you. So the committee's idea is to send for work.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u107	Have a seat, please. Are there other thoughts in the MPs? None. I'm voting on a proposal by the committee to refer this project to work. Please. [[18:00:12]] For 253 Decision taken. A draft Law on National Acquisitions and Other Property, which can be held exclusively in state or municipal property. Reported by the national deputy of Matvienkov. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u108	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues! Well, first of all, this law answers the most important question: What do we want from privatization? Is this a mechanism for earning money or a mechanism for finding an effective owner? The draft law contains a list of types of objects that may be exclusively in the form of State ownership, in particular natural resources, facilities that ensure that the State fulfils its functions, ensure the defenceability of the State, its economic independence, facilities that ensure the vitality of the State as a whole and so forth. A certain limitation is also imposed on the possession, use and management of such property. Take, for example, natural resources. We are talking a lot today about the inefficiency of our industries. But if you'll excuse me, the privatisation of Krusprom: we privatized some facilities that were in use, but land resources! Having a third place today in possession of iron ore products, the country faces a dilemma from which to import iron ore. So when will we begin to solve the problems so that our privatization processes of national governance are aimed at improving the country's economic performance rather than at enriching one or two clans? Therefore, we have drafted a bill proposing that this belongs to the Power, that it belongs to the entire Ukrainian people, that it should work for the economy as a whole and be regulated in such a way that it works as a mechanism for improving the economy of the State as a whole. I understand there are some nuances, some inadequacies in this bill. Therefore, we suggest that it be adopted as a basis in the first reading. We are prepared to develop it into a second reading so that we can actually build up the fence and the foundation so that we do not embalm State property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u109	Thank you. Bondar Alexander Mikolaiovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u110	I have such a destiny today that I report from the committee all the bills that the committee's decision, the Science and Experimental Authority and the Cabinet of Ministers propose to reject. This bill contradicts an article in the Constitution that defines objects that can be exclusively state-owned utilities, namely: the 13th, the 14th article of the Constitution. The Science and Experimental Authority is proposing this bill in order to reject it. The Economic Policy Committee, taking into account the opinion of the Cabinet of Ministers, the Scientific and Expert Department, that this law contradicts article 13, article 124, article 7 of the Ukrainian Forest Code, article 60 of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government, proposes to reject this bill. And I'm stressing again. If such an urgent problem exists in the State, which requires the codification of national acquisitions, it is the prerogative of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. He's the only one who can put together the entire legislative base, identify it, and submit the project. People's deputies cannot submit such principles to parliament that we simply have to reject. Not because we treat them that way, but because they contradict the existing Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u111	What is the reasoning on this matter with the deputies? Don't they want to speak to the MPs? I'd like to make one comment. The subjects of the legislative initiative in the Supreme Council of Ukraine are each deputy. That's why he has the right to submit any bill to the Supreme Council. And the analysis that he's doing about property systems that refer to state, municipal or other forms of property or private property, by the way, is referred to in the 13th article of the Constitution, and not to what was said, can be passed on by a MP to anyone. So I would ask you not to make such generalizations. The government makes its views known on this point. They're here, by the way, in the previous law that we've been looking at, and now. So I'm voting on the proposal for adoption in the first reading of this bill. And we'll continue to vote accordingly. Please. [[6:05:17]] For-50 The decision is not taken. There was an offer to send for the work, a proposal to the committee. I'm voting on this proposal. Please. [[18:05:39]] For 238. Decision taken. Thank you. Draft Act amending certain laws of Ukraine. [[on improving State property alienation procedures]] Report by Bugajec Anatoly Aleksandrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u112	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. A bill to amend certain laws of Ukraine has been drafted to ensure the effective alienation of State property and protection of the interests of the State. [[on improving State property alienation procedures]] The project is intended to amend the laws of Ukraine entitled “Prosecution”, “On executive conduct”, “On the recovery or recognition of the debtor’s ability to pay,” “On the order of payment of taxpayers’ obligations to budgets and trust funds”, “On the legal regime of property in the Armed Forces of Ukraine”. The draft law provides for the introduction of the sale of state property, which is in lieu, including tax, in the course of executive conduct, bankruptcy and liquidation in accordance with privatization legislation, such as property on the balance sheet of the company, but not in its statutory fund. There is also a ban on moving to a new owner without permission from the Ukrainian State Property Fund, property for objects that are not subject to privatization under valid legislation. One of the main features of the project is the order of alienation of immovable military property, including military towns carried out by the State Property Fund of Ukraine, as well as surplus arms and military special equipment in the order determined by the Cabinet of Ministers. The adoption of this law will protect the State’s property interests, establish the sole procedures for alienation, ensure transparency and openness. Please support this bill in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u113	Thank you, please sit down. Bondar? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u114	Alexander Aleksandrovich, I have to start by breaking the Rules again, even though you asked me not to teach you how to use the Rules. I'm reporting the committee's decision. You're supposed to put him to the vote. The committee's decision on all previous reports was rejected. You put to the vote in the first reading, the result is the same, but you make the first read again when you decide to reject the committee. I understand these are the authors of your faction. Well, you can't treat the Rules like that. Now on this point. I'm reporting the committee's decision again. The Economic Policy Committee supported a similar bill by a socialist colleague named Matviyenkov, who deals with all these issues. I don't understand why we should be passing another bill from this faction on the same subject. And the committee's decision is perfectly normal, according to the fact that we supported the Matvienkov project, which was adopted in the first reading, which will work, was suggested to send the drafters this bill for work to take them into account in the second reading in the Matvienkov project. I don't understand what a bad committee I'm reporting on has done. Nevertheless, it is suggested that we accept it in the first reading. There will be two bills on this subject. And how will Parliament work? I would ask that we still put the committee's decision to the vote and take these rules into account the Bill of the Plenipotentiary on the second reading of the Matvienkov project, which is with you in one faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u115	I would also like to draw attention to a discussion that, in my view, is completely unfounded and does not need to waste time on it. The author of the bill insists on considering his question and suggests that he vote in the first reading. He's entitled to it, it's his legislative initiative, it's wired here. The proposal is made, it's voted. We're not supported, we're putting a second option, including the committee's decision. And it's a perfectly regular procedure. So I'd like to ask, let's not discuss this. Are there people willing to discuss this issue? Please, the Dry One wants to speak. One minute he's asking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u116	Thank you. Jaroslav Suchy, Zaporozhye, Party of Regions Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the deputies of the fourth convocation. You and I have made changes to article 54 of the Ukrainian Law on Implementing Implementation. Remember, at the time, we discussed with you the problem that applies, namely, that debt on a salary when it was necessary to make a commitment to repay this debt could not be imposed on a state - owned enterprise. We made changes to article 54, to a number of items, such as the new part 3 and then we wrote "About Executive Implementation". They said you could impose a tax if there's a debt on your salary. Because it was one of the mechanisms to make the business go dark and not pay the wages. Bankruptcy, shadow, and wages were not paid, and the people had executive sheets on their hands. That is why this bill must certainly be rejected.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u117	If the authors do not object to the committee's proposals against sending this document for further processing, then I will put the matter to the vote. They don't deny it. So I'm voting on the committee's proposal to send this project to work. [[18:12:12]] For 326 Decision taken. And finally, a bill amending some Ukrainian laws on privatization. Bondar Alexander Mikolayovich on the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u118	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I think that this bill will be voted by all factions because I am his author and Deputy Cosemiakin, we propose very small legislative changes on privatization, which will deprive the State Property Fund of Ukraine of setting up additional conditions for the contests that envision the winner of the competition in advance before it begins. It's a simple solution. The Law on Small Privatization, on Privatization of State Property and on the State Privatization Programme introduces a change that prohibits the Fund from establishing additional conditions in competitions. And then there's all the terms of the competition that were meant to be, and the technical re-arms, and the environmental performance, and all that. Moreover, according to strategic objects, where more than 50 per cent is sold, where the term “industrial investor” is used, this right is given not by the Holding Fund, but by the Cabinet of Ministers. Why am I sure this law will be supported by all factions? Because it's supported by the Cabinet of Ministers, the Committee of Economic Policy, the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. And I want you, Alexander Alexanderovich, to put to the vote the decision of the committee to report to Chechtev, to support him as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u119	Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u120	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Privatisation Laws of Ukraine by People’s Deputies Bondarm and Kozemjakin proposes to amend the Ukrainian laws on privatization of small state enterprises, small privatization, privatization of state property and an active state privatization programme. In particular, the project proposes to prohibit privatization authorities from establishing additional conditions for buyers to participate in auctions and competitions and to transfer the right to approve the qualification requirements for open-trade participants from the State Property Fund to the Cabinet of Ministers. The project is proposed to be supported because it improves the legal settlement in the privatization process, gives them greater transparency, expands the range of potential investors, resulting in a possible increase in costs from privatization to the State budget. The Economic Policy Committee proposes to the Supreme Council of Ukraine to adopt a draft Ukrainian law amending some Ukrainian laws on privatization in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u121	Please, who wants to make a statement? Any suggestions? Quick, please. And Bondarchuk signed up. Speak up, Hiccup.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u122	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. I think there's some kind of action going on here that's going to create the State Property Fund and turn it into a kiosk or a lotto. So he's like a fund that has no power over government property, and they're just going to tell him that it's about that price, about that price, and so on and so forth, and the fund is just going to be handing it over from hand to hand. But this is all happening from what? Since we have not yet adopted the Law on the State Property Fund. If we accepted it, the State Property Fund, we wouldn't be able to treat it so freely, what to do and how, and so on. I think why is the Cabinet of Ministers here? The Cabinet of Ministers can't have anything to do with this, because then there's no need to have a State Property Fund, there's got to be some authority that's going to have the Cabinet of Ministers just collect money for the property sold and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u123	Please. I'm asking for your attention! Calm down! Bondarchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u124	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, I fully support my colleague Šibk and propose that we postpone the consideration of this issue to later or send him back for further work, so that we can return to his consideration after the adoption of the Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Indeed, we have a fund as the central authority of the state, which should not only do technical functions there, but also do politics in the area of privatization. That is why I am calling on my colleague from the faction of the Party of the Regions to vote in favour of sending this bill for re-reading and returning to it after the adoption of the Act on the State Property Fund of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-01-11-m1.u125	I'm going to put a motion to the vote first by the committee and then by your proposal. First. That's different. In summary of this brief discussion, I want to say. It happened by accident, of course, that there were previous heads of the State Property Fund on the rostrum, who organized the auctions on special terms for most of the objects, and now they say: The Fund should not intervene further in this process. So that's what we should be thinking about. In the meantime, I would like to make a proposal to the adoption committee on the first reading of this project. Please, in the first reading, because there is a point to it. Please. [[18:18:32]] For 380 Decision taken. Announcing the conclusion of the evening session. The meeting tomorrow will continue at 10 a.m. Please. Once again, Alexander Mikolayovich Bondarou, the Rules stipulate that if there are comments to the project in the first reading, the MPs have been formally expressed, I do not have the right to place the second. For the final vote again, more loyally. Read the Rules and then present your claims!
