ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u1	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council, members of the Cabinet of Ministers, journalists, guests of the Supreme Council, radio audiences, TV sets! Today, April 3, we continue in accordance with the Constitution of Parliament's work. I'm asking the deputies to prepare for registration. A roll call is being made. [[10:02:55]] There are 260 national deputies registered in the hall. I declare the session closed, what we did yesterday, but we ended it with a simple break. And the morning session of Parliament is announced. Today is the birthday of the National Deputies: Bondarchuk Ivan Mikolaiovich and Kucherenko Alexija Yuriovich Let's welcome them with this event. [[Applause]] In order of the announcement, I also reiterate that in the work of the Parliamentary Meeting, the Cabinet of Ministers is in charge of Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovic. [[Applause]] According to the 25th article of the Rules on Tuesday, we have 30 minutes for the presentations of authorized factions with proposals, announcements, statements, messages. It's possible to use this time 5 minutes to perform. I'm asking you to sign up. For now. Let's write down those who want to come out of factions. Please. Yes, Sergey the Head of the faction “Our Ukraine”. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u2	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished national MPs! I want to say a few words, my opinion, my view of what's going on. First, I participate in the meetings of the Supreme Council, because I know that European Parliamentary Practice does not recognize the absence of an MP in the session room who does not have his political views and beliefs. There is no way that the opposition is not in the hall and does not exercise its right to speak, criticize, draft laws and other parliamentary activities. This is unacceptable when there is no opposition in the hall. Surely the opposition that was not present must have wanted to exacerbate the political crisis. I said that on several channels and journalists: I don't like much of what happened in the last, I'd say, months after the parliamentary elections that they were. I don't like it, Victor Fedorovich, and partly or possibly the composition of your office, and what ministers, deputy ministers and many of them are doing in the office, how the country's garbage is going on. I don't like it as politics, as a national MP. I also hate that not all Ukrainians voted in favour of the genocide or famine of the genocide of the Ukrainian nation. I can't understand how a patriot Ukrainian can't admit this historic fact. I don't like anything else politically. But most of all, I don't like it when the head of state shows an example that you can trample on the Constitution. What can be asked of ordinary citizens? So if I don't politically like what's going on in executive power and I don't like the way political views are expressed by the coalition, then I don't like the political, but basically in civic, professional, as a lawyer, as a minister of justice, who was in three governments, I don't like the President's words about the rule of law, it's just a red word. The rule of law is when the President's decree makes a clear reference to an article of the Constitution. There are no 90 articles in this decree. The rule of law can't go on a wall with unknown consequences. Supremeity cannot if the wall on the wall, as a result, can give at least one drop of blood. The rule of law cannot be when there is no morality, but Christian morality says that there can be no politics in a terrible week. There can be no such thing as abusing Ukraine, a Christian Ukraine, on the first day of the terrible week. [[Applause]] And there's Wednesday, there's the day of Judah, and then there's the clear Thursday, and then there's the hot Friday. And all Ukraine is preparing for the greatest holiday for every Christian — Easter. And this week it's going to be Ukrainian Easter. For the first time, perhaps in all years of independence, Ukraine has been placed in a situation where it does not think about eternal, holy, moral, and God but thinks, and who will prevail in this war? No matter what the cost. I would like the President to take a step back, and I would like Parliament and the government to take a step back. I would like this to be a step towards resolving the political and legal conflict by peaceful, legal means through political dialogue. I spoke to colleagues from the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe today. I asked them to support the request of the Supreme Council for urgent debates on the Ukrainian issue in Strasbourg in the first two weeks. Because the Council of Europe in this situation can play its role as a role that will call on the parties to dialogue to seek political compromise in order to avoid the worst. This is my political and public.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u3	Thank you. Instead of Kozuba, the word is given to Richter by the faction “Party of the Regions”. She'll be followed by Samuel.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u4	Dear Mr. Head! Dear Prime Minister, members of the government! Dear colleagues! Representatives of the media! I have to address everyone today with such a talk. The opposition led by the Yulia bloc, Timoshenko, initiated and formed a conflict that, with the participation of the President of Ukraine, is becoming a national crisis. The opposition demands an election review to the Ukrainian Parliament, thus justifying its inability to form political power by the results of the parliamentary elections in Ukraine. There is a great danger that it can and has already convinced the head of the State to take sides with the political minority. Historical analogys in this case have always led to civil opposition and weakening statehood. There is no democracy when the President takes a minority's side and turns into a hot instrument in her hands. Today’s events deliberately push the country into a hopeless situation, since the Constitution is not implemented but is used to manipulate public consciousness. As the torches before the President, it is juggled by those in the minority today who do not have substantial political support for the Ukrainians. It raises acute concern about the pathological thirst for power and its political life, based on the principle of “authority — for the sake of power” rather than on the service of social orders and the implementation of the national development programme. An eternal revolutionary can never become an effective manager, and this is confirmed by the former presence of present-day opponents in key state offices. I want to talk to everyone, the opposition is as comfortable as possible, and it is not comfortable without constant captures of mail, telegraphs, and railways. The so - called concern of the opposition about the welfare of the people is manifest only in its cynical use to satisfy its sovereign ambitions that lie solely through the courts. So today we have confirmation in 2004, we see clearly who is initiating the national division. If the political majority speaks of national unity, according to better European standards, opposition, as the only sphere for self-implementation, needs a revolutionary field. I am deeply convinced that we need to prove that we are needed by society, not by strong slogans on the ground, but by precisely and carefully performing our opposition functions here in Parliament. The opposition, as a party of war in the environs of the state, is therefore eager and striving for the President's reelection. The opposition is trying to overcome the key bastion, the use by the President-in-Office of its powers as a guarantor of the Constitution and of state sovereignty in the way of achieving the possibility of unrestrained political vaccanalism and of legal status. The early elections are a nonsensus not only from a legal point of view, but from the point of view of their destructive impact on the economy and social and political life, producing disillusionment, fatigue and frustration of citizens in the Ukrainian state as such. If a decision is not made in the constitutional field and is continued, finding an answer in the legal plane is an unappreciative matter. At the same time, we are determined to defend the will of our constituents and to seek a solution exclusively within the framework of the Constitution and the rule of law. Remembering that any volunteerism leads to a crisis, we will act relentlessly within the framework of the Basic Law without going over the provocative line of war. We demand an urgent review of the unconstitutional Presidential Decree on Parliament's early elections by the Constitutional Court. And we are convinced that, as a truly patriotic institution of state authority, the court is working on a day-to-day solution to this issue with the aim of giving an objective, professional and unbiased answer to the most painful questions of Ukrainian today. We urge the President to drop the pressure on the parliamentary majority, the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine. The source of power in Ukraine is the people, and as a guarantor of sovereignty, the President has to listen to the thinking of Ukrainians, most of whom today do not support the conduct of any adventures with early elections. If we are destined to drink to the end of our struggle.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u5	Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u6	Then the final dot here should be made, not by us, but by all men. I would like to propose the following actions: to send a delegation of the Supreme Council to the Council of Europe to invite and ask to convene an urgent meeting of the monitoring committee, to address the Eurocomiser and to invite him to Ukraine, which is responsible for the Ukrainian state. And that's how we're going to communicate with the international community at the round table. I believe that we can appeal to the President urgently to call on the National Security Council, to meet the Prime Minister of the country, the Head of the Supreme Council with representatives of foreign states, with the diplomatic corps today, because the events of yesterday morning were quite different than they are now. And I believe it will be absolutely fair if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs makes a statement that constitutional order is in place in Ukraine, that power is in place, and we will do everything we can to ensure stability and an impartial approach to our laws by all the states that are working together today and have shown a desire to continue working with our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u7	Catherine Samuel has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u8	Dear fellow countrymen, Ukraine in danger, Ukraine, the coup d'état and your fate, the fate of your children, the fate of your grandchildren, the fate of the future at stake. By decree yesterday, the President of Ukraine put himself outside the Constitution of Ukraine, his actions show contempt not only for the basic law of Ukraine, but for the State as a whole, for the choice of the people, for the principles of democratic society proclaimed by the basic law of Ukraine, the principles of legal society. The faction of the Communist Party of Ukraine expresses its concern about the usurpation of power, whereby we understand that the President of Ukraine handed over his authority to the rematches - Timoshenko, Lucenko, Kirilenko. What worries us is that the leader of BUT, when she went to the United States, essentially declared herself an agent of promoting the interests of the United States in the East. I want to ask you a question, this trinity is preparing a Yugoslav version for Ukraine, preparing for Ukraine, really, how the only state is falling apart, and when we're as small as sand, it's easier to deal with us. I want to ask, who gave the right to repeat Yugoslavia? Why the anti - national, anti - state opposition, without the people’s consent, decided to turn Ukraine into another Iraq by sinking our beautiful nation into blood, destroying our talented people. Young people who came to the walls of the Supreme Council of Ukraine today to support constitutional order and our coalition, you came to defend the rule of law, order, you came to protect the integrity of our state! You've come to protect Ukraine's sovereignty! You, in your loyalty and love for Ukraine, have become above the guarantor of the Constitution because you have come to defend the Constitution, Ukraine and your future! You have a higher responsibility than those who have once disgraced Ukraine to the whole world, and now they say that enough money is enough to go to the polls. And it would not be better to pay this money back for social expenses, where Ukrainian citizens, on pensions, on salaries for teachers, for doctors, for scholarships for our children, for free education for higher education institutions! I also want to turn to the grey-headed members of the coalition and the constitutional system in our country. You have built cities, squares, canals, streets, songs, operas, music, and Timoshenko, Kirilenko and Lucenko have never, unlike you, created any talented song, no talented opera, built no terrain! [[Applause]] They're using what you've been building for the future, for their children, for our country with you. They are barren, unable to do anything to make our beautiful state flourish, so that you will feel happy in our country. And that's why I think it's right if, on behalf of the entire coalition, I landhead before you, who drove and walked all night here, to the Supreme Council, to our capital, to say no -- rematch, yes -- constitution, yes -- legal coalition, yes -- to the legitimate government of Ukraine. And that's why I'm also proposing: The President, if you are not the president of the anti-State coalition, but the states of Ukraine, to withdraw their decree, to give work to the government of national unity, to give work to Parliament. And we will prove to the people of Ukraine that the people of Ukraine will truly live a happy life, even from the fact that their nation bears the name Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u9	Before I gave my word to John Bokom, I realized that Catherine Semenovna had a fine mastery of public speaking and as a philosopher. Clearly, she deliberately used the Russian word “yes” instead of “yes”, avoiding certain associations. I understand that, don't I? Then you should say it yourself. Please, Ivan Sidorovich Boki speaking.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u10	It's a faction of socialists. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On this Passionous Week, today is the bright day of the birth of the spiritual father of Ukrainian independence, the great artist of the word Olesia Terentiyovich Potter. I think each of the Ukrainians today will be silent for a moment in front of the bright image of the genius of words. And just before that date, a failed, faithless son of Ukraine Yushchenko carried out his evil plan, committed an official crime: he signed a decree to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. By completely ignoring the Constitution, based on demagogic pseudo-args, he actually betrayed his people. The Constitution was still fought by thieves, bandits. Now the President has come to battle with the Constitution. It's a terrible disgrace, it's a pattern of cosmic deceit. You should have seen and heard yesterday, when he allegedly consulted with us -- the leadership of the Supreme Council and the heads of factions on the subject had long been determined by him to terminate the powers of the Supreme Council. It was something superior, proud, charismatic, with a minima of “missional” choice, I say, a strange mine he made the impression of a full-scale subcontractor of this illegal, anti-constitutional seal of a temporary ally and of an eternal traitor, a fierce fighter for the prime minister's chair, Yulia Timoshenko. She laughed, curved, and radiated the festivities. And together all of this led to a similar situation from a famous folk song: “He married a fool and took the foolish one and did not know what he was doing, set the house on fire.” Yushchenko became a classic Ukrainian hero. The pyroic victory of Timoshenko, Lucenko, and other figurines will be a defeat. Thank God we have a Constitution and a 60th article of the Constitution that allows us not to carry out criminal orders and orders. The banal struggle for new ownership, for the exploitation of power troughs, for the purpose of their own profit, political “humans” are issued for the promotion of popular interests. The machine of dishonor and discreditation of power and the political powers of the governing coalition has been fully involved, and in fact, the information war has been solved with the collapse of mass consciousness and the hanging of labels to achieve a sublime goal — a coup d'état by the election of the Supreme Council. I regret, once again, the awareness of historical guilt and the fact that a bunch of petty political intrigues and provocations have actually taken over the government institution of the President of Ukraine. Fearing the historical prospect that holds them in vain, apprehensive of the inevitable responsibility for their free will and of the abuses committed in high public positions, the leaders of the so - called opposition and the oligarchs who serve them have pushed Victor Yushchenk to a dark and irresponsible step. I mean yesterday's decree. It is not normal for the President, instead of doing business, to fraternize with his recent opponents, who he himself accused of acts that are dangerous to the rule of law. All of this allows society to doubt the sincerity of the President's actions, his intentions to prevent a national disaster in which he is drawn by the figurines and greased by various oils. Ukraine will not forgive him when, under the influence of the wicked Pharisees and the petty intrigued party of war, he took such a disastrous step for the state and nation. The Socialist faction, the Ukrainian Socialists remind the President of the Ukrainian Constitution's mission to guarantee the respect of the rights and freedoms of its citizens, the responsibility for the fate of the state and democracy, and require adequate action to ensure that constitutional order is respected and, above all, the revocation of its decree. We also call on the Constitutional Court to take sides with the people, on the side of Ukraine, on the side of the country's homeland, to act as savior of the nation and the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday, as you know, the Conciliation Council, looking at the work plan for today, provided for the inclusion in the agenda of the day of the political situation in Ukraine. So it was that the real events of yesterday confirmed the relevance of the consideration of the matter. The other thing was that yesterday's session had to respond to specific actions by the President and other politicians and take appropriate proactive action, taking a series of decisions that were completely valid and could not be questioned, including the author of a decree that could refer to 90 articles of the Constitution, although the truth did not refer to it. The same question yesterday was the subject of an emergency meeting of the Cabinet of Ministers, and therefore today the Cabinet of Ministers is also present at the head of the Cabinet of Ministers, with the Prime Minister. However, the question is included in the order of the day, and we agreed yesterday at the Conciliation Council in this way, each faction has the opportunity to take five minutes to assess this situation and to propose steps that we can either in the legislative, regulatory order or as representatives of the policy that is responsible for the creation of power, or the MPs can speak separately on this issue. We can propose, I think it would be reasonable for the Cabinet of Ministers to make a statement after the meeting yesterday by the Prime Minister or by whom he will be asked to do so. That's how we're going to look at it. If specific proposals are to be made that require regulation or a decision to be taken, we will either make such an appointment and make the appropriate decision immediately. In the meantime, I would like to take this matter up. We're going to record a statement on this subject, first of all from factions, then separate MPs, considering that we reserve time for the prime minister, and then we're going to take an hour to figure out the positions of all those who would like to comment on this. Before proceeding to this issue, I am making an announcement that it is still within the scope of the previous regulatory procedure that, according to the minutes of the “Our Ukraine” Chamber of Deputies of 23 March 2007 and in accordance with paragraph three of the 60 articles of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I am reporting the expulsion of the National Deputy of Ukraine, Fedun Aleksija Leonidovic, from the membership of the “Our Ukraine” party. On the basis of article 59, paragraph 4, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules, I inform you that the national deputy of Ukraine, Fedun Aleksei Leonidovich, is nonfractional. Well, just to be clear, even though the Conciliation Council has included this issue in the agenda, I'm voting on a proposal to put the political situation in the country into order of the day. Whoever's behind this, please vote. [[10:31:32]] For 256 Deputies, the decision is made. Please list the factions of authorized factions who would like to speak out of factions, please. Now, if you'd like to sign up for the performance, please. So I think we're going to invest in an hour, and if there's no objection to yours, let's start by giving a word for information from the Cabinet of Ministers. And then the factions will appear, and so will the factions. Is there no objection? Then who's it gonna be? Victor Fedorovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u12	Dear fellow citizens! Dear Alexander Alexander! Dear National Deputies! Dear colleagues! In the recent history of an independent Ukraine, there have been many dramatic events that have been followed by millions of our fellow countrymen and the world’s public. On more than one occasion, society has found itself in a situation where political decisions depended on the fate of the people and their future generations. The historic choice of our way of development when Hamlet's “To be, not to be?” was decided for us as a sovereign European state. These were not simple trials, but whenever it was necessary to make the right decision, recognizing the personal responsibility for preserving civil peace for the fate of democracy, political participants found ways to understand. I repeat, this has been the case more often than the situation on April 2, 2007. Why, today, when the state seems to be facing the most difficult trials, has finally come out of a permanent socio-economic crisis, have you and I witnessed an actual attack on the constitutional system? History will answer that question, and I'm sure her verdict will be harsh. The reason for the attempt to disband the Supreme Council was the deliberate continuation of the dangerous experiment, the manipulation of the Constitution. In the light of what took place on April 2, 2007, we have to say that the notorious Presidential Decree on Parliament's dissolution aims to usurp power. Because this is about the actual dispersion of a legitimate democratically elected parliament. The open - minded nature of this decision shows that it is part of a scenario that may be part of the next step. Creating artificial conditions for permanent parliamentary elections to discredit parliamentaryism as such. The work of a mechanism that will guarantee the preservation of the power of individuals with any result of the people's will. The revision of the Constitution with a view to the return of the Autocrates Presidential Authority. I repeat, we've all been through our recent history. For the first time in the years of the Independent Ukraine, the guarantor of the Constitution took a step that could have disastrous consequences for the state and society. Yesterday the government met at an emergency meeting, in spite of individual ministers who wanted to hold it in private, we worked openly and transparently in the presence of media representatives. Society was able to make sure that the executive branch of power acted confidently and peacefully as it belonged to a government that felt the power of the Basic Law. Therefore, I would like to assure the Ukrainian people, the people's deputies, with full responsibility, that neither the adventurers of the so-called democratic opposition, nor the President of which they are exerting tremendous pressure, will be able to beat us out of the normal pace of daily fine work aimed at carrying out deep reforms. The government's peace of mind in the mandate of trust given to it by the electorate and the coalition. And we will definitely continue to implement our program. Because the convincing, positive results obtained in the short run of our government are evidence that we are going in the right direction. We can't, we don't have the right to lose another job. Ukraine will not endure the shocks it will face if we agree on the ultimatums of irresponsible politicians who specialize not in creation but in destruction. How can we convince people that after Parliament starts, their lives will not get worse, and the positive processes that have taken place in the socio-economic sphere are not slowing down? Thus, I feel it is my duty to tell our citizens that if the opposition scenario is implemented, the state will be once again rejected in its development for less than one year. People need to know that if constitutional decisions are not overturned, anti-constitutional decisions will not be overturned, their standard of living will deteriorate. This is due to objective processes and no assurance that after the elections, life will return to normal life does not match reality, we know that. We see now how we have responded to the President's decree of the business world, it's a natural response to political instability, the only way to prevent a loss of confidence from the potential partners of Ukraine, to immediately return the situation to the constitutional order. Turning to the Ukrainian people as the head of government, I assure our citizens that the executive authority will demonstrate an example of responsibility for the fate of the State and its future. We will continue to carry out our duties, despite the expectation of the so - called opposition that their adventure will lead to the paralysis of executive power, we know their plans well. You should disappoint them, your expectations are futile. There will be no destabilization or chaos. I am convinced that we will overcome the crisis and come out of it with honor, not weak, but stronger. Dear voters! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich! Dear National Deputies! If in any country, even in the most successful every year to ask people if they would like to re-elect Parliament, the answer is likely to be positive. The need for change, the natural state of every social body. But there is a constitution to ensure that this desire is realized within the legal field, thus preventing irresponsible politicians from bringing Ukraine into chaos and civil opposition. Sadly, our nation faced such a danger. The only way to avoid it and try to correct the President's fatal error is to wait for the Constitutional Court's decision to comply with its decree with the applicable basic law. Until such a decision of the Constitutional Court is rendered by the Supreme Council, the government must work on a regular basis and there should be no obstacle. The program of executive branch action in the political situation that took place is set out in the decree of the government that was adopted tonight, that is, the third of April of this year. As I come out of this rostrum, I want both the people's deputies and all the Ukrainian citizens to know the situation is under control. We will do everything we can to ensure that the consequences of an irresponsible decision to dissolve Parliament do not lead to the deterioration of the socio-economic situation of the country, to social development. At the same time, I would like to address the President once again: there is still a chance to avoid the worst, to sit down at the negotiating table and negotiate for Ukraine's future. Think again of the burden of responsibility that lies on your shoulders in the event of a rejection of a constructive dialogue with legitimate authority. We are all aware that our fate is in the hands of the people. But you should remember this too, for no one comes into power forever, including the President, especially if he fails to demonstrate the ability to be a unionizer, a pole. Victor Andryovich, take this step to meet Ukraine! [[Applause]] There's still time! Dear colleagues, fellow citizens! The coalition and government in recent months have made no exaggeration in the socio-economic sphere. The busy and purposeful work has made it possible to raise pensions and pay, and it's finally allowed us to look at the future with optimism. As Prime Minister of Ukraine, the Head of the Government Reform Committee assures us that no one will be able to break the reform agenda to bring Ukraine to a quality new standard of living, putting our country in one row with the countries of Europe. The world’s public is attentive and sympathetic to our plans. Today, Ukraine is one of the most dynamic countries in the world. But there are political forces in Ukraine that do not enjoy such ambitious plans. At any cost, they're trying to disrupt the process of progressive development of the state: the worse, the better -- their slogans, their philosophy. I call on all citizens of Ukraine to unite to defend the Constitution, the fundamental values of our society: freedom, democracy, the rule of law -- just as they did at the most difficult events in the history of our nation. So I say from this rostrum: National integration, parliamentary democracy, and economic disruptions for the benefit of society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u13	Thank you, Victor Fedorovich. We see, we now understand the position of the Cabinet of Ministers. What do the factions think about this? Please sign up for the first Simonenko Peter Mikolaiovich. Let's have a word with you. Five minutes for factions, three minutes for deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u14	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! On behalf of the faction of the Company, I would like to make a few points. First. The analysis of the events gives rise to the following elections: the President has grossly violated the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine. But this violation is not, in my opinion, a fact of misunderstandings, a lack of appreciation of the situation. This is the President's intentional position, aimed primarily at the implementation of the second phase of the orange route. And the continuation of 2004 when, under the pretext of fighting for improvement, orderliness in the country and democracy, in fact, the choice of the country's foreign and domestic policy course was resolved. What course is this, we are witnesses to you today. Therefore, the scenario of the second stage of the orange path is characterized by the fact that the perpetrators of the same – the same field commanders of sadness sow, today they call to the city of Kiev to express their will, and in fact today they determine what the forces of the people are trying to solve their little. Mercential interests. This is particularly evident in the United States of America once the instructions have been received. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in parallel with what is happening inside the country, the same team has planned and conducted NATO exercises in Ukraine, and since April -- April, May, June and July -- foreign troops will be fully deployed in Ukraine. Is it not in order to complete this orange patch? We are witnessing with you that all policies over the course of two years have been designed to strengthen geopolitical contradictions. It is Ukraine that is becoming an apple of contention in the Slav space, because the President and his surroundings form from Ukraine a part of the Black Sea arc. Through GUAM, relations with the Russian Federation and the brotherly peoples are intensifying the policy of GUAM. The President and his environment do their utmost to deepen territorial, ideological, interfaith, including ethical differences through political divisions. There are prerequisites for unmanaged chaos in the country, and it is in this chaos that the President and his environment are trying to restore dictatorship. The dictatorship of pro-Western criminal capital with American interests is attempting to destroy parliamentary democracy today. The President has put himself out of law, and, on the basis of nationalist radicals, has brought the political process beyond the law and common sense, without offering anything, is now trying to destroy the country's governance framework. The President has ceased to be a guarantor of the Constitution, and from this we must take decisions. But there is another danger: in fact, the President hung Damoklov's sword on the parliamentary democracy, what the President's team is proposing to hold. Dear voters, we're in favour of your statement. But we told the President yesterday. It was necessary to start with the fact that in its teams and our Ukraine, and the BET did not sell seats for millions of dollars, thus initially falsifying the results of the elections. How, though, will these early elections be concluded for you respected voters? They will end up spending billions on these elections, and they will end up with a further rise in prices and tariffs, and they will end up with another unemployment, a further decline in your income and further tests. I would like to draw your attention to the well-respected voters and to the fact that these measures taken by the President to dictate certain political powers, once again, prove that he is not in a position to govern the country. And in that today, the main threat to all of us is with you. He will thus lead us not only to a new struggle but also to what they are preparing for. I would like to tell you, distinguished voters and my colleagues here, what the President said at the meeting yesterday. He said, "On the field, we're going to call people, and we're going to kick you out of the Supreme Council." So yesterday, the President has officially given us the idea that he's preparing for the slaughter, they're preparing another fighter -- that's what they're doing today in the policy of taking power. What do I suggest? I invite the Government to work and do what is required of the Government. We shall continue our parliamentary work. The Constitutional Court must decide accordingly by assessing: constitutional or unconstitutional. The position of our faction. The President is taking unconstitutional action. And the time will come when he completes his mandate to be criminalized for such acts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u15	The word is given by Gnatenko, a member of “Our Ukraine”. Please, Lev Mikolaiovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u16	National Deputy Lev Gnatenko, Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs of Ukraine. Dear compatriots, the conclusion of the electoral campaign in 2006 gave Ukraine a unique opportunity for three years to stop political campaigning and to address the economic development of the state, to increase the well-being of our people. In the countries of permanent democracy at this stage, the fundamental struggle between the political forces is halting and all the political leaders responsible to the people are moving to the stage of the expansion of their state. Countries are moving into a stage of economic development, and at this stage the political struggle between power and opposition is moving into a new phase of economic competition. But the main goal of this rivalry is to develop the economy, increase the authority of the state and the well-being of its people. Everyone understands that in today’s international political and economic environment, such luxury is not allowed as long - term political strife. Economics defines politics and dictates rules of conduct for those responsible to the State and people of the political powers. The state, state priorities are number one in the conduct of the entire elite of the country. Unfortunately, one more time, we see a completely opposite approach in Ukraine. The ambitions of political leaders do not allow them to get over the offense of defeat. Desire of an urgent political rematch becomes the main goal of the moment. There is political hysteria in the country, the struggle is moving from the center to the regions and, unfortunately, to the international level. The world is rapidly developing, moving forward, countries are fighting for their place in the world's political and economic space, competition is increasing every day, and adventurous policies are pushing the forward ship of national unity and economics. Unfortunately, the President of Ukraine is also involved in this struggle of political leaders. Instead of fulfilling its main constitutional obligations to the people of Ukraine, namely, the provision of constitutional, social, and decent living conditions for our citizens, the President of Ukraine, unfortunately, allows himself to be involved in the ranks of political demarches and political competition. The signing of the Universal National Unity gave hope for the end of the cold war and the transition to constructive work. But they failed to dry out the ink as the battle unfolded with the new political power. A party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs, defending the interests of economic development, creating conditions for those who provide economic co-governments, and as a result of increasing the welfare of the Ukrainian people, we have declared our position, honestly and consistently fulfilled all our responsibilities to our political partners. All our efforts in the negotiating process have been aimed at consolidating society to stabilise the political and economic situation in Ukraine. We spoke honestly and openly about the inadmissibility of a political war that makes the economy of Ukraine and its citizens hostage. We have stated and stated that the principle “the worse is the better” is not acceptable to our program and our views. And finally, we have consistently insisted on the inadmissibility of involving the President of Ukraine as a guarantor of the Constitution in political battalions without responsible politicians of adventurers. World society has grown tired of observing the convulsions of one of the country’s largest nations, which can lead to international chaos and not stability. We're losing authority, we're losing investment appeal. Our political and legislative stability does not deter a world business that is openly afraid of investing resources in Ukraine's economy. All of this leads to economic stagnation, could lead to economic stagnation, and could result in the loss of Ukraine's economic and political independence. A party of Ukrainian industrialists and entrepreneurs turns to all reasonable political forces working to build an economically strong and socially stable Ukraine. And I propose to join our proposals. First. Regardless of the political situation, our priorities have been, are and will be, national interests, economic development, an increase in the level of our citizens, and, as a result, the authority of our state in the world’s co - worker. Based on the higher national interests, the stability of the political situation as a condition for the development of the economy today, we call for a pooling of efforts to prevent further deepening in Ukraine's political, economic and economic crisis The President of Ukraine, the Prime Minister of Ukraine, the head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, we are in favour.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u17	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u18	The Party of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, stressing the importance of the current proposals, urges all citizens of the State to do their utmost to achieve peace and harmony in Ukraine. Ukraine is the only country we have, the glory of Ukraine!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u19	Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u20	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, Reverend Victor Fedorovich, distinguished colleagues. I'll start with a quote: The soul rejoices with such unique boys. Our party list has brought together people whose conscience and integrity are more important than fear of dictatorship, threats. Our party list brought together the elites of the nations, these and many other high-level evaluations gave the leaders of today's opposition from the bloc of Timoshenko and “Our Ukraine” to their colleagues by faction, the national deputies of Ukraine before the elections. However, it has been a year, and dozens of people's deputies from BUT, and “Our Ukraine” working in parliament under the leadership of their leaders, have decided to step out of these factions. Because they don't want to be clowns, they don't want to blow the team, they don't want to block the electrical shields, they want toilets, and they want laws, like the national MPs. In all democratic countries — France, Britain, the United States — every member of the national parliament has the right to express his or her position, even if it differs from that of the faction’s leadership. And only in Ukraine did the leaders of the opposition who had the audacity to call themselves democratic, the right of the national MP to free will decided to make the grounds for the dissolution of the Supreme Council. There is no mandatory mandate for parliamentarians in any democratic state, and in Ukraine, the President considers it possible to demand the application of such an unconstitutional norm and, even, to issue illegal decrees for the dissolution of the Supreme Council. The leaders of Block Timoshenko and “Our Ukraine” tell their voters that new elections are needed to cleanse themselves of traitors. They lie, trying to get honest parliamentarians dirty, so that ordinary people don't think about the reasons for their exit from the U.S.U. and our Ukraine. Unless you can call the traitor of Mikola Zamkovenko, a Butt MP who was the judge of the Pecher Court, who passed the decision to release Yulia Timoshenko from custody in 2001, regardless of the persecution, repression, searches that were used against him and his loved ones. Unless you call the traitors of those who left BUT – Oleg Nadosh and Michael Brodsky, the leaders of the election headquarters “Blok Timoshenko” in previous elections. Unless you can call Anatoly Kinaha the second number of the party list “Our Ukraine”, which supported Viktor Yushchenk, starting with the 2004 presidential election. Unless Sergey the Chief, one of the most authoritative deputies of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, can be called an opponent or an enemy of democracy. In demanding an imperative mandate for their deputies, the leaders of the opposition try to conceal their own authoritarianism and incompetence to conceal a strong right. It's not democracy, it's farce. Not to be overlooked is the fact that in the face of political repression, during the time of Leonidas Kuchma, three deputies emerged from the faction of the Socialist Party in 10 years. And now, under the conditions of democracy and freedom of speech from the opposition of deputies, there are dozens. The reason is that over a year and a half, both BUT and Our Ukraine were essentially a party of power and they showed people what they could do, and basically showed people what they couldn't do. I would like to remind you that in the third round of the 2004 presidential election, President Yushchenko won 53 percent of the votes, and in 2006 36 percent voted in favour of BUT and Our Ukraine. Here is a real indicator of people's confidence in what is said and done today's opposition. In 18 areas of U.S.B. and U.K., the governors in 21 districts represent the President's party, and in these areas, there were the highest rates for housing and utilities. For the opposition, the President's decree is the latitude by which many politicians, who ruled in 2005 and early 2006, would like to hide themselves from criminal responsibility, particularly criminal responsibility. Audits by the Audit Authority show that the amount of abuse detected only in the Ministry of Internal Affairs amounts to 750 million dollars, NAK Naftogaz has been in debt for $2 billion, and strategic fuel supplies for heat and nuclear power plants have been distributed, all of which needs to be accounted for. But instead of the prosecutor's office, they're hoping to hide behind the next election -- it won't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u21	Instead of the dry word given to Taras Blackwall by the faction of the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u22	Dear Victor Fedorovich! Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, dear colleagues, people of Ukraine! We are today in this difficult and serious, and critical moment for Ukraine must draw some conclusions and some conclusions from this stage that has taken place. I had the right and the honour to say from the Party of Regions that we were trying to settle the peace situation until the last moment, we were initiators of all the negotiations, we were initiators of even such things as a broad coalition, such as joining the coalition of Presidential representatives, who did not have their representation in the coalition that was created, we took all the steps for understanding, and today, despite the unconstitutional actions of the President, we continue to state our readiness to understand, you have heard it in the speech of the leader of the Raisa Bogatyrova faction, you have heard it many times in the last period of time in the speeches of the Prime Minister of Ukraine. But peace - lovingness, the search for compromise, cannot deny another moment that is right for us — we are unequivocal supporters of the very legal development of the Ukrainian State. For us there is a Constitution, there is an article 90 in the Constitution, which clearly sets out the principles and possibilities for the dissolution of the Supreme Council by the President, including their list. And the Constitution contains article 60, which is a clear law for us. Not only does she not force us, but she forbids us to carry out anti-State, anti-constitutional, illegal presidential orders. We have to follow the Constitution. And no matter how much we want to understand, we do not have the right to give birth to legal nihilism alone. We hope that this decision, which was made by the President yesterday, is the result of his severe psychophysical condition, which has been taken under severe psychological pressure and pressure by many people today who have decided to usurp the President and control him. We realize that the President fell into self - isolation and became the victim of the instigation of certain horrors that had been associated with the creation of a possible majority of 300 votes. I want to reiterate our coalition position: it wasn't created. The majority coalition against someone or against something was a reaction to the statement of opposition leaders, particularly Julius Timoshenko, that they already had assurances that the President would promise all the bills. We were looking for the support of 300 deputies to be adopted and enacted by laws to raise minimum pensions and wages, to improve the living minimum, to improve the lives of our citizens. The President still has a chance to understand this mistake now and to bring it back to normal, to prevent chaos in the state, to prevent the opposition that he is actually pushing the country. Responsibility is behind him. Today, representatives of all political forces in Ukraine, and representatives of foreign countries, we know even the last statement made by the United States government, say that it is Ukrainian politicians, senior leaders of the state, who will be responsible for what is happening in the country. The President will be responsible for the consequences of the anti-constitutional decree, and he must understand that. On the false, hypocritical charges of Julia Timoshenko, why we're not going to the re-election, I want to answer with a specific answer: yes, we know, and sociologists confirm that in this situation we're going to get even more votes than we have today. But this increase is not worth giving birth to legal nihilism in society. This will mean that anyone can be ignored and rejected by the Constitution and laws of Ukraine. They're clearly written. One, the other, the third time we've touched them, we're going to lead to political chaos. As a result of this concession, we will lead to a situation that, until there is a guarantee in Yulia that Timoshenko will be the President of Ukraine, there or the Prime Minister of Ukraine, will not have all the power in this country, as she wishes to be the head of the country, to be the Supreme Council, because there is a constitutional norm that they are counting on. 150 deputies do not take an oath — the Supreme Council does not join in its mandate. Why don't the opposition leaders talk about it today, and it's this scenario that they're looking at. The answer is that we will act exclusively by legal, legal methods. Submission to the Constitutional Court, filing before the courts of other institutions, legal acts, not illegal acts, and not criminal acts, as our opponents do today. Finally, I want to add one more moment from me, not from the faction. I fought the dictatorship of Leonid Kuchma for several years, and I was one of the leaders of the antichrist opposition. You know, today I personally want to tell that man, not taking away any of the accusations that I've been making against him: Leonid Danilovich, I'm sorry, I didn't think we'd have monsters like Yushchenko and Timoshenko, on their backs you're still the leader of democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u23	The factions are finished. The MPs signed up and also signed up for the Human Rights Commissioner, Nina Karpachov. I give her my word. Please. And then Baranowski will perform. Nina Ivanovna, you have the same policy: five minutes. Please. That'll be three.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u24	Dear Head, distinguished national deputies, distinguished Prime Minister, members of the government, representatives of the media, compatriots! The situation in Ukraine following its release yesterday, April 2, by the President of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenk, the decree on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council caused great concern and anxiety in society. And all this happens a year after the elections that took place before the Supreme Council were assessed by international observers, the entire international community and even President Victor Yushchenk as the most democratic elections in all of Ukraine's history. By the way, that's where the transition to the parliamentary-presidential republic started. About what we saw and what we felt. It can be said that since yesterday, a political and legal crisis has begun in Ukraine. Legal nihilism, which is now referred to when decisions of the Supreme Court of Ukraine are ignored, when they go against the President's agreement in exceptional cases, when decisions of the Supreme Council of Ukraine are ignored and even the Constitution itself is ignored. Today we are talking about disrespect for the principle of respect for the rule of law. I would like to address everyone today, all branches of power and the President in particular: the situation needs to be brought back immediately, and time has not yet been lost. Given that under the 101st article of the Constitution, a human rights-authorized Ukraine exercises parliamentary control over the observance of human constitutional rights and freedoms, I consider it necessary to state the following. Does the President have to disband the Supreme Council? Yes, it does? Under the Constitution of Ukraine solely on the basis of the 90th article of the Constitution of Ukraine, and the list of these grounds is exhaustive. I can tell you today that it is clear that none of these reasons have arisen. That's the first one. Oh, that's right. And therefore, the President was not entitled to either of these grounds in the absence of an order for the dissolution of the Supreme Council. This is the first conclusion of a human rights commissioner. Another principle. Yesterday there was a debate as to whether the Supreme Council had ceased its powers since the President's decree was promulgated? The President's orders are published today. Article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine provides a clear answer, for this article strengthens the principle of the continuity of the mandate of Ukrainian national deputies, whose mandate ends on the day of the opening of the first meeting of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And this principle also works for the Supreme Council, and it certainly does. By the way, we have a negative example of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, which, in a law that has not established the principle of continuity of the mandate of constitutional judges, would lead to a collapse in the activities of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine. We remember that. Next. I would like to say that today’s opposition is facing a dangerous situation. We remember 2004. I met Mr. Leonid Kuchma, who was then president, and I asked him only that a drop of blood from the Ukrainian people should not be shed in that opposition, in the sharpness that occurred in 2004. Today, it is important to keep in mind the interests and rights of our own people. I would like to urge all politicians today to remember this and to make sure that the force is not applied on any side. And the last. The worsening of the political crisis coincided with the start of the Eerie Week, which precedes the brightest Christian festival of Easter. Like the Most High himself is testing each one of us for understanding, for reconciliation, for mutual forgiveness. It seems to me that a compromise between the President and Parliament under constitutional reform is needed now more than ever. This is highlighted both in the address of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and in the address of the government to the Ukrainian people and in the declaration addressed by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. For my part, I turned to the Human Rights Commissioner of the Council of Europe and I count on the support of both the Council of Europe and such a structure as the OSCE and the Commissioner for Human Rights. And once again, as I finish my speech, I want to ask all the political forces, the President of Ukraine, to consider the very main thing -- the source of power in our Ukraine, which is the people, and to respect their rights and freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u25	The word is given by the Baranivian Alexander Petrovich. He's the one we're going to be after.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u26	Thank you. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, the distinguished audience, the distinguished people of Ukraine. Today, we find that there has been a coup d’état in Ukraine. The action is long overdue. Let's look at some of the actions. We have been under pressure for several months from the situation in Ukraine that there is a political crisis in Ukraine. When this was not proven, because the President's Institute was working, the government was working, the parliament was working, we were again being intimidated by the complete collapse of the economy in Ukraine. The government has been able to prove that we are getting better and that it is possible to raise the social standards of our people. This, of course, did not suit the opposition, so they took extreme steps. What we can talk about is the opposition and, for example, the leader of the Yulu Tymoshenko bloc, on the human side when she spent the last month of her faction meeting with a daily message about the fastest destabilization of the situation in Ukraine. I would like to stress once again the destabilisation of the situation in Ukraine. It's a woman, it's a mother who also has children who understands well what it is when destabilization is, and when people go out on the street and go to the wall. Of course, it is not afraid of destabilization. My daughter lives in England with her son-in-law, money abroad. What about our Ukrainian citizens, for all of us? Our kids here, the money, no one says that someone has them today, our people have a lot, if they do, then somewhere out there, maybe in the image they put that ten there, and it shakes for it, it worries. So, of course, she's afraid of nothing and she's trying to destabilize her, and that proves it today. What is the fear of opposition? I'm afraid the opposition, I'd like to be understood by all of the Ukrainians, is to raise the social standards of our people. Because if a person feels that he's adding a salary, he's adding a pension, he's keeping prices, there's the stability of the economy, he's able to develop a business, then people believe that power, they trust and they support it. There's no need for opposition. They realize that only destabilisation can bring them to the top of power. They can be reassured that this will not happen. I would like, dear friends, to emphasize that they have only raised their salaries and pensions since April 1st, as of April 2nd, already decreed the dissolution of Parliament. Today I would like to ask our Holy Fathers of Orthodox Religions not to separate Yashchenko from the church for the sin he committed to the Ukrainian people after the dissolution of parliament on a passionate week. And I'd like to finish my words by saying this before, or telling the truth about Julia Timoshenko. “Deception of Yulin’s appearance”.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u27	For poetry, one second, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u28	One second, thank you. “By deceiving Julie’s appearance because she is fragile in the women’s flesh, the nature of Yulina conceals the unity of the harp with the butcher.”
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u29	Associations are a little bit remote, like poetry, but nevertheless the MP has the right to use different arguments. Please, Little Omelyan Nikonovich. For help, twice a hero of the socialist work. Please, come on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u30	Dear Alexander Alexander! People's deputies! Dear government! The Communist faction has always stood up for the conquests that our common people have defended. To this day, ordinary peasants are not protected by those citizens. We see, of course, the decrees we receive today, and our people receive and think where someone is, that it will make it easier for us to live. But the peasant waits like the God of the first sun of spring, because the sun is the coming of good, it is the coming of what our year feeds. The villagers are all set to work, but we tie them on our hands and feet, not letting them work. And the content of this money that went to these rallys is to throw it at the salon, to the minibar, to pay the peasants, even if they can afford to feed themselves and their children, we are doing, excuse me, a fool. Victor Andryovich! I'm talking to you, I've known you a long time, but I'm more sure you've forgotten about me, because it's only natural. This is natural in both the natural and the nation. I want to ask you, when I was on my way here, because you don't think you were voted in the West alone, voted for you in the East and downtown, and they asked me, "Give Victor Andryovich, let him stabilize in our country." Because spring is that guarantee for the well-being of our people. Victor Andryovich, I recently returned from neighboring Belarus, and it wasn't just me, there were comrades, on the moor, on the sand we didn't see anywhere, there was a patch of uneaten land, you see what's going on with your native substance, Chernigian, Žitomyrščina, everything's been splashed with wetlands, wetlands, there's only a handful of nectar being collected, and today we're thinking about how to take power into our own hands. You don't need power, you need mind, you have to apply your mind to make sure that our people on fertile land don't buy bread for 2.50, and if you want to buy bread for a ruble, you don't buy 70 bracelets of sausage, and you don't buy gasoline for 7 for 5 bracelets, but at least for 1.50, as it were for you, for your arrival. Please, Victor Andriyovich, take that wicked decree and make stability in Ukraine, people thank you again. If you don't, the people won't forgive you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u31	He's got a word right now, instead of Tarasov, Malinowski, that's how they agreed. And if he does, then Bondarczuk will come in instead of Malinowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Alexander, members of the government, Prime Minister, MPs, voters, it is difficult to assess what happened yesterday and perhaps it is the case of the Constitutional Court. But if it's more human to see what's happening today in the state, I can only say one more thing, people are just concerned about what's going on. We didn't have very much stability in the country, but there were some positive moments there and there was Presidential Decree on the dissolution of the Supreme Council. You know, I'm going to talk more about Church and I want to say one thing, today, I think Victor Andryovich Yushchenko planted a kind of political summit where the personal interests or personal ambitions of a group of politicians or political structures got him involved in this vacchanal and he's completely unaware of what he did yesterday. Because today, people who work in business, people who do economics for them, in large numbers, don't really think about the political structure in which they relate, they're interested in stability today, economic stability in the state. If you look at what's going on in our country over the last few months, I can tell by looking at the Church that stability has come. First of all, I want to talk about the village. When did we have in Ukraine that we didn't have a higher price during the spring work in the field? When was that? Today, even there is a discount on that. Today, as far as the problems of cities are concerned, housing and utilities. The Chercas region received $28 million from the state budget for reforming the sector. And you know what a branch that is today. These moments are completely related to what the government is doing today, to what the Supreme Council has done today, and to what laws have been passed. And in the same situation, this kind of evaluation of this activity is absolutely groundless, in my opinion, for the President's decision. I would like to address those deputies who have long known the opposition, the same Julius Volodymyrna, Yuri Lucenka, and others. You know, by listening to them and looking them in the face, you're just wondering the extent of hypocrisy they're taking today. Because these people don't care about how people live today. Personal interests — I can say with certainty — personal interests and their interest: we must be in command, we must be in charge. He asks: Why? And just so that their clans, their financial groups, could take the positions they took before that. I don't mean to say that we're fine in the state. I would just like to point out that today, even today, in all the power of the Cabinet of Ministers and the Minister of Internal Affairs, we have a lot of problems in the judicial system, in the prosecutor's office, we have a corrupt office today, and that's what this is about, and I'm talking about it. Today, we have a staff assignment for personal interests. They assign people to positions where they can make a personal profit. Today's problems with "Golden Horseshoes" in Cherkashchen are also being used properly, and I would like the Cabinet of Ministers to pay attention to this. Because what we're talking about is big politics, I think it's going to shake.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u33	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u34	The Court will give appropriate assessments of these actions, and the Cabinet of Ministers, the Supreme Council, will do their utmost to further our problems. We have to do law enforcement today, law enforcement, fight corruption, and then we'll just have to solve economic problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u35	Thank you. Instead of Etuch’s word, please give it to Husar.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u36	Dear Victor Fedorovich, distinguished Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the government. I received a document from the General Service on the activities of the law enforcement agencies of the Ukrainian Secretary. In this document, the head of this service, Mr. Heltie, requires the heads of the U.S.S.S.O. in the areas surrounding the Ministry of Internal Affairs to provide full information in the shortest possible terms regarding the criminogenic situation directly to the Office of the President. This suggests that the Ukrainian Presidential Secretariat is trying to take on direct management of the IMF and the local authorities of internal affairs. This is contrary to the Constitution and the current legislation of Ukraine. I appeal to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and to the heads of regional administrations, to act solely in the legal field and to be faithful to the Constitution and to the oath. I worked hard in internal affairs, for about 30 years, headed the U.S.S.A. for a long time, and not one U.S.S.A., but I never received such instructions for my career. I mean, once again I am addressing you, internal affairs officials, be faithful to your oaths, the requirements of the Police Act, and act only in the legal field. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u37	Thank you. Mr. Kuzmenko has the floor, Sergey Leonidovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u38	Honorable citizens of Ukraine, respected colleagues, honourable Head. We have devoted a great deal of time today, unfortunately, to this notorious decree of President Yulchenk, I beg your pardon, Yushchenka, regarding the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council. This decree raises several questions that we are obliged to answer. Well, the first time a coalition was created. The coalition was formed eight months ago. The President acknowledged this coalition because he turned to it, more faithfully, used its address and proposed the Prime Minister's candidacy, the President agreed that the coalition had appointed a government and given individual mandates to the members of the government, that is, he recognized them as ministers, and eight months later he decided to change his mind and say that there was no coalition, it was created illegally. Then let's maybe spread this practice and start looking at decisions that we made not only 8 months ago, but a year ago, 2 years ago, and that's not real there, and so on. In my opinion, this would be very interesting, for example, the decision to hold 3 rounds of voting for the President and some other decisions. It seems to me that on this path, the President has taken an unconstitutional path, and I propose to put to the vote a protocol commission to the committee of profile on legal policy, to study the existence of grounds for initiating the procedure of impeachment by the President of Ukraine. That's the first one. The other one. I would like to say that she really wants opposition, not what she says, but what she wants. Today, there has been a movement, and we see a shift in statistics. But for me, for example, I mean the social situation of people, but for me, for example, the situation is, say, the car market in Ukraine. In Ukraine's car market, boom, there's not enough capacity to produce cars, 100,000 cars a year are sold in Ukraine, except for the second market. So people's well-being is growing -- it's a fact. And the opposition says she wants him, too. But what's actually going to happen is call me a country where there's an economic growth in an age of shock, so to speak, call me a country where investments come in, and there's no normal political climate, that's not there. So we might be facing an investment freeze, an outflow of capital, and completely unforeseeable exchange rate jumps. I think we can't let that happen, and that's why we're calling Lucenka to shake power.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u39	Please let me finish, he said the last sentence. Repeat the last sentence.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u40	Thank you. So, in my opinion, the most honest of his intentions was said yesterday by Yuri Lucenko, when he said, "We have to shake this power until it falls," that's the real desire of the opposition. She can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u41	Instead of Ivanov, Platinum Vladimir Mikhajlovich, head of the Committee on Economic Policy, takes the floor. And we'll finish the discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u42	Dear Mr. Head, distinguished colleagues, respected members of the government, media officials, the distinguished people of Ukraine! Today I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to turn to the people of Ukraine for what is happening today from purely economic politics. Today, a government that has only been working for six months has shown that it can work. These are indicators: that's seven percent of the increase in gross national product, that's improvement in life. Today, the Committee on Economic Policy, most in the Supreme Council of Ukraine and the government, have gone through the programming of their work, not manual management, but software. There's a government socio-economic development programme for 2007. There's a state development programme five years before 2001 and there's a development programme by 2020 that's passed all the exams at the Committee on Economic Policy and in a new, completely new form, a look that will allow the state to develop, speed up the indicators, it's passed to the people. And what exactly happened at that time? At this time, how should we hate our people, so that on the day that the government and parliament find seven and a half billion dollars to raise wages, pensions, minimum wage, wages for budget workers: teachers, medics and other categories -- to issue an anti-national, anti-constitutional decree on separation on that day. Yes, it is the opposition that fears that in raising life, the standard of life of the people, there is the grave of this opposition, which will not even allow for half a year's time to talk about what might happen to the new, so to speak, power. And that's why I want to be the leader of the unfractional MPs today, as well as the inter-parliamentary union, which includes people who have shown their will, and they're 27 today, and none of these 27s, and every day, with each session, will be more, is the majority that will allow us to receive 300 votes today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u43	Thank you. Bondarchuk has the word. And Basil Kiselov will be here.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u44	Dear colleagues, Deputy Bondarchuk. The faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine, Winnickin. I and my colleague, Sergey Petrovich, are on various ideological poles, but I truly respect him for his higher political passions in this situation, and as an authoritative and respected European-level lawyer, he stands solely on the letter of the law. I agree with Sergey Petrovich and that in our lives there are many problems, especially that as a socialist and head of the Committee on Social Policy, I would like to see a radical increase in wages, pensions and generally an increase in the level of social protection. Yet, who continues to be a derby, if spoken, by referring, again, to the deputy of the Chief? Who do the executive authorities in most areas really belong to? So if we're being accused of being delinquent, we need to understand that the government in Kiev has, unfortunately, not yet reached the district state administration, which in most cases is headed by the representatives of those requiring early elections. It's a shame that the President has been blackmailed by the devils, and in fact, he has committed a coup d'état. World history teaches that the devils always end badly, indeed, the nations suffer. Obviously, though, this is the only way to see things through. Apparently, Victor Yushchenko had a bad history, or what you might ask Roman Zvaric, he didn't go to school at all. He, if I were to speak of our guarantor of the Constitution, reminds us today of Gorbachev's 1991 period, when he carried out all of Yeltsin's demands until he lost the state of which he was president and office and was thrown to the brink of history. Well, our guarantor chose this course for himself. The scariest part of all of this is that we're trying to impose an oceanic scenario, but Ukraine is not Georgia, and we can't be held hostage to the incorruptibility of one's own or the palatological ambitions of another. We're Ukrainians, and we're going our own way. I think so. What do we need today? We need to act in accordance with our plan: Parliament adopts laws and the government exercises its constitutional powers. In short, to act in harmony with Tikina: “Let them, as they know, go mad, do to us, do to us.” And I would like to conclude by thanking our young people who came today to support the government and to support the coalition because they are present today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u45	There wasn't enough time, because I was reading third-class poems, right? Please. But the memory was beautiful, aloud, long ago, and it was a wonderful memory of the poet. Vasil Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u46	Respectable colleagues, respected compatriots. I think that everyone who is more or less informed knows what is really going on and what is the root cause of the illegal decree issued by the President of Ukraine. But not everyone dares to name things by their names. The main reason is that we have come into the area of the geopolitical interests of the United States of America, which, having lost the war in Iraq, are fulfilling their strategic task of bringing Ukraine into NATO. To that end, you know, they took the decision of the Congress to allocate money, they passed the law to adopt Ukraine into NATO. In short, they decide for us without us. That's where we live. And in order to translate their plans into action, they're using an ancient way, like the world, it's called compromise. Compromise, as they say, from birthday. The time will come, and the people of Ukraine will know the truth. And so the inspirers of the anti-constitutional coup today understand what will have to be answered. They are guided by basic fear. Some are the fear of being exposed, others are the fear of being held accountable for billions and billions of bracelets stolen from Ukraine's budget. That's why they'll do whatever they're told because of the ocean. And in vain, colleagues, you think the President will go to the fifth, you can convince him that he will cancel his order. That won't happen. I assure you. And we cannot help but worry that tens of thousands of our citizens are ready to come and go to the capital today to say no to the coup d'état. Therefore, our task is not to allow civil opposition, to do everything calmly and peacefully, and to persuade the President to surrender and resign. And in conclusion. Because only one of them is a resignation for such an offence. And in conclusion. The real threat of turning Ukraine into NATO bases must be understood as it is. Therefore, in view of this, we have a duty to demand an immediate referendum, which, by the way, is recorded in a universal which the President does not once again, in flagrant violation of the Constitution, implements. 4 million 160,000 signatures are collected, and they are unquestionable. For more than a year and a half, the documents are in the CTC and are now with the President. He does not take decisions, so we must immediately demand a referendum on NATO and the people will speak where we are and speak to the President and his environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u47	Thank you. The reply to Sergey the Headman was mentioned twice. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u48	Mr. Head, honourable colleagues, MPs, my name was mentioned more than twice, 2 deputies were mentioned, i.e. formally I have 2 minutes to repeat, but I will use these two minutes not to respond to fellow MPs who mentioned my name, but to do what Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk advised me to do when he headed the Ukrainian Security Service in 93. Then, in the spring, an attempt was made on my life and on my colleague's life in the first Parliament, Valery Iwasuka, and then Eugene Kirilovich Marchuk said, “You should always do it publicly.” So this morning my phone is breaking up, and there's this person in the immediate vicinity of the President who worked and worked for his personal protection, and who, when I was the Minister of Justice in the government of Yehanurov, also set up protection for me. I pass the word literally. “You have struck us with a ball. Wait for the right answer. I will avenge you not only on me, but also on my children.” I'm the one who published it. This is a literal quote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u49	Thank you. I think it's worth it to Sergey Petrovich to make an official request to the relevant structures to evaluate and take measures that are appropriate to this situation, because white of the kind, puffy of the view, often turns out to be a common black evil. And we must not allow the slogans of all this wickedness to develop. We have to give a legal assessment of all these things. We discussed the issue that was put into the agenda and I would like to sum up our discussion by expressing the following. First. Yesterday during the plenary session, we discussed all the questions about how the Supreme Council would react to the situation today, based on the unconstitutionality of the President's decree. All the political and legal decisions of the Supreme Council yesterday have been taken, and now we need to ensure that the decisions taken are implemented, these are the functions of the committees, the professional committees of the Supreme Council. I refer to factions, to faction leaders, to their duty to form an objective assessment of everything that is happening in the state and society, in view of the factions being representatives of their political forces, and the political forces have their own structures and mechanisms of influence on social opinion by coming out of the Political Parties Act. I would like to take full advantage of this, for today people need it. Now, given that we're being listened to by citizens under the walls of the Supreme Council and there's radiation, I'd like to make some assessments of what's going on in society today and why it's happening. Before that, note the content of the constitutional issues of power - building in Ukraine. The Constitution, which is based on democratic principles applied in all the democracies of the world, refers to the people as the only source of power in Ukraine. But the structures of power created by it, this source is distributed by the functions of the legislative, executive and judicial authorities, with such a calculation that it is impossible to usurp and that one branch does not interfere with another branch. And if the people were wrong, for example, he created a parliament that envisions the right to have executive power, and he is unable to do what he can then do. The Constitution then provided for the right of dissolution of Parliament, and this right is enshrined in 90 articles of the Constitution, providing grounds for the dissolution of Parliament, in fact, for early parliamentary elections. First, he cannot hold a 30-day session of Parliament, second, cannot create a coalition of parliaments, third, cannot form a Cabinet of Ministers. There is no more reason for the Constitution to provide, no more rights for the President to announce early elections, and all of his references to the articles of the Constitution mentioned in the President's Order have no bearing on these grounds. These are only references to articles that implement the election procedure or give further arguments, because the sovereignty of the state is not only the President, but the State in general, the authorities, the Cabinet of Ministers, the Armed Forces and so forth, as enshrined in the Constitution of Ukraine. Therefore, the Constitution does not allow us to usurp this authority from all nations, from all authority in one person. I'd like us to pay attention to that. What does the Commandment really mean? This is an act of constitutional law in Ukraine. Sending some of the opposition to the world’s experience that elections will be held once and for all in other countries and so forth, is, excuse me, an argument from the wicked one. This can be done when the constitutions of those countries give rise to such a right and decisions are made by parliaments that are unable to organize executive power and the activities of the Cabinet of Ministers. An excellent example in this regard is the Constitution of Italy and the practice that has been achieved there for many years. In the Ukrainian situation, however, today's situation, it has nothing to do with, I would like us to know. Now, let's look at the argument that the President used in his Order regarding that and the underlying reason: the coalition is being misformed. Note that a coalition is not formed correctly, as was the case in article 83 of the Constitution. I'm referring to 83 articles, she's saying that the coalition is formed by factions, it's the right thing to do. But the past composition of Parliament has adopted a clarification of the Rules, which has provided a mechanism for the formation in accordance with this article of the Constitution. For imagine, factions have made decisions by the majority of the votes about entering and creating a coalition, and not all are willing to enter into one or the other factions. And then it turns out that the coalition was created, and there are no 226 votes. And then there's a conflict that doesn't allow decisions to be made again as provided for by the Constitution. Therefore, the Rules provide: the decision of the faction and the personal statements of each MP, the personal signature, and you will recall when a coalition was declared, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk, the chairman of the meeting, then said: “The Secretariat has verified the signatures of the deputies. ” Thus, the President's statements about the unconstitutional order of formation or the expansion of the coalition on the basis of the individual statements made by the deputies violate the constitutional principle of forming a coalition in Parliament. Does it distort the will of the people to form a coalition? Of course not. And there is a political detail. Tell me, which of the deputies, which party, when they went to the elections, claimed that she would go to such a coalition, not another coalition? None, I emphasize, of the party, of any campaigning machine that was created during the elections, claimed that they would create one or another coalition. On the contrary, the greatest struggle between the lists between the parties was between the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and Our Ukraine, between the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and the Socialists, between the Yulia Block of Timoshenko and everyone else. This is a fact that does not even need to be analyzed because it lives in the memory of people today’s campaign that took place a year ago. So to talk about the fact that by creating, or by expanding, coalitions, the choice of people is distorted -- again, it's a reference to completely non-existent arguments, it's a thought-out argument that tries to confirm the rightfulness of adopting the decree. The point is that the President is obliged to warn about threats to sovereignty, to the integrity of the State, and to other factors that cause anxiety. This does come out of a series of articles of the Constitution, but this does not mean that the way to avoid such threats is to stop the parliamentary powers. To that end, he has the veto if he considers the Law to be a threat. He has the right of legislative initiative, he has the principle provided for in the Constitution, the obligation to enforce decrees for all authorities in Ukraine. But I wanted to draw attention to one detail. Article 19 of the Constitution states that the President, like other officials, is obliged to act solely on the basis, within the limits of authority, and in the manner provided for in the Constitution and in the laws of Ukraine. None of these elements are the grounds that are provided for in the 90th article, nor the way in which it was defined in this article, nor the other laws of Ukraine allow the President to issue the decree that he promulgated today. Next. Not referring to article 90 in the Presidential Decree is the first testimony to avoid responsibility for violating this article and the Constitution as a whole. Once again, it alone defines the mechanism and the basis for issuing the decree. Since the President does not refer to it but refers to articles that do not have anything to do with it, this shows that it is not the legal nature of the decree. Or the rightful Supreme Council in its actions that it adopted yesterday and will accept today. The basic condition and the basic conclusion reached by Parliament yesterday and it is perfectly legitimate that today’s adopted presidential decree in connection with its unconstitutionality does not provide for legal consequences for us. Moreover, article 60 of the Constitution provides for responsibility for giving orders, orders, and so forth. If they are illegal, they are unconstitutional. That is why Parliament is acting in clear compliance with its Rules and Constitution and will continue to do so. What the initiators expect is the violation of the Constitution, they hope that the right will be blocked and interfered with the street situation for it and planned in advance, and the great preparatory work by the President's Administration is unfortunately carried out to lead people to Kiev and, by reference to their will, to force Parliament to act in an anti-constitutional manner and to start the elections. I mean, it's not gonna work. At the same time, we cannot look calmly at the way people are being pushed, the position of people on the street. I could suggest to you, myself, President, that we together from the political forces that we represent announce a moratorium on the use of street action to clarify in the legal order of today's Colosseum until the Constitutional Court or the ordinary court of jurisdiction gives an assessment of the law-abiding decisions, particularly the President's decree. Today at 2 p.m., the President intends to meet with the Prime Minister. Yesterday we spent a long time talking to him about the situation, and I'm not going to comment on that, because unfortunately, our conversation was overstepped by the adoption of the decree. However, I would suggest that they consider declaring such a moratorium so that we don't involve people in any kind of dissension between the authorities, but on the wrong footing, because it's the interest of two or three men to take power in any way, knowing that they're taking part in an illegal action that's unsuspecting, because for them. It's a mess that only allows certain political structures or individuals to pilfer, but it doesn't do any good for society. I'd like you to understand that, too. What is the effect on Ukraine of all that is happening? This was strongly said by the MPs, speaking here and the Prime Minister, who spoke with conviction yesterday at the Cabinet of Ministers' first vice-premier meeting, and people seem to know about this danger. But there is another danger that we must warn our society. If we even went to meet the demands of an illegal, unconstitutional decree of the President and went to re-election without fear of them, we would create an extremely dangerous precedent for the election for the term -- ignoring the Constitution when it is convenient for someone. We do not have the right to do so; we must affirm the integrity of the Constitution to all, including the President, the MP, all the authorities in Ukraine. That is why, given this situation, we continue to work in Parliament, in Parliament, and I emphasize that it will work in clear conformity with the Constitution and the Rules, and all other means of neutralizing the consequences of the decree adopted in violation of the Constitution, we hope that they will use the political forces that have shaped Parliament and the public that can influence the situation and form a social opinion and influence the politicians, because the truth, the law and the Constitution are behind us. I wanted us all to know that clearly. Thank you. I'm announcing draft laws. Attention, please. - brought before the Supreme Council by the President: on the amendment of the Ukrainian Act on the judiciary of Ukraine and the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on the Status of Judges. [[new editor]] Why did I announce it now before recess? Because we need to make up our minds, and I'd like to ask your support on such a proposal. Last night we received a letter from the President that he was trying, as he suggested, to rescind these laws by referring to the instability of the political situation. By the way, even before the President's decree, this document was signed before the round table, a meeting with deputies, the heads of factions on consultations. This, by the way, is another testimony to what was previously known, that the signed decree that all of this would be done regardless of how the consultations would be conducted, which would be expressed at the same time. However, article 99 of the Rules stipulates that I ask you to consider this: The bill may be revoked by the subject of the right of the legislative initiative that it has taken before the inclusion of such a bill in the agenda of the Supreme Council’s day session. Thus, today, even if we respect the President as the subject of the legislative initiative, we have no right to withdraw this bill from the consideration. In the second part, if it is included in the order of the day session before its adoption in the first reading on a basis, it may be recalled by decision of the Supreme Council, but then it is withdrawn from consideration. This is what article of the Rules states. Given the extremely serious significance of these two bills relating to the reform of the judicial system of power, and given that this is one of the most, let's say, stricter objects for monitoring by the Council of Europe on the activity of the Parliament of Ukraine, I would suggest that I adopt this bill in the first reading, more faithfully, to decide on its consideration in essence. And I would ask you to receive him in the first reading. But we'll make a decision about that after the break. A break of 30 minutes is announced.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u50	I ask that you announce to the deputies the continuation of the meeting. I've announced a story. The president requests that this issue be removed. The rules do not provide for such a possibility. But the decision of the Supreme Council could, as it were, come upon the proposals of the subject of the legislative initiative. At the same time, the need to consider such a law is essential. But there's a President's proposal, and I'm putting it to a vote. Identify yourself. [[12:34:48]] For the five of us. That's why we're looking at the matter essentially, and the word is given to the head of the committee, Sergei Vasilovich Kiwalov. Please. Draft Act amending the Act on the Sudour of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u51	Both, Alexandre Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u52	He's reading the bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u53	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies. The Justice Committee has considered bills amending Ukraine's laws on the judiciary and the status of judges introduced by the President of Ukraine. I will note that today, both bills should continue to be considered together because they contain more than half a hundred standards of correspondence. This was the conclusion reached by experts from the Council of Europe, recommending the consolidation of both bills. The proposed bill, a new edition of the Judicial Act, proposes to create a narrow system of courts consisting of four subsystems: civil, criminal, economic and administrative justice. Thus, the Higher Civil and Higher Criminal Courts are formed in addition to those of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. They will ensure that things are dealt with in a manner of machination. Arrangements with, by the way, sorry, appeals courts and administrative courts are being established to deal with civil and criminal cases, which together will be the subject of appeals. The judicial protection of citizens’ rights on the ground will be provided by a network of district courts. Under the name of the district courts, district, city, land, and district courts continue to operate. On the second reading, we will suggest that such courts and courts be allowed to deal with all categories of cases, not only civil and criminal, but also economic and administrative. In parallel, the bill proposes the establishment of district administrative criminal and commercial courts. The essence of change is that a citizen has a choice. The first option is to charge the wrong actions of local officials to an existing district or city court at a place of residence, then you won't have to go 200 or 300 kilometers to the district center. The second option is to refer to the District Court, the territorial jurisdiction and the location of which guarantees greater independence from the local authorities. The most complex criminal cases will be dealt with in the first instance by district criminal courts, whose structure will finally allow for the realization of constitutional law and the obligation of the Ukrainian people to participate directly in the execution of justice through the jury. The Supreme Court of Ukraine, as the highest judicial authority in the system of courts of general jurisdiction, will review the decisions of the courts of cassation only under exceptional circumstances. Its purpose will be to ensure unity and the future of the application of the right by all courts in Ukraine. This will preserve the trilane system of accusations: first instance, appeal, cassation. There won't be a double cleavage. An important novelty of the bill is that the Council of Judges of Ukraine, not the President, will appoint the heads and alternate heads of the court. In the second reading, we will recommend the strengthening of the Supreme Council’s supervisory powers on this issue. The bill proposed by a new law on the status of judges clearly sets out for the first time procedures for the preparation of competitive selection and the approval of candidates for judicial office. Arrangements have been made for appointment of judges for five years as President of Ukraine. Sufficient guarantees of the independence and security of judges are provided. At the same time, the basis and order of the disciplinary responsibility of judges are defined in detail, and the service of the judicial inspectors is also established. I am pleased to note that both bills have been the subject of an inexorable study of the judicial corps, which is a wide circle of the legal community. Their position was expressed by professional associations of lawyers, scientific and practical conferences at Odessa and Kharkiv National Law Academys, which brought together the best national experts. And on March 15th, I took part with Sergey Petrovich Headate in a meeting of the Council of Europe's Venice Commission, where the bill came to a satisfactory conclusion. All the forms mentioned were unanimous in one, both bills should be taken as a basis and considered by the Supreme Council. The shortcomings of their content and understanding equipment should be addressed in the process of consideration. We have sufficient results from scientific research and a defined position of society, and it's time for the legislative reform of the system of the judiciary and the status of judges. The Committee on Justice recommends that the Supreme Council adopt both Bills 2934 and 2835 as a basis. Instruct the Justice Committee to prepare these bills for second reading, bringing them together in a single bill. With regard to the 2667 bill on the judicial system, its proposed useful standards and rational approaches will be taken into account by the committee. Dear colleagues, please support these two bills. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u54	Is there a question for the reporter? Yes. Please sign up for the questions. Ten minutes, please, Chechchev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u55	Thank you, Alexander Alexanderovich. Sergey Vasilovich, indeed, or two bills, are bound by correspondence and, indeed, they will allow for the implementation, the initiation of reform of the judicial system. Please tell me, can they make a more independent third branch of power, as now or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u56	That structure of the courts, which is now proposed by these two bills, provides, I have already said in my statement, indeed all the courts, and there will be four high-level specialized courts and they will have the same specialized courts on the ground. And the specific nature of the administration of the judiciary is special, and every judge is procedurally independent. Nor should he submit, nor should he, to the leadership of the judiciary. It's just them. Court leaders, they only coordinate business-related activities with some other judicial-specific activities. That's why we're here, and we're seeing this kind of built-in ship system. You know, some people are telling me, and even our colleagues are saying that a lot of money will be spent on the content of the judicial system. You don't need anything this year. And next year, I think it will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u57	Sergei Vasilovich. Keep talking. One minute. Matvienkov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u58	Matveenkov. A faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Sergey Vasilevich, that this branch of power really requires serious restructuring, serious changes, I think there is no doubt. The confusing system, the lack of transparency, the control mechanism, is not clear, let us say so for those who use this system. And, of course, it needs to be reformed, there is no doubt about that. But I have a question for you as a professional. Say, please, you know, here's the new one -- it's a well-remembered old one. Let's go back to the old days of the Soviet Union. There was a three-stage, clear, transparent system of ships that allowed responses to be received within 60 days, ranging from the first instance to the highest court, to virtually every citizen of the State in a clear and transparent pattern of the system. Don't you think it might be worth taking the basis to study this particular model and this method that would simplify and make this system more transparent? Thank you. Your opinion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u59	But I want to tell you that we got the best of the best out of there. You know, in the last 20 years, we've had virtually no reform. We've got it. Today, we do not provide for the establishment of military courts, we do not provide for a single judicial system, and the Constitution does so, we have incorporated higher economic courts, the system of economic courts. Until 1990-1991, the Supreme Administrative Courts were a separate branch of government. We have created, I believe, in a new environment now and are proposing administrative justice by this bill. It's already earned us, and I think it's the future and the future behind this system.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u60	Zybenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u61	Please pass the word to Matthew Valentine Grigorovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u63	Thank you, Peter Stepanovich. Dear Sergey Vasilovich, please tell us, under this proposed bill, that the General Courts of Appeal, I mean in particular civil and criminal matters, will operate not in the territory of the area, that is, not in the administrative and territorial territory, which we are now using in everyday life, but in the territory of the so-called Appeals District, which is determined not by law, but by the President of Ukraine. So when it comes to creating district courts, please tell me, this will bring the court closer to the people, or it will push them further away from that simple citizen who has to decide whether or not to do something in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u64	I want to tell you that the establishment of district courts, we have, in principle, district courts. The District Economic Courts exist, and district administration courts will already be making a profit this month. But today we give a citizen the right to choose: or he can go directly to a place of residence, i.e. to a district court. If he does not believe that the district court trusts the district court more, then he goes to the district centre to file a claim. I mean, he's got a choice, we're making an area choice today, and if there's no way to go to the district center, go to the district court and the district court will be considered. It's, I think, a citizen's right, he has the opportunity today, we'll give him that right.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u65	I mean, it's not moving away from a citizen, it's staying at the same distance, it's just that we have to look at it as a matter of fact, yes. Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u66	So in the district, he'll look at it if he doesn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u67	Bogchuk asks questions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u68	Vasil Bogchuk, Socialist Party. May I have the floor to the People's Deputy of Mendoza?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u69	Jaroslav Petrovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u70	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Sergey Vasilovich, just a few days ago, not just the legal community, but the people involved in the legal proceedings were shocked by the President's decree calling off the order to appoint the head of the Pecher Court. The fact that such a decree does not withstand criticism from a legal point of view is clear to those who, at least, hold the Constitution in their hands. But the question is, this is an open form of dealing with a man who leads one of the courts in Kiev. How can the proposed law help to avoid such ignorance in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u71	In the bill, we propose that today the President not appoint judges, presidents, vice-presidents of the courts, but the Council of Judges, the judiciary, will be determined and will address this particular issue, and the President must be commended, has renounced these powers, because these powers are not vested in the President, these powers are not provided for in the Constitution. I would like to emphasize that the Venice Commission has also drawn this attention, and one such positive point was that today the Council of Judges would appoint judges to the administrative positions of the judges.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u72	Cowchenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u73	Kravchenko, the Communist faction. Sergei Vasilevich, well, it is clear that in the areas of the current system, the regional courts have usurped power. I'm giving you an example in the Donetsk region, which is known to everyone from the President to the private judge, this Condratiev, to whom no one can do anything. He's doing justice there as a local prince. But I want to ask you a question. Tell me, do these bills take regional power from such princes or not? That's the first question. And what is the role and place in the judicial system of the State judiciary?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u74	I would like to say that in the areas of, well, perhaps if the bill, the princes of the courts or the queens of justice were passed, there would be no more. We're going to create a system that can't be managed from top to bottom. That is, if we had courts of general jurisdiction before, they were subject to the executive branch, above the bottom. That is, if the chief of the court said they were doing it clearly. Today, a little differently, we see a system. That is, today there will be an appeals court of the household, which is not subject to general, chief of general, courts of general jurisdiction. There are now regional or appeals courts of criminal, civil, administrative. By the way, the administrative courts in some areas have been working since yesterday. I mean, like this.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u75	Let me explain.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u76	The system that was before won't be there. This is what we have done, and we are trying to implement directly, naturally, with the help of the Supreme Council, in order to get away from the administration of the courts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u77	Thank you. Have a seat. Who would like to comment on this? Please sign up from the factions first. Now the MPs. For discussion before this, the co-rapporteur is Sergey the Headman, please. No, no, co-reporter, please. Try to make it in five minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u78	I'll do my best, Alexander Alexandrovich. The two bills were linked, so they asked for a joint presentation, then a joint discussion. I'll probably talk about why we need to support and why the committee supports these bills. In fact, as early as December 2005, at a meeting of judges, the last meeting of judges in Ukraine, the President promised that his priority would be judicial reform. After that, he seemed to have fulfilled his word and adopted the concept of reforming or improving the Ukrainian judiciary in order to bring it to European standards. This concept was an expert at the Council of Europe. After this concept, these two bills were properly worked out exactly as the President had approved. These presidents went to great trouble in the Supreme Council, and I will not tell you the whole kitchen, Sergey Vasilovich knows this, how we ripped it out of the Secretary's vault so that on December 27 they would be registered, because it was already the beginning of the trials when the Yulia Timoshenko Block and, accordingly, the Head of the Supreme Court, Onopenko, who was in political power, began to oppose them and agreed that the President would not make them. We made it so that they were introduced. Of course, it's all the more surprising that the President called off these bills yesterday, because the President knows that his stories by Hanna Severinsen and Renata Wolvend asked us that we heard that Onopenko was against, "The Yulia Timoshenko Block" against, and you, as President, you promise that you will support them and that the reform of the court will be carried out. He promised them. So it's strange that, you know, a president who knows that these bills are number one in control of the Assembly's monitoring committee, he calls them off. The other one. You know, the problem is that, on the Presidential Channel, Fifth, probably the most broadcast that the judicial system is today. Recently, there was a question on the ICT network of raids, the quality of justice, the status of judges, the responsibility of judges. These bills are, in principle, designed to change the structure in a way that makes it more accessible and more efficient, the structure of the courts. These bills are aimed at, on the one hand, raising the qualified level of judges, because we have in the Constitution that a judge is a professional judge, but no one teaches that profession. There are vocational schools in all European countries. She had little legal education. Clearly, we can be the minister of justice without legal education, but a judge who has no professional training, how will he, on behalf of the State, render a single court decision? Therefore, it is proposed that judges be trained at least two years of age. Today, this is about the absence of a disciplinary mechanism for judges. That's right. You can't do that. You can't do that. It is proposed to create a national disciplinary commission, judicial inspectors, and it is proposed to create a qualified commission that, under the conditions of anonymous testing, will only select judges or candidates for judges for the positions of judges for the knowledge they will pass, but not for the agreements that are or are said to be selling the positions of judges today. It's about how to minimize the channels of corruption in the judicial system, it's about how to increase the status of judges, and the courts, and the judges, to make it more independent. And this is, of course, a completely different approach to financing a court system that has already been resuscitated. Look, we've been in the Constitution since 1996. During this time the workload on the judicial branch of power has increased in geometric progress, I would say, a thousand times, but the funding goes on to follow the residual principle, not the residual principle, but, as always, the traditional principle: the amount of law enforcement, the repressive system, the amount left over; there was little on the judicial system, the functions were changed. The relevant part of the functions is transferred from the prosecution, from the police, to the KGB. It's from the DMV and so on. And the workload of the courts. We need to look at the structure of the budget. The point is that we can't stand still, we have to start, we have to complete the judicial reform, we have to be in this process. And most of all, I am outraged that Mr. Onopenko, the head of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, has been involved in the political process. Mr. Onopenko, who is forbidden by the Constitution to go to the rostrum or to leave. on the political stand in Parliament and political content. The content of these laws. Mr. Onopenko, who goes on channel “1+1”, is banned by the Constitution from having a political debate on television, coming out and aging against it, and is generally campaigning against these laws. In principle, I believe that we should, Parliament is obliged to change the system, as the classic said: “The system needs to be changed”. There may be many shortcomings, many inaccuracies, much work to be done, but nothing can be done. That is why I am asking Parliament, despite the fact that the President has practically turned down the judicial reform of Ukraine, to support, to accept.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u79	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u80	To accept the first reading and let us unify these bills, and then, when we get to the second reading, perhaps the President's veto, let's see what happens next. But we need to complete judicial reform. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u81	Thank you. Feseenko, please, from the Party of Regions. Follow him, Mandus.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u82	The faction of the Party of the Regions, Fesenko. Dear Alexander Alexander! The need for a judicial system is unquestionable. Along with the changes in the system of the judiciary proposed by the Presidential Bill, I have serious comments from a professional judge. First of all, what is the point of creating a pyramid of courts like district, district and higher specialized courts? If I don’t remember, in 1992, we were already creating district courts in the fields, but they died without having been born. So it's in the area. And now it's proposed to create District Courts of Appeal in 3-4 area one. The concept of judicial reform primarily pursues the aim of bringing justice closer to people, to their ability to defend their rights and interests. But which of the average citizens goes to the district court 200 to 300 kilometers? I think there's a big problem with these courts. The second question. What is the need for the creation of a higher criminal and higher civil courts? In my opinion, the courts of general jurisdiction are now completely dealing with all the tasks that these courts rely on. And you don't have to invent a bicycle that's going to cost our country a lot of money. For all we know, more than a billion dollars will go to create this pyramid. Question three. As a professional who worked for 10 years as the head of the Court of Appeal, I don't understand the purpose of the bill, actually leaving organizational powers to the heads of the courts. People who still maintain order in our poor judicial system. In my view, the transfer of powers of the heads of the courts to the judiciary, as stated in the bill, is nothing more than the desire of the executive branch to intervene in a judicial branch of power, which is a gross violation of the constitutional rules governing the distribution of power to the legislative, executive and judicial branches. We need to move away from double standards in relation to judges. When the court takes one decision, the president says that the court is impartial and fair. When the court makes a different decision, the same party says it's a show. This is the case with the Supreme Court of Ukraine. What's the point? Now, to my profound conviction, we need not to build castles of sand, figuratively speaking, but to improve the procedural laws by which we can build judicial activity. That's why you can adopt this bill in the first reading, but with its substantive work, with the involvement of the Supreme Court of Ukraine, the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine, the High Council of Justice, the Council of Judges of Ukraine, and scientific experts in the field of justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u83	Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich. After him, Matthew.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u84	Dear Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, is convinced that most of us come from the fact that the Pharisees are talking about a European choice without reforming the system of power, the political system of power in Ukraine. But that's exactly the kind of rating it deserves to have any dissemination of European standards and values without a full court reform. I think it shows that the President, who was the initiator of the adoption and parliamentary consideration of the bill on judicial reform, recalled it with his appeal to the Supreme Council. I repeat, it is only natural that, since the President had issued an anti-constitutional decree for the dissolution of Parliament before, he put himself outside the Constitution and I think he committed an official crime in violation of the President's oath. Therefore, it is logical in its actions, but logical in its actions, that parliamentarians should be aware of the role and place of the judiciary as an independent institution in the system of government in the state. Article 55 of the Ukrainian Constitution states that human and civil rights and freedoms are protected by a court of law. I think that each of us, when we receive parliamentary mail, gets up to a dozen calls a week from citizens on the issue of the courts of injustice, and what sin to conceal, enough often and order decisions. I asked myself what statistics were there about turning our citizens to the European Court of Justice. If 2 000,287 Ukrainian citizens were brought before this court in 2003, dissatisfied with the judgments passed, in 2004 there were 7 000,265, in 2005 and 2 000,765, and in the case of 1 February 2007 there were 7 000,250 applications from the European Court of Justice, representing 7.9 per cent of the total number of appeals. Lawyers are having a discussion about the problem — whether it's a judicial organization or a trial. I think it's there and there. In the circumstances that have arisen, I think we need to get out of the fact that there are really discussion positions in the bill that require serious refinement and refinement in the second reading. But in itself, the approach is absolutely correct and it is perceived by our colleagues in the European community, so I propose to support the bill in the first reading and to work on it for the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u85	Matthew Valery Grigorovich, please. After him Chechtev.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u86	Thank you. The Communist faction, Matthew. Dear colleagues! Dear voters! The laws that we're looking at today really have a very sharp, I'd say social meaning. Therefore, first of all, I would like to point out that the Ukrainian Company is constantly underlining the need for immediate judicial reform in Ukraine. At the same time, first of all, we are talking about the need for a return, because it is well recommended in practice in the Soviet times of the election of judges, and that is not what we are offered today. Of course, reforms also require a whole legal system that must protect the interests of our people. Not the group's corporate interests in business and politics. All of this, by the way, is reflected in our pre-election program as well as in the new drafting of the Constitution developed by the UK Company. As for the proposed bills, I'd like to emphasise that they need to, and from this rostrum we've already talked about serious work in preparing them, if we're going to take them in the first reading, when we prepare them for the second reading. I think this job should be carried out by our committee, the Justice Committee first. But what else would I like to focus your attention on, in my opinion, is that our society does not have the legal system in place by these laws. When you look at the procedural possibilities of citizens, once again, in the same Soviet times, they're completely different from what's being proposed in the bill today. It is not justifiable for us to think that the judicial system is getting complicated and should be the authors of the bill to take into account that the creation of the courts, not within the existing administrative and territorial system, but within the limits defined, I emphasize, the President of Ukraine of the so-called districts, the division of the local courts into the district and district will lead to, I am sure, not to approach, but to the removal of justice from the people. So we need to seriously redraft these bills. Once again, such vital problems must first be accepted with the support of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u87	Chechtev, go after Bogchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u88	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. I fully agree with the opinion expressed by the People's MP, Mr. Alexanderovich, that today a party of war from the immediate surroundings of the President is grossly manipulating its opinion, both when signing individual decrees by the President and when initiating certain bills. And to date, unfortunately, the President is simply not alone in making the most important public decisions. Now, with regard to the specific draft law amending the Law on Sudokustura. This bill provides for the consolidation in one act of the laws in force in Ukraine concerning the judiciary, the status of judges, the order of election and the release from office of a professional judge of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and others. The project proposes the creation of two types of local judges as first - instance courts and district courts: district farm courts, district administrative courts, district criminal courts. It is proposed to create a system of appeals courts. From civil and criminal appeals courts, appeals courts, appeals courts, these courts are formed in appeals districts according to the decree of the President of Ukraine. It is proposed to create a system of higher specialized courts, which are the case courts of the Supreme Civil Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Criminal Court of Ukraine, the Supreme Economic Court of Ukraine and the Supreme Administrative Court of Ukraine. It is proposed that the network of military courts be completely eliminated. I fully agree with the opinion of Sergey Vasilovich, head of the committee, that most of these rules and provisions of this bill are linked and correspond to the Act amending the Law on the Status of Judges of Ukraine amending the Law on the Status of Judges. And I think that the adoption of these two bills is a very serious step towards creating an independent judiciary. I propose to vote and adopt the very important two bills in the first reading. And then in the process of looking at second readings, they're said to be optimal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u89	Thank you. Richchuk.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u90	Vasil Bogchuk Socialist Party Ternopil. Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished voters! As I analyze the appeals, the complaints that have recently come to my address, I want to say that one in three refers to the legality of the decisions of our courts. Complaints about objectivity, prejudice. And people worry when the judicial reform finally begins. And if we are adopting these bills today, this is the beginning of judicial reform, then I will vote with two hands for their support and adoption. I recently had a joint meeting between the factional MPs "Contrabandi-Stop" and the college of the Ukrainian State Customs Service. The question we're asking is the fight against the contraband that's going on today, that's the filling of the budget. And on the side of the Customs College, we got complaints and complaints that today our courts are covering up those who are helping smugglers. 95 percent of the people who have acted wrongly for the support of smugglers have been released from customs, our courts have been returned, and today they continue to work and do their black work. They cried: Help, do, influence the courts. They requested and called specific figures that more than one billion had been seized, confiscated and so on. But once this product passes through the courts, it gets twice as low as the cost of the state budget. As far as the specific drafts are concerned, I would like to propose my own amendment. We say that the head of the court is responsible for organizing the work of the courts. But right now we're taking the selection function, the clearance of the frames. These are assistant judges, judges’ advisers, judges’ secretaries, and so forth, passing on these functions to the judicial authorities. So whether he can manage properly or not, he organizes the work of the judges without affecting the frame. I think it's going to have to be transferred, too. Whether the judicial inspectors on whom 200 judges are established can organize their work properly should also be discussed in a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u91	Thank you. Have a seat. We finished the discussion. Do the authors have a desire to comment on this in the closing word? None. The Minister of Justice has a word. Please, Alexander Volodymyrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u92	Dear Alexander Alexander, the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine! The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has considered a project initiated by the Head of State and wishes to stress that the conceptual approaches proposed in these laws are approved by the Government of Ukraine. And the questions that were raised today after a discussion that could make access to justice more difficult require unconditional elaboration in the second reading, this applies, particularly, and the merit of creating district criminal courts, we can do absolutely without it, we have enough district courts approaching temporary detention cells, where we can organize appropriate work and many other points that are there. The main thing is to take a step in this case. First. About the creation of a professional court of judges for the proper selection, the question of disciplinary conformity of judges, the question of having a reasonable time to go through trials and that we should have a combination of specialization of the courts with their territorial approach and that we should take a step in making Ukrainian justice more accountable to Ukrainian society. I ask you to support two bills in the first reading.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u93	In summarizing this discussion, I will point out that many speakers have expressed concern that the adoption of this law will complicate the system of justice and remove the court from the citizen, from the subject of a right that needs a just solution when his rights are violated. Nevertheless, the reasoning of the rapporteurs and the statement of the Minister of Justice, as well as our declaration of a desire to join the European community and adapt our legislation, including in the system of justice to the European, I think, leaves us no doubt as to the need to support the project in the first reading. But really working out then to make it easy out there is a system that is accessible to people, so that there's a professional selection of judges and their preparation for this kind of activity. And for the first time, and that's what worries citizens today most, the responsibility of the judges for the decisions they make. This reference was made to the tradition of the Soviet Court of Justice. I don't think anyone has any doubts that it was a clear system. But the quality of the work of judges was determined by the quality of the work of party committees in the selection and placement of personnel. You know that. Since there are many subjects today who would like to do so, it is likely that the judicial system should be separated from those who would like to place the footage there today, as one of the speakers spoke about it today, and it is necessary to ensure that the structure that will control the quality of the work of judges is truly established. So let's support the President's proposal to adopt it on the first reading of this bill. And besides, I'm going to say that the project wasn't called off by the President, the initiative was so demonstrated, but it's against the rules. And that's what we've been dealing with from the very beginning. So I'm putting to the vote first draft Law 2834 for adoption in the first reading and I'm asking you to determine. [[13:20:07]] For 246 And draft Law 2835 amending the Law on the Status of Judges, which I also put to the vote in the first reading. [[13:20:33]] For 254 Decision taken. At the same time, we provide a protocol commission for the committee to merge these two bills, to merge them into one bill, to prepare them for a second reading, taking into account the comments made by the deputies during the discussion. No, there's no need to vote. This is essentially the professional responsibility of the committee itself, and it can take the same initiative. A draft Law on International Technical Assistance is under consideration. The rapporteur is Ukrainian national deputy Karakai Yuri Vasilovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u94	Dear Chief, distinguished colleagues! This long-suffering law, it has already been considered not once in the Supreme Council, not this project, but the laws on the subject have been rejected all the time. Perhaps today is not the best day, but we hope that everything will be all right. International Technical Assistance Bill. Ukraine receives international technical assistance throughout all its years of independence. In total, more than six billion U.S. technical assistance was received. Unfortunately, however, there is not a single legislative act to regulate this area to date. The only way these issues are regulated now is by the relevant decree of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine since 2001. It should be noted that, as far as the need for such legislation is concerned, in 2005 the Ukrainian government in force approved the strategy for the adoption of international technical assistance for the period 2005-2007, which is defined as a prerequisite for the successful completion of the strategy's tasks, namely the adoption of the relevant profile law. In our opinion, the authors of the law, the adoption of this law will allow the issue to be settled in this area, which will lead to an increase in technical assistance to Ukraine, and that the new bill introduces the concept of providing technical assistance to Ukraine to other countries of the world. This is widely used in other countries of the world, and in most countries it doesn't require much budget expenditure, because typically large donor countries help other countries on. For example, countries like Egypt. This may not be called a powerful economic country, it provides technical assistance, including for Ukraine through training professionals. But they only invest 10-15, 20 percent at most, and other funds give it to countries like the United States, the European Union. President of Ukraine's decision last year created an appropriate agency to provide technical assistance to other countries in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, given that there is no profiling bill that regulates these things, this agency does not work, and we could already provide assistance, for example, by way of -- this is the issue that was discussed in the MMS and interested ministries -- Ukraine could provide assistance by way of training professionals for third countries for, for example, demining in Afghanistan or in other minefield countries. We have great experience in this area. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u95	Thank you. Dear colleagues who have questions, please sign up. Yes, please, six minutes. Gardens.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u96	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Can you please tell me what the economic effect of implementing this law is? And what are the prospects of actually applying it to the provision of technical assistance? Well, it's an economic effect. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u97	It's hard to talk about a particular economic effect, because getting international technical assistance is usually about importing benefits, if that's the way it is, there, providing equipment, well, this year or at the end of the past we voted with you about the Republic of Korea's telemedicine agreement. They were doing a telemedicine clinic in Kiev, if you remember. Appropriately, the equipment that was imported had to be made up of a decision to grant import aid, and we accepted it by law. And with the Republic of Korea, a separate agreement on international technical assistance between Ukraine and the Republic of Korea was put in place and approved by the Supreme Council. So these things, these issues are now being resolved through the formation of separate international agreements. Individual international agreements will also continue to be made between countries. But this will be the basic law that defines the notion that the provision of Ukraine is concerned, and what concerns the provision of technical assistance to Ukraine, it first regulates these issues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u98	Thank you, Miss. Chechtov Mikhailo, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u99	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Honourable Yuri Vasilovich is indeed becoming a very important bill for the State because he regulates such a very serious sector of state activity in obtaining international technical assistance, because it is large financial resources. And did I correctly understand that, they say, the adoption of this bill will allow not only to use and attract more funds in this direction, through international technical assistance, but also Ukraine can use this direction to provide international technical assistance to others and to benefit the state of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u100	Yes, of course. I have already set an example for Egypt. Every year, Egypt received about $400 million from large donor countries for these purposes. He added a little bit to himself and implemented it through projects. For example, Ukrainian experts traveled to Egypt to learn. I can't give other examples right now in Ukraine, but even after this teaching of Ukrainian experts, because it's been for years, and it's not a year, it's been held up by teachers, it's been maintained by local infrastructure, because Ukrainian delegations have come, lived, studied, driven. And it has to be pointed out, of course, that one country's technical assistance, it's as popular as it is in this country itself: those citizens who have been taught there are usually representatives of this country, because something remains in the soul, some remain in knowledge. Among other things, it could be some additional markets. If we are.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u101	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u102	exchange of minefields, then certainly we can implement the equipment that we use in the armed forces too much to implement in other countries.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u103	Thank you, Yuri Vasilovich. Have a seat, please. As reported by Deputy Head of the Committee on Economic Policy of Plitników Aleksy Vitaliyovich. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u104	Dear chairman, distinguished national deputies. The Economic Policy Committee of the Supreme Council discussed at its meeting the draft Law on International Technical Assistance. Accordingly, the submission of our committee is made. Indeed, throughout Ukraine’s independence, the State has benefited from international technical assistance. Even we have an indicator like the ratio of foreign direct investment to international technical assistance to volume. It's three to one. That's essentially a very big indicator. But once again, throughout all our years of independence, we did not have the right legislation to use this aid. Equally, as was the lack of legislative aid provided by Ukraine to other countries. I want to emphasize in particular that this law, it's so framed, it's categorical, it defines the basics, it defines the problems of the donor, the recipient, the coordination of technical assistance. And besides, he doesn't touch the problem of benefits. These problems are covered by the relevant tax laws. So you can't blame this law for having some kind of secret matter or something that's got some kind of interest in it. Taking into account the above, the Economic Policy Committee proposes to support the bill in its first reading and to take it as a basis for taking into account the relevant comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u105	Thank you. Any questions? None. Please, who wants to participate in the discussion, please register with the factions. Yes, there are no wanters of factions. Which one of the National Deputies? Same thing. So we're going to vote. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law on international technical assistance, registration number 2040. Please vote. [[13:31:40]] For 243 Decision taken. Dear colleagues, we need to get into the agenda and consider the Supreme Council's draft regulation on some measures to prevent constitutional breach and ensure the non-interference of the National Bank of Ukraine in actions that threaten constitutional law. You've got a draft order for number 3426. I'll put it to the vote on the agenda and the agenda. [[13:32:29]] For 253 Copy that. It's very short, it's, more faithfully, it's very short. It goes to complement the decisions we made with you yesterday and what comes out of the discussion of the situation and how it develops. I'll get to know this project. Some measures to prevent constitutional violations and ensure the noninterference of the National Bank of Ukraine in actions that threaten constitutional law. In order to ensure constitutional order, public tranquillity and stability in the state of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides. First. Pending the adoption by the Constitutional Court of Ukraine of a decision on the conformity of the Constitution of Ukraine, the constitutionality of the Presidential Decree of 2 April 2007 No. 264 on the permanent termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine to prohibit the National Bank of Ukraine and its officials from participating in any way in the financing of the measures provided for by that decree. And the second. This decision takes effect from the moment it is adopted. Is there a need to discuss it? None. I'm voting on the number 3426 ruling on the basis. Please vote. [[13:34:06]] For 247 Copy that. Will there be additions and observations? In general, I am voting on the adoption of the whole of the Regulation "On certain measures to prevent violations of the constitutional system and to ensure the non-interference of the National Bank of Ukraine in actions that threaten constitutional law". Registration number 3426. Please vote. [[13:34:44]] For 252 It's been decided. Thank you. Dear colleagues! Let us move on to the section “In summary procedure”, but in order to do so we need to make a decision, please vote on the list of issues you have to consider in the summary procedure. Please vote. [[13:35:18]] For 252 Copy that. The Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons is under consideration. [[on the Procedure for the Cessation of Operators]] [[project of the People's Deputy, Goncharov]] Registration number 2641. Reports Matvienkov Sergey Anatoliyovich, head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u106	Respected Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, the Industrial Policy and Enterprise Committee, considered at a meeting on 19 December 2006, introduced by the People's Deputies of Goncharov and Kunchenk, a draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on the State Regulation of Legal Persons and Personal Persons of Entrepreneurs. The main task of the bill is to create conditions for the establishment of a full and reliable list of legal entities and individuals registered in Ukraine, which is a prerequisite for ensuring State control functions and for protecting the interests of all members of civil relations. The Chief Scientific and Expert Office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, in its opinion of 20.12., determines that the draft law as a result of the first reading cannot be adopted as a basis for subsequent comments and proposals. The members of the committee also considered the bill and suggested that it be sent for further work by the authors, but then we worked again, so to speak, directly with the authors and directly worked with the Government. And I have an offer of this, let's take it on first reading. Why? Because this bill is going to clear up the base that exists today, this is a mechanism, and we're going to talk about how we can clear this air up for one day. Those firms that weigh above tax today are those firms that do not allow for a normal system of accounting and monitoring of their activities. Therefore, there was a suggestion that, let us take it up on first reading so that we could then form a committee meeting, together with the authors, a barrier mechanism that would not prejudice the rights of entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u107	Thank you. Any questions? None. Anyone who wishes to participate in the discussion, I ask that two “for” – two “against” – sign up. Yes, please, Mikhailo Chechetov, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u108	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, honourable national deputies, the project proposes to implement a system of measures aimed at ensuring the completion of a single national register of legal persons and natural persons - entrepreneurs, which is carried out in accordance with the Ukrainian Law on the National Registration of Legal Persons and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs - in order to ensure the openness of information on these subjects, which in turn will contribute to the stability of civil circulation. The purpose of the bill is to create conditions for the determination of the full and reliable listing of legal persons and natural persons who are entrepreneurs in Ukraine, which is a prerequisite for ensuring State control functions and for protecting the interests of all parties to civil relations. While supporting the proposal of the drafters of the bill on the need for the completion and formation of the Single State Register of Legal Persons and Natural Persons - Entrepreneurs, we also determine that the ways of carrying out the simplified business termination procedure proposed by the bill are at odds with some. Some existing legislation and may result in unjustified interference by public authorities in the entrepreneurial activities of economic operators. I propose that this bill be adopted in the first reading and given that the second reading procedure is being finalized, it is said to be the optimal content of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u109	Thank you. Have a seat, please. Question completed. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft Act amending the Ukrainian Law on State Registration of Legal Persons and Business Persons. [[on the Procedure for the Cessation of Operators]] Registration number 2641. Please vote. [[13:40:13]] For the 250. Copy that. The draft Law amending the Ukrainian Law on Electricity is under consideration, the draft national deputy Saucuk, registration number 2579. Report to the committee's head on the fuel and energy complex of nuclear policy and nuclear security, Bronnnikov Vladimir Konstantinovich, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u110	Dear colleagues! Under the applicable Electricity Act, a consumer who has taken more than a contractual amount of electricity is fined twice. In the fourth call, the deputies freed educational institutions, the population, vocational and technical institutions and higher education institutions from double fines. But we have forgotten that public utilities exist in institutions that are extremely important, such as children's and youth sports schools. We have forgotten that there are boarding schools, pre-school institutions, general education schools themselves, which also sit on a very small budget and also need our support. Therefore, your attention is requested to amend the Act, which is exempt from double fines by those institutions in public or communal property. Therefore, the law is simple, clear, sporting institutions allow, I believe, their primary role in saving our young people from drugs, from drug addiction and our task with you to create conditions so that they can work as long as possible in the budget we are now providing them. The Committee has considered the bill, invites it to support it in its first reading and in general, since it is as clear and simple as possible. The Office of the Expert is of the opinion that all fitness facilities may be used under this law. Yes, there may be private schools, private sports institutions may rent these.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u111	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u113	Please have a seat. Who wants to share in the discussion? Two in, two in. Yes, please, Mikola Sadowa, prepare Chetcheva. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u114	Mikola Sadov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. As far as the bill is concerned, it is important for the educational institutions of Ukraine, the first step is already taken with regard to the educational institutions for the exemption from double pay for electricity if the corresponding limits are exceeded. The fact is that the weather is difficult to adjust in such a way as to avoid the use of electricity that goes to lighting and not just lighting, including getting heat so that in the classrooms, in the appropriate rooms of others, normal conditions are created. So we're going to support this bill, we're going to vote, it's on the order of the day, and I'm calling on the deputies to vote for it, and we're going to be grateful for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u115	Thank you, Nicholas Illich. Please, Mikhailo Vasilovich Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u116	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich! Dear National Deputies! We are now considering a very important social bill. The draft law is designed to improve the complex situation at the cost of electricity consumption, which has been established in educational institutions in Ukraine, which is financed by the state budget, by applying to some categories of double-sized educational establishments, I reiterate, the double size of pay over contractual consumption of electricity. According to the author, they were left out of the category of premium consumers at preschools, public education schools, evening schools, boarding schools, children's sports schools of state and municipal property. The author proposes that these categories of consumers be added to the list of benefits provided by electricity to increase social protection. I propose to adopt a very important social bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u117	Thank you. Question completed. Let's be clear. I am voting on the adoption of the draft Law amending the Law on Electricity in the first reading. Registration number 2579, please. [[13:46:09]] For 251 Decision taken. The draft Law on Amendments to Certain Laws of Ukraine is under consideration, the draft of the People's Deputy Lebedev. [[on the bringing into conformity of legislative acts in connection with the renaming of individual government bodies]] Registration number 2712. Jury Borisovich's raven, but I can't see it. So, who are the drafters here? Lebedev and Crook. And Lebedev isn't here, is he? Then let's pass on this bill. Who is in favour of moving his consideration, please vote. [[13:47:06]] For 245 The bill is being tabled. We're going to need to consider two bills for concessional activity. But since one of them is 2883, the other is governmental, not included, so I am voting on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Construction and Exploitation of Roads. Registration number 3258. Please vote. [[13:47:55]] For 251 Questions are included in the agenda. Let's start the discussion. A draft Act amending some of Ukraine’s concession laws is under consideration. Registration number 2883, National Deputy Zubko Yuri Grigorovich. It was Zubko. Okay. Let us, then, be the head of the Committee on Transport and Communications’s Subcommittee. Nor is it. Is it? Huh? Please, Vitaly Petrovich. You're talking about 2883 first, and then I'm going to ask you to think about the government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u118	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications reviewed the draft Act amending certain Ukrainian laws relating to the implementation of constitutional activities, registration No. 2883 of 11.01.2007 by the People's Deputies of Zubko, Potapov and Rybeka. Bill 3258 of the Cabinet of Ministers has also been received, which is essentially 90 per cent identical. Therefore, 2883 draft law amending the Ukrainian Act on the implementation of constitutional activities is rejected by the subcommittee. [[Registration 2883 dated 11.01.2007 by the People's Deputies of Zubko, Potapov, Rybeka]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u119	Thank you, sit down, please. The drafter of the bill appeared. Please, Yuri Grigorovich Zubko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u120	Ladies and gentlemen, I have introduced a bill that has defined the legal aspects of creating favourable conditions for the implementation of investment projects in the area of construction and operation of road transport under concessional conditions. After the registration of my bill, a bill was introduced by the government, which was processed by ministries and offices. Both of these bills were discussed on a profile committee. And given that the government bill is, well, more perfect, I propose to adopt a government bill on the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u121	Thank you. Please, we will now hear the bill of government. Then we'll figure it out. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Construction and Exploitation of Roads, registration number 3258. Reported the head of the State Highway Service, Demishkan Vladimir Fedorovich. Please. Get on board.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u122	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies! The development of automobiles in Ukraine is a prerequisite for the continued socio-economic development of the state and its integration into Europe. This big problem needs a lot of money. The budget provides a scientifically sound need to finance the road economy for only a third. Alternative sources of financing are needed to build new roads and rebuild existing ones. In many parts of the world, roads are built on credit costs and concessional terms. The experience of investing in road agriculture in an existing legislative field has shown that the main problem is Ukraine’s imperfect laws on road construction under concessions. The purpose of the law that is being considered today is to create favourable conditions for additional nonstate investments in road construction. The draft law provides for guarantees for concessionaires to return investment at low traffic rates, the allocation of financial risks between the State and the concessionaire at the time of the creation of the road, the extension of the concession for the reconstruction, the repair and operation of the roads, the improvement of the procedure for determining the object of the concession and the winner of the concession contest. Unlike the same project, the bill introduced by the distinguished National Deputies Zubko, Potapov and Rybek, the government draft law takes into account the observations made by the Ministry of Profiles and the Ministry of Justice. We are grateful to the distinguished people's deputies for their attention to the problem of road development, but please support the government's draft law with registration number 3258 in the first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u123	Thank you, Vladimir Fedorovich, sit down, please. Yes, the committee's opinion. Vitaly Petrovich Bort, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u124	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished members of the people! The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on Transport and Communications considered draft Ukrainian Law 3258 of 02.03.2007 amending the Ukrainian Laws on Construction and Maintenance of Roads, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. As I said before, the bill is in fact identical to the one we have considered before the people's deputies. It also aims to create a more favourable environment for investment projects in the area of construction, reconstruction, repair, operation of roads under concession, involving private investors. It is proposed, together with the concession for the construction and operation of road roads, to introduce new forms of concession, i.e. for the reconstruction and repair and subsequent operation, and for the operation of roads only. The procedure for competition for participation in concession projects in the field of road transport is also improving, inter alia, through the stages of the competition, the pre-qualification of applicants and the evaluation of bids. The requirements of the Competition Commission have been identified. It is clarified that the classification of road to pay is based on feasibility studies. The draft does not provide for concessionaires to receive tax benefits. It must be said that the project, as we have considered before, does not address all the problems of concessional activities in the construction and operation of roads. We believe that all shortcomings and comments will be addressed by second reading. On the basis of the statement, the Committee proposes a draft law, registration number 3258 of 02.03.2007, amending the Ukrainian Laws on Construction and Exploitation of Roads, introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u125	Thank you. Please. Who wants to share in the discussion? Two — “for”, two — “against”. There may not be those who oppose it. I wasn't wrong. Please, Polyakov. Please. Chechatov. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u126	Mikhailo Chechetov, faction of the Party of Ukraine. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies. In my opinion, of these two bills, the government bill 3258 is more meaningful and thorough. The bill defines the legal aspects of creating a more favourable environment for investment projects in the areas of construction and operation of road transport under concession conditions. In order to implement the bill, it is proposed to make appropriate changes to the Ukrainian Roads Act, “About concessions” and to adopt a new edition of the Ukrainian Law on Construction and Exploitation of Roads, by modifying its name in the Ukrainian Law on Construction, Reconstruction, Repair and Exploitation of Roads. It is offered alongside concessions for the construction and operation of roadways to introduce new forms of concession, for reconstruction, repair and further exploitation, as well as for the operation of automobiles. In order to improve the procedure for the identification of motor vehicles. In order to improve the procedure for determining the object of the concession and conducting the concession contest, there is a need to develop a technical and economic basis for the project. For the purpose of the distribution of financial risks, the State is required to participate in the financing of construction, reconstruction, and renovation of the concession. In order to improve the winning procedure, two stages of the concession contest are available, the previous qualifications of the contenders, and the evaluation of the bids. There is also compensation for investments through the cost-effective operation of road vehicles, the granting of state compensation to concessionaires for damages and low-cost concessions. I propose to adopt this very important bill in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-03-m0.u127	Thank you. Question completed. Let's be clear. Because Zubko, the author of the bill, proposed not to put his bill to the vote. He's proposing to support the government bill, so let's probably start voting on the government bill. I am voting on adoption as a basis in the first reading of the draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Construction and Exploitation of Roads, registration number 3258. Please vote. [[13:58:48]] For 249 Thank you. Decision taken. Yes, Your Honor, before the break came, we are asked to inform you that today the heads of state administration, the Presidential Vertical, have gathered at the President's Secretariat and, under the requirement of discharge, have been forced to sign an appeal to the President in support of his anti-constitutional decisions. This is a testimony to the kind of democracy we have in place. At this morning’s meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Break till 4:00.
