ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u1	Please take your seats as deputies. Sit down, sit down. Prepare to register. A roll call is being made. [[16:04:02]] They've shown a desire to work 326 people's deputies so far. The evening session shall be declared open. For 14 hours, we conducted a series of such intensive consultations on the content of the Electoral Law. I'm stressing that they're really not easy, and that's why we're now working on a table of differences that should be given to the text of the law. Clearly, without it, we can't just vote. In this connection, there is a proposal to consider laws on Ukraine’s entry into WTO for the time being, the list provided for in the relevant joint document. I would ask that we identify ourselves on this point -- put them in the order of the day, look at it essentially, and now we have to go first vice-premier to report, he's on his way. Ivanovich! He'll be here in a few minutes. You're going to solve the procedural issues, and I think it's going to be just by the way. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u2	Yes, dear fellows, we must include in. We need to put in the agenda and consider Bills No. 0922 – Draft Law on State Biosafety in the Creation, Testing and Practical Use of Genetically Modified Organisms and Bill No. 3595. They're interconnected because Project 0922 is us. Anyway, let's turn it on, then I'll explain. 0922 and 3595. Please vote for inclusion. [[16:06:31]] For-187 I'm talking to those who are today looking for compromise. We are now considering draft laws related to Ukraine’s accession to WTO. And that's why we have to leave them in the daytime and look at them. Bill 0922 was adopted in 2002 in the first reading. The Cabinet of Ministers is now introducing the same bill, but a fresher one at 3595. Therefore, there is a proposal for a vote of 0922 to be lifted after the first reading and for consideration of 3595 in the first and second readings. That's the question. Write down who wants to speak. One minute from the factions, please. Please, Matvienkov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u3	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues, our faction did not vote in favour of this bill in the daytime order, not because we have specific claims to this bill. We are categorically like this. We cannot today wage a race of galloping around Europe, in a harsh manner, to vote “a cat in a bag that is not clear which laws, which have not been passed by the committees, have no economic justification, has no economic justification. We are enacting promising laws that will regulate our economic activities once we enter the STO. Knowing that this is, knowing what a difficult process this is, knowing how our economy can respond painfully to certain things, we cannot risk situations like this today. We would therefore be prepared to include them in the agenda, but in order to draw conclusions on these bills, I believe that it would be necessary to allow the committees to work on them so that we can hear the government's opinion, look at the economic calculations, and only then take decisions on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u4	Please, Matthew. Symphony microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u5	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! The Communist faction will not vote in favour of this package on principled grounds, defined above all on the basis that we stand in favour of the protection of a national national producer. And in this case, when it comes to the use of genetically modified organisms, I would like to address all of us once again: we open the Pandora box, we give the opportunity to do everything that is produced or grown abroad in a non-use environment on our own territory, and to sell to underdeveloped States or poor people and so on, it will lead to mass diseases and others, and other consequences for our citizens. We are categorically opposed to such approaches, and I support Sergei Anatolievich in the fact that these bills have not been thoroughly studied, they have not been worked out by the relevant committees, and there are no findings of scientific and expert management. In this case, some of the preferences are granted abroad.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u6	Chubarov, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u7	Thank you. Dear colleagues! We have, according to the President's decree on the last day, the last hours can be said to vote on laws aimed at conducting and ensuring transparent elections. Unfortunately, instead of putting all the forces into agreement on the contradictions that we have in those bills that we have either failed to vote on or have not yet reached, we are now wasting our time on completely different issues. And I'd also like to say that some of the illogical actions of individual factions that go into the coalition are, because where they're talking about electoral issues, they insist and they tend to coalition, let's say they listen to their interests. And this is where the government passed the bill, but two factions don't vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u8	Chechtev, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u9	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished people's deputies. I cannot understand politicians from the opposition factions of BUT and Our Ukraine, when they constantly declare their intention to integrate as quickly as possible. But when a declaration is converted into real steps in this direction, it is done in exactly the opposite and opposite. A party of regions, which is a democratic party in the form and party of the European type, we say that we will support the laws on joining the SOT and call upon our colleagues from the BIT, from our Ukraine, not to exchange and support their declarations with a specific vote on the packet of documents to enter the STO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u10	Yes, factions exchanged. Dear colleagues, once again, I have already explained why we should include in the agenda two interconnected bills, number 0922 and 3595, which are the national biosecurity system. Because 0922 we are adopting a decree that cancels the results of the 2002 vote on a bill that we then passed in the first reading. And that's how we open the road to the 3595 bill. For the inclusion of the daily Bills 0922, 3595 on the State Biosafety System, please identify yourself. [[16:12:57]] For 240 The question is included. The factions, please. Region Party – 175, Block Timoshenko – 12, “Our Ukraine” – 45, Socialists – 2, Communists – 0, non-fractional – 6. Bill No. 0922. Project Order of the People's Deputy of Zabolotsky. Is it Zabolotick? None. Then, with your permission, I will read what my colleague, Zabolotick, asks. According to part two of article 90 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules of Procedure, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decrees: to repeal the decision of the Supreme Council of Ukraine of 28 November 2002 on the adoption as a basis of the draft Ukrainian Law on the State Biosafety System in the creation, testing, transportation and practical use of genetically modified organisms. Registration number 0922 and withdraw the bill. I would like to vote on draft resolution 0922. Let's determine. [[16:14:24]] For 326 It's been decided. And that opens the way for us to consider the question at 3595. A draft law on the State Biosafety System is being considered in the creation, testing, transportation, and use of genetically modified organisms. Report to Deputy Minister of Economy Friday’s Valérie Teziyovich, please. Get ready from the science and education committee who will be ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u11	First of all, I would like to say that the package of laws or bills that are being passed in the vast majority of its members is purely technical and it does not actually change any norm, and the principles of regulation in the field of external economic activity, it only defines certain parameters. Unlike most laws, the law that is proposed for your consideration now, the State Biosafety System in the creation, testing, transportation and use of genetically modified organisms, has been developed for the first time by a team of experts from several ministries: the Ministry of Health, Agriculture, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Economics, Justice, Finance. And today, it is very important for us that this is an area that is practically unregulated in Ukraine. Today, the use of genetically modified organisms increases year after year and requires the creation of national and international security systems to prevent their uncontrolled distribution and use. This regulation exists today in most of the developing countries of the world and in many developing countries. The creation of a legislative framework for dealing with genetically modified organisms is also an important aspect of the international system of dealing with these products. And the adoption of this bill is aimed at regulating the following areas: genetic engineering activities carried out in this field; national tests of genetically modified organisms; national registration of genetically modified organisms; and their production; the economic use of genetically modified organisms; export; import; and transit of genetically modified organisms. All of this exists today, and it is not settled today. So this bill provides for legal and organizational principles for regulating relations in this area. And the main tasks of the law are to protect human health and the environment, to define the principles of legal regulation and biosecurity that must be followed in the pursuit of genetic engineering, to create conditions for the safe practical use of genetically modified organisms for farm purposes, to determine the rights and duties of participants in genetic engineering. The draft law regulates the basic principles of dealing with these organisms in Ukraine, defines the areas of responsibility of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine, the central executive authorities, and economic operators. And the project is based on the principle of prejudice to environmental risks and human health in dealing with genetically modified organisms. This project is not distributed to humans, is not applied to humans, to tissues, and to individual cells in the human body. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u12	Thank you. Are there any questions? No questions asked. Have a seat, please. Yeah, from the committee, is anyone ready? No one was authorized? I see. Who wants to share in the discussion? Sign up for factions. Yes, please, on an individual basis, who has a wish? Yeah, four factions, twelve. Give me 15 minutes, then. Please, Matthew, follow him. Symphony microphone, please prepare for Drymas.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u13	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, respectable voters. I would like to state that the Communist faction will vote categorically against the adoption of this Act, based on the following principled positions that concern us today. First. Today, an agro-industry complex is being destroyed and we are losing enormous potential, which has been producing environmentally sound products and providing children to an old man on real Ukrainian national products, and the people have protected them from the various possible consequences of using foods that are not studied today and are not protected. Second. In the country, as we understand it with you, today there are epidemics and epidemics such as tuberculosis. It is a social disease, it is a weakened organism and the consequences can touch millions of our citizens when they eat this modified product already genetically. Next. This problem is of concern to the whole world today, the whole world in concern, because the developed States are practically trying not to use it in their territory, because it is a product for enriching a particular group of people and supplying it to underdeveloped States in order to supposedly fight poverty and to feed people. This law, this law, in my view, will be broad enough to legalize the various practical schemes by which this product will be imported and over-reached. But I also have a very serious concern today about the fact that virtually these draft laws on Ukraine's accession to the STO are now becoming a territory for experimenting, especially for such products, which is related to genetically modified products. I have seen this draft law and again, and again, I have seen that Ukraine today does not have enough base to put a screen on the border. Furthermore, at the scientific and technical levels, society is not prepared to see what food will consume and what consequences. Once again, the country is being subjected to tremendous consequences because people will consume those products that were originally grown for the sole purpose of obtaining over-the-countries rather than feeding the people with clean food. The Communist faction strongly protested such experiments against the people of Ukraine and would vote against it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u14	Please, Jaroslav Suhi, follow him Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that the language in this bill is not only going and not so much so, to say the introduction of genetically modified organisms as to the improvement of state control. So importing or not importing depends not on this bill. The market relations themselves and the globalization processes where Ukraine can't stand apart or anywhere on the sidelines dictate the presence in Ukraine of such genetically modified organisms. I want to remind you that in the '70s, '80s, the United States and Europe have adopted legislation to ensure health. So I don't think or see why we shouldn't ensure that we create a legislative base, deal with genetically modified organisms, all the more so as it's one of Ukraine's obligations to join the World Trade Organization. And I want to draw your attention to something else. This bill does not require any additional funding from the state budget of Ukraine. And then, we're with you now, let's not forget, since the 1990s we've been in this process, I mean, Ukraine's accession to the Cartagena Protocol, for which we voted back in 2002, and before 1998, when the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine approved the interim import order and the main, state testing, registration and control of the use of transgenic varieties of plants in Ukraine. I agree with Peter Mikolayovich Simonenko that our Ukrainian agricultural animal production is one of the most common and quality in the world, and that is what I have found in the United States, where our natural juices of varieties are extremely expensive: “Galka”, “source” and others. Why? But because they are clean, they are not genetically polluted, no one seeks to increase weight or improve artificial unnatural quality. But we made a commitment to the World Trade Organization, and this bill will strengthen State control over the quality and health of our Ukrainian consumer. So I think the faction of the Ukrainian Party of Regions will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u16	Thank you. Dear colleagues, it's just that we're discussing a little bit of another bill. Yavorowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u17	Vladimir Yavorowski, Yulia Block Timoshenko, South Winnitzka First. Dear colleagues, every Soviet law that we adopt, namely, the Soviet law, binds Ukraine to world standards, we become more open to it, we become more clear to the whole world and not just to Europe, but to America, and to other continents. Because of the adoption of laws that are approaching Ukraine, literally the last steps we need to take to WTO, it is clear that our national interest should work here and these bills should be adopted. The other one. We could have a whole discussion here about clean products, clean products. To be honest, I wouldn't idealize even in the approach of patriotism, as it were, would not idealize our products. Let us not forget about the thousands of tons of dust poured free in the cologne fields, let us not forget Chernobyl, let us not forget today’s use of the same chemicals, and so forth. As a result, of course, we are still far from the world’s standards. I'd like to remind you of something. In the world, there is an amazing Ukrainian named Apex Doolinsky, who lives in Australia and who is the author of the amazing invention of biodynamics, the production of biodynamic products, which grows literally in two or three years, about 10 percent of the humus in the soil. He visited Ukraine several times and wanted to help us tie it here and in Ukraine. But unfortunately, there were no enthusiasts, there were really no people looking not only at today that could be broken off from this land, but looking somewhere, let's say, at this optical historical goal for decades ahead. So it didn't work out. But the world, I would also like to remind our voters that there are stores in Kiev today that are much more expensive where clean products are sold. Because of this bill, I find it hard to understand why, let's say our leftists don't want to vote for it, by putting up some for me, at least for me, I don't understand the argument. I am convinced that we must vote on the bill in due course. I just want to point out that in article 16 that says that you can import genetically modified products with permission. I am convinced that it is necessary to explicitly ban their imports. The health of our nation is blown up, and here I can speak to everyone and we, at least, that we still use these genetically modified products, I think it's just criminal. That is why I am convinced that this law should be voted on.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u18	Thank you. Bondarchuk Ivan, please. It's Matthew's. Here's Matvienkov's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u19	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues! Genetically modified organisms are the problem of the whole world, and to date there are probably no States that would not have faced this problem. Genetic mutants today even meet in child nutrition, and this is what all nations of the world are literally yelling about today, protecting their own children, protecting their own populations. The impact on the reproductive system at the genetic level has had a very serious impact on the subsequent development of many generations. Therefore, the entire institutions are working in this direction, a whole system of protection has been set up, but that is what is in place in the world, and we cannot resist it, we are in favour of feeding our people with clean products, but at the same time we understand one thing – our food processing industry, our agriculture is valued for today in the world only because it is one of the cleanest in the world. Indeed, if we remember these things today, the code we've been using plastic spoons, bad-quality cans that have been brought here by tons, by tens of tons. When we enter the markets today, when we enter the WTO, we understand that we are opening borders, and what prevents us? On the contrary, will this mechanism or mechanisms of this law be used as a system of fighting in our manufacturing industry? How will this affect our producers? How will this protect our production and will this system be sufficient to be a control system and a mechanism to combat precisely this unfavourable product? Because, in many cases, there are moments when a structure is created to combat one or the other, so to speak, manifestations and then it is a roof for the same structures to be implemented. This is the first moment. Second moment. We are talking about the problems that we have today in energy. Ukraine is only starting to take the first steps on bioethanol. We, our faction, have prepared a bill that gives, in this regard, we will say so, development. But we understand that the use of bioethanol is not possible without the use of genetically modified corn. And the establishment of the energy independence of our State is largely under attack if we put a control system for development in that direction today. And here we have to think very seriously. We therefore believe that such bills should be seriously considered at a committee meeting, with analysis, that this will give our economy a positive one, that this will give our economy a negative one. And only after that can we vote with a clear conscience when we know that we will indeed close our borders against a genetically modified product, but we will protect our producer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u20	Thank you. Andrew Schlell.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u21	The school of Andrew, the faction of the Yuli bloc of Timoshenko. Well, first of all, I'd like to emphasize what kind of bill we're looking at. Because let's put politics aside a little bit here, and we're not going to use political rhetoric or crackpots. We're talking about control. What are genetically modified products? These are products that have no effect on the body to the end, of course. All that has not been fully explored must be controlled by the State. This bill clearly forces the state to control the circulation of genetically modified products and to import them into Ukraine. But let us not forget that there are also genetically modified corn and genetically modified medical supplies and genetically modified potatoes and vegetables in Ukraine. They grow, the products produced from them are sold in stores as environmentally clean, so there is no warning that this product is genetically modified, that it is made of genetically modified products. This bill regulates, regulates, and prohibits the sale of products without warning. I mean, he's got to pick out all the buyers. It comes -- cheaper costs genetically modified product, cleaner product costs more. We choose. But the consumer knows clearly that this is, what is cheaper, a little more risky. Next. When we talk about technical cultures, there are no questions at all. Neither bioethaneol nor cosmetics that are not used internally can be normally produced in Ukraine or in any state without genetically modified products. So, in principle, when we talk about damage, we have to understand that this bill does not provoke anyone or provoke anything, it restricts and prohibits anything. So I don’t see any basis for such statements. It's like saying that the Criminal Code provokes crime. This law clearly prohibits unregulated use of genetically modified objects in Ukraine. They're being used now. Let us not forget that, for example, when genetically modified corn is sown, self - pollination processes take place, producing genetically modified weeds around the corn. And there are special conditions for sowing and operating suitable objects. So I'm going to say that this process is clearly set up in the world, and Ukraine has one way or another to join in the better offers of world technology and world experience. That's why I don't see any reason. Considering that the minister of health, not ours, but yours, supports this bill, I see no reason not to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u22	Belarus, one minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u23	Microphone. Please give the floor to the national deputy Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u24	Microphone. From the rostrum? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u25	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Very thesis. The law actually introduces rules to control genetically modified products. And everything would be fine with this law if there were no article 16, paragraph 4, which states that imported genetically modified products, which were genetically modified not by the rules established in Ukraine, could be imported here under the conditions of virtual registration. So my proposal is, I think we'll all support it. We have to adopt this law. Just in case, I can tell you that my proposal is used in the European Union, which has been having a discussion with the United States of America for 20 years and is dead. So here's the deal. The fourth paragraph of article 16, which reads: “Importing”, once again, “importing, i.e. imports, food products, cosmetics, medical supplies, feed additives and veterinary preparations that contain or are derived from the use of GMOs”, notes, “directly.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u26	Please, you have an offer because every text has one. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u27	Thank you very much. This phrase after the words “or obtained with their use” write: it is forbidden. We can create genetically modified products here in Ukraine under our control with our standards, but we don't have them from Brazil, the United States, or I don't know which country without standards that meet our standards. With this addition, we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u28	Thank you. Question completed. Let us first put this amendment to the vote and then to the law as a whole. Who's in favor of supporting Teryochin, and I propose to support him, please vote. It's a very serious amendment, it deserves attention. [[16:37:19]] For 177 It wasn't enough. Sergey Anatolyovich must have been a little agitating. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law of the Law on State Biosafety in Creation, Testing, Transportation, and Use of Genetically Modified Organisms. Registration number 3595. [[16:37:55]] For 312 The law is passed. Chechtev, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u29	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished national deputies, because of the Soviet laws, they are more of a framework character, and I propose that they be voted on and considered in the summary procedure. Please put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u30	The will of the deputies is the law of the Chief. Who is it that is asking to consider the bills related to the WTO as a reduced procedure? [[16:38:56]] For 349 Decision taken. So, colleagues, we're going to be looking at the following bills as a simplified procedure. We need to put the bill of the day in order, number 3596. Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Export Customs for Waste and Garbage of Black Metals. Please vote. So let's do it first, and then we'll do it with a motive. [[16:39:50]] For 346 Before the vote, I'll give you a motive. Please report on the reduced procedure, I remind you, in 2 minutes of Friday’s Valérie Teziyovich, to prepare from the committee who will be.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u31	Dear National MPs, this law is purely technical, no rate changes, no regulation changes, except in the cap of the table, which defines exactly the terms of validity and change in export duties, replaces the words “year after Ukraine’s entry into WTO” with the words “year of Ukraine’s membership in WTO” and all. This is a purely technical clarification in order to understand clearly the time from which the law takes effect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u32	Thank you. Yeah, it's from the committee. Yes, please write two in favour, two in the opposite. Yes, please, Lanovy. Microphone from the spot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u33	This is a law on the export of black metal scraps voted at the end of last year. It's changing the norm. So we're not changing the regulation, we're just changing the lines. There is no reason not to adopt such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u34	Thank you. Sulkovsky didn't hear from Ukraine today, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u35	Sulkowski. The faction of the Party of the Regions. Equality. You know, when you listen to individual national MPs, who are practically not in the image, but far away from these Soviet drafts of the law, and not overlooking the importance of Ukraine's future life, and here's how easy it is for some people to try to break these laws. Many national MPs, respected professionals, economists, and so forth have worked on these laws. And that's when it comes today to finish all the work that the fourth assembly of Parliament has done, and today, for one word that is practically polished technically, and there are so many politicians, there are so many emotions that there are not so many important laws that are needed today in Ukraine. And that's why I want to assure you that today, once again, in the Cabinet of Ministers, the people of Ukraine have really admitted today that a professional government throughout all its years of independence and that government really cares for the better fate of Ukraine. And so today I don't support these drafts of the law that apply to the WTO, so it just seems to me that it's just that, or that it's intentional to drag out and put down these important life laws? It's just not clear. So I'm just once again joining the previous MPs who are calling for a vote, and I invite you once again, and I ask all the deputies, let's not show our emotions to any of us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u36	Thank you, Pavel Gnatovich. Even if the Law were spoken of, it would be very good. Please, the Bulba of Matvienkovo.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u37	Thank you, Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. I would also urge everyone, especially this bill, to approach it without emotion and without too many slogans, but only from a proseic point of view to our economy. The issue of scrap metal exports is one of the biggest ones that has built us up over the past ten years. You remember the time when our country exported between five and seven million tons of scrap. You remember when we almost became a commodity for industrial enterprises and had the largest steel industry base, which provides 25 per cent of GDP, gave almost 50 per cent of the country's foreign exchange income, was on a hunger ration because we practically exported the entire balance. We broke the country's balance today because for many years all the wreckage that has been, let's say on the surface, it's gone away, a technological meltdown. Today, all we have left is a rolling wreck that we have in the steel industry, and the break that requires huge investment is mines, that is communication, and so on. What does this bill give us today? Today, we have a standard of 30 euros that has balanced exports and domestic consumption. These 30 euros, if you multiply by 2-3 million tons that are being exported outside Ukraine, are huge revenue for the budget and we are doing so easily. We are saying that this law will not enter into force until next year, after entering the STO, which we have been compromising since the year of entry into the STO. So for one year, we're subtracting a huge amount of money from the budget, which is the first moment. The second, balanced system will not regulate the internal market consumption mechanism and the export mechanism for our competitors. I stress that our main competitors in the steel industry are starting to develop intensively today. The energy blow we're getting at the price of gas. The energy-intensive technologies we have today put our steel industry in a very serious position. This law requires a lot.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u38	Bodnar, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u39	Olga Bodnar, Yulia Block Timoshenko. Please pass the word to my colleague Teryohin Sergei.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u40	Sergei Teryohin, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not get emotional. What we are offered. Replace the first year after the year of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO by the year of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO. Imagine that the Yanukovich government is fulfilling its obligations, and about November of this year we are joining the WTO. This entry says that since January 1, 2007, we're going to have to recalculate the entire export duty and give it back I don't know anything from the budget or do something like that. That's why I have an offer. To avoid such a problem, write: Ukraine’s first full year of membership in the WTO and then everything is in place. Let's start in November, the first January of next year will begin. Let's start next year, one year from now, and then everything will be okay with the budget and these problems. First full year of entry, Ukraine's membership in the SOTA.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u42	Yes, Simonenko, please, and we will vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u43	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, this law does not provide for the right of Ukraine to place our machines, equipment and, above all, scrap metal from the territory of Ukraine under a quota. As mentioned here, it's 2-3 million tons a year. And it is paradoxical to me that my colleagues feel that we are concerned not about the reduction in the price of scrap metal produced in Ukraine through the supply of scrap for our domestic metallurgy, but that we are concerned about how to ensure that our competitors abroad have our cheap scrap and that we are shaping various mafia, clan, corrupt metal schemes from Ukraine. I am also concerned that we are not thinking about the budgetary implications today. The price or, so to speak, the customs tariff of 30 euros has already been mentioned, but this includes the entry into and reduction of the WTO tariff. I mean, we're already putting less money into our government budget in advance. And the last. Once again, I appeal to you, distinguished colleagues, let's stop the experiments on Ukraine. The previous law, this experiment was over living people to import genetically modified products and foodstuffs here, this is a naturally tremendous consequence for the people of Ukraine and an enrichment for a certain group of people who will cover all that is being imported into Ukraine beyond the scope of this law. Did we not fight with you against Bush's knives, but allowed the political forces of Yushchenkov's orientation to import Bush's knives into Ukraine? Americans don't need them, Americans throw them out as useless, but representatives of the Yushchenkov orange team have allowed them to be imported and used in Ukraine. Therefore, I do not think that we should vote in favour of such laws.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u44	Thank you. Question completed. I am voting for adoption as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Law on Exports of Expert Customs to Waste and Black Metals, registration number 3596. Vote. [[16:50:40]] For 325 The factions. 171 – Regions, 80 – Block Timoshenko, 66 – “Our Ukraine”, Socialists, Communists – none, non-fractional – 8. I couldn't make the first proposal right, by the way, a proposal from my colleague Teryochin, because the essence of the law is to what Teryochin said about the date. Since the Cabinet of Ministers first made a proposal, it voted first. If we had not supported this proposal, we would have voted for Terhochin’s proposal in the order of arrival. Yes, even Terhochin agreed with me. Bill No. 3594 - Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act - is under consideration. Please vote for inclusion in the agenda. [[16:51:52]] For 353 The question is included. Please, Valery Teziyovich, prepare from the committee if you wish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u45	The change, again, is a very small change, and it refers to the Law, which provides security, safety and quality of food, and changes to article 26, which refers to the requirements for the capacity of food products to be imported into Ukraine. It's about the import control system and the power control systems that produce this product. Today, Ukraine is conducting more and more checks on the power of food production abroad. In particular, consultations with the United States are being issued today to control precisely the capacity that produces meat products for the proper inspection of the inspection. In accordance with international standards, reports of these inspections or of these audits and the harmonization of the relevant rules of this audit shall be carried out in not less than 60 days. Active legislation provides for 48 hours, which effectively makes it impossible to reconcile all necessary procedures. It is therefore proposed that the bill amend: the number of 48 hours should be replaced by 60 days, which will be brought into line with international standards with the relevant Code of Elementarius and so on - those agreements that regulate this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u46	Thank you. Have a seat, please. There's no one from the committee? Two "for", two "against" if they are desirable. Kirilchuk. It's dry to prepare.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u47	Thank you. Kirilchuk, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. This bill is one of the simplest ones there is. The only change is, in the second paragraph, one digit that is adapted to the European standards of verification. As a result, I feel that it is not a matter of wasting time but of voting for him without discussion.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u48	Right, Eugene Ivanovich, I've spoken, and let the others remain silent, so don't discuss it. Dry Jaroslav.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u49	Dear colleagues, this is one of the Soviet Bills that does not pose a social threat to a domestic producer, because it simply sets more stringent requirements on the part of the health service and the veterinary service, according to which competences can and should be established for those objects that receive food. And what we've changed 48 hours by 60 days, you can ask our industrialists, entrepreneurs -- people who supply products here -- that it's definitely going to make their work easier, and it's going to allow the proper health and veterinary services to do more in-depth and quality control. So I fully agree with Eugene Ivanovich, this is actually a more or less technical bill that can be voted without any sharp discussion or opposition or even any opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u50	Bubbles, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u51	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine I'm against this order of legislation, which, despite them, at first glance, is extremely important, because in the end, Ukraine's introduction to the World Trade Organization is a phenomenon, a process that needs to be analysed, analysed all the consequences of solving these issues, including the one in question and other bills. I'm saying that we're meeting today to sort of adopt a lot of laws. I understand the opposition: she missed the vote. They are willing to vote without seeing those laws. But we can't do that. And so, I repeat, the socialists will not support this law regarding the WTO.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u52	Question completed. In response to Stepan Stepanovich's words, I will say two words. Dear colleagues, unfortunately, should adopt, adopt, and consider laws. Because you and I seem to have met all the conditions before the WTO last year. We were promised that we would be there by the beginning of the year. Now there's 11 of them. I'm sure it'll be another 20 months. And we're probably going to join the WTO for the rest of our lives by adopting laws that satisfy us, and they're not going to meet us. Well, that's our destiny. The bill number 3594 deals with the adoption vote as a whole as a law amending the Ukrainian Food Safety and Quality Act. [[16:57:54]] For 338 Copy that. You have to put in order a daily bill, 3597- about the rates of export duty on the currency of alloyed black metals, the currency of colored metals, and so on. [[Export]] Please vote. [[16:58:24]] For 344 It's on. Please, Valery Teziyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u53	Dear National Deputies! It's a bill, it's similar to the previous bill, and it predicts, once again, two technical changes. Well, first of all, this is, again, instead of the words “the year that comes after Ukraine’s accession to the WTO” replacing the words “the year of Ukraine’s membership in the WTO”. And secondly, it's a transfer of that formula that's in the previous law as it becomes effective. And I would like to draw the attention of Deputy Teryochin here again to the fact that this law, if it goes into effect in December, does not mean that everything that has happened before will have to be paid because the previous law is the same, because it is passed on to the norm that in the year that Ukraine joined the World Trade Organization, the rates of export duty enter into force from the day of entry and operate until 31 December. And the rates of export duty in other years come into force from 1 January to 31 December of the corresponding year following Ukraine’s accession to the world trade organization. I mean, clearly defined formula that was transferred from the previous bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u54	Thank you. From the committee are they desirable? Please. Peter Alexiovich Poroshenko had long been away from the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u55	Thank you. Dear colleagues! At its meeting on Tuesday, a bill was considered. We had additional questions for the government that had been removed by the government. The Committee unanimously recommends that the Supreme Council support the above-mentioned completely technical changes and believes that the Supreme Council can vote for it in the first reading and in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u56	No, there are no questions, unfortunately. Please two in favour, two in pros. Short-term procedure. You're going to ask. Dry, please. Simonenko, get ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u57	Dear colleagues, I think we did the right thing when we introduced these bills under reduced procedure. I want to remind you that at the end of 2006, we had all these bills reviewed and adopted extremely hard, long-term and substantively, in a professional discussion. From myself as a representative of the industrial, metallurgical region of Zaporozhye, I'll add one. You know, when I hear today that we have a metal scrape moving abroad, the question is, What's the reason? And the reason for two things: a tax on added value, which I think has long been criminalized and needs to be abolished, and the price of metal scraps in Ukraine and the price of metal scraps that are paid abroad. So, I think it's going to be such a time that in Ukraine, when we're going to import metal scrap from any distant Spain, underdeveloped Italy, Greece or Turkey. And then this bill will work for us. So, I think, and I suggest we vote for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u58	Simonenko Peter.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u59	Simonenko, the Communist faction. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of the bill, given that our principled position is the protection of our domestic producer. First of all, I am talking about electrical industries that need very much the same, in the same factories and raw materials, in order to produce this product here, locally, to have less costs, to receive prices that are competitive both on the internal market and on the external market, to provide other related products, such as raw materials, equipment. I mean, once again, I would like to emphasize that the Communist faction is in principle in favour of protecting national producers and national interests. These draft laws are a cabala imposed on Ukraine by our foreign competitors, who, in fact, are part of a transnational corporation, the whole territory, in this case Ukraine, turn into an experiment zone and remove everything from here in a row. Qualified personnel have already been removed from Ukraine; they are working for the economy of foreign States; our industrial capacity is being destroyed; today and raw materials for strategic industries, as energy, are being exported from Ukraine. But once again, the problem will not only be the export of the raw material but also the impact on our country's budget. The country's budget is not just a direct loss, it is a loss because we have fewer jobs, people are moving abroad, the local budget is suffering because there is no income tax on the local budget. I, my esteemed colleagues, once again wish to emphasize, supported by the idea of Adam Ivanovich, there were 16 laws, as you remember, look, the inflow was enough, 16 laws were enough, Ukraine would be adopted into SOTA. Today, another ten were hanged, tomorrow there will be ten more, rope and soap in our hands, destroying our own economy. The Communist faction will never do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u60	Stepan Bulba.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u61	Thank you. Stephen Bulba, Socialist faction. I support Peter Mikolaiovich in the fact that, well, we can still understand when we're exporting black metals, iron ore, thank God, we're good enough, we can export. But when it comes to the scrap metal that we don't actually produce or produce from the raw material that comes in, what it might be. This is about cutting the lines of electricity, the cemeteries of everything that's related to color metals, breaking out, and all of this just because we don't ban them from being exported, someone makes money on it. I think we should give up exports of scrap metal at all, it would be in the interests of our economy, including the economy that is still using raw materials to produce these metals or the metals themselves. The time will come when we'll have to bring really here the scrap metal, but at a price much higher than we are now exporting and selling at no cost. Socialists, the Socialist Party faction will not vote in favour of this bill, urges everyone not to vote for it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u62	Thank you. Question completed. I'm voting on the adoption as a whole as a law of the law on the rates of export expert duty on the currency of alloyed black metals, the currency of colored metals and the semi-manufacturer with their use. Registration number 3597. [[17:06:21]] For 325 The law is passed. According to factions: 161 – regions, 97 – “Timoshenko”, “Our Ukraine” – 59, socialists and communists – zero, non-fractional – 8. We include in the agenda a bill number 3598 of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures. Please vote. [[17:07:00]] For 331 It's on. Let's get to it. Friday’s Valérie Teziyovich, please. Matthew's getting ready.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u63	Dear National Deputies! Ukraine's draft law amending the Ukrainian Law on Standards and Technical Rules and Procedures for Conformity Assessment is designed to promote national economic development by improving the system of technical regulation, improving the competitiveness of domestic production, protecting the internal market from hazardous products. It is the standards and technical rules and procedures for verifying compliance that do not match international analogues and unwarrantedly have a more limited effect and create so - called technical barriers to trade, stifling its development, causing additional losses from producers in international markets. In order not to create unnecessary barriers to trade and facilitate the exit of domestic products to world markets, technical regulations, mandatory standards, and conformity assessment procedures must first and foremost be based on international standards and rules established in international standards. The bill proposes the establishment of legal and organizational principles for the development and application of national standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, based on the priority of international standards, instructions and recommendations. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u64	Thank you, please sit down, Matvienkov, Head of the Committee on Industrial and Regulatory Policy and Entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u65	Matvienkov, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear colleagues, your consideration of Bill 3598, the bill proposes the establishment of a legal and institutional framework for the development and application of national standards, technical regulations and conformity assessment procedures, based on the priority of international standards, instructions and recommendations. Because I have already said that the bill was too late for us and we have not been able to consider it at the committee meeting, but we already have some concerns about the members of the committee today. Fears of what? It is that we are practically undermining the work of regional standards. This is the mechanism that protected our domestic producer today. With the application of this Act, we apply regional standards, those systems that have protected our manufacturer, as if doubting and causing certain things that may not cause us to worry. And on a large scale, if I were to comment on the situation that is so far under way, I would say that it does not work in this way with the bulk of these laws, which we are adopting so quickly today, which we are trying so hard to put forward today, so to speak, and that we have made a point that we have met certain requirements. So that we don't sing the hymn of Ukraine's integration Euro, which might sound like this, you know, like in the old song: “They came to tie me to a mare, they took my kale, and they forgot me”. So it doesn't work out the same way with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u66	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? Two — “for”, two — “against”. Please, Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u67	Thank you. You know, we're moving on from our fellow solids, everything, wonderful authors under many laws, I've always supported these authors, these national MPs, colleagues, but today it's not clear, well, one by one, two by one, three drafts of the law. Here's how many laws the Cabinet of Ministers passed today, everyone's against it. And here you're wondering why you're being so lopsided, I think. It's just in principle being asked to say one word that you've all set up for elections or something? Why would you do that? We need to make and create living conditions for Ukraine. We have to finish and think about the election. We have to work. The government has been set up to work until 2011 and will not replace the government of Viktor Yanukovich. Because there were drinks in 2004, they were replaced, and what? They appointed Prime Minister Yulia Timoshenko, five months later, good that they had been expelled from this office, because if they hadn't, we wouldn't have to vote for any laws today, because Ukraine has already found out who knows how to do it in that place, even behind Africa. So today we have even learned from the BUT faction that something really needs to be supported by the professional government of Viktor Yanukovich, and we thank you for that. But I don't understand the other deputies, all the laws are bad. I think today the government in the presence of First Vice Prime Minister Mikola Janović Azarov, thanking him for his presence, even though he confirms by his presence that we should vote now. And that's why.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u68	Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u69	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear radios, TVs, I would like to emphasize once again that the faction of communists for this law, including the vote, will not vote. We must understand with you that the Soviet laws are conditions for the surrender of underdeveloped countries to highly developed States. It is the highly developed States that thus ensure that all requirements for the promotion of their products, particularly to these markets, are met in a high-skilled manner from those States to their enterprises. Of course, this has to do with making huge profits and much more. Once again, I would like to reiterate that many professionals are sitting here, don't you understand that our standards were our technology chips, that protection, first of all, of the consumer, is a condition of work, safety regulations, that's a lot different, that's what's related to technological consequences, environmental disasters. And you are proposing today, in a situation where the failure is enormous in terms of technological consequences, today in Ukraine the state of the material base of production, especially chemical production, and are proposing today that all of this, by lowering the standards, should be left to the fate of the Ukrainian people? I believe that these consequences will have, or will come back, the introduction of this law will have tremendous consequences. Therefore, first of all, we believe that today we need to carefully read out the technological training of enterprises, regions for the introduction of these standards, and they are largely facilitated, not as rigid as we have in Soviet times and today. That's why they're trying to remove these restrictions today in order to promote both their technologies and their machines and equipment, and so on, let's say, dirty technologies. Once again, the Communist faction will be categorically opposed to voting on such a law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u70	Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the whole Act amending the Ukrainian Law on Standards, Technical Rules and Conformity Assessment Procedures, registration number 3598. [[17:15:11]] For 341 According to factions: 167 – Party of Regions, 102 – Block of Timoshenko, “Our Ukraine” – 63, Socialists, Communists – did not vote, non-fractional – 9. I'm voting on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the daily draft of the Act amending the Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency. Registration number 3599. [[17:15:52]] For 342 Please, Valery Teziyovich Petnicki.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is designed to support Ukrainian exporters. So if we're talking about it being included in a packet, it's once again in terms of questions. or issues raised to improve the competitiveness of Ukrainian exporters to external markets. In particular, taking into account the offers of exporters, taking into account international standards in this area, it is proposed to increase the deadline for external economic transactions from 90 to 180 days, and to simplify the mechanisms for obtaining residence permits, the residents, I repeat, the permits for the extension of the terms of export-import transactions. It should be noted that, unlike the current order of residence, the granting of residence permits to exceed the legally established terms of accounting for export-import operations, which provides for a multi-stage procedure for appeals to several executive authorities: Mineconomy, the State Tax Administration and the National Bank of Ukraine, in the proposed version, provides for a substantial simplification and reduction of this procedure. The bill introduces a rule on the conclusion of Mineconomy to the resident with further information from the State Tax Administration and the National Bank. If, for comparison, it can be said that today, a three-step procedure for obtaining a National Bank license takes 40 to 60 days. If the bill is approved, the procedure will be reduced to 10 working days. It is also suggested that a standard should be introduced when the total amount of fines charged cannot exceed the amount of the unreceivable foreign exchange proceeds or the value of the undelivered goods. There is no limit to this day. Thank you for your attention. Please support this law.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u72	Thank you. Have a seat, please. It's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u73	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies! The committee at its meeting on Tuesday considered the draft bill, and although briefly reminding you that, on the basis of the demands of the working group on Ukraine's application to the WTO, that the order of settlement in a foreign currency used by Ukraine does not fully comply with the rules and principles of the World Trade Organization's treaties. There is a need to settle this issue according to the requirements of the World Trade Organization. I don't rule out that this bill can now be voted on by a faction of communists, because this bill is primarily aimed at supporting a domestic producer. Machine-building companies, especially heavy machinery, long-cycle shipbuilding, which are ordering abroad that are producing much more than one year, have had a long bureaucratic leverage to get help in tax, in UBZ, in the National Bank, anywhere else to obtain an individual license, which is equally difficult to extend. At the same time, we are absolutely convinced that this norm, it has already been supported in fact in an editorial that was adopted by the Ukrainian Law on the New Revision of the Ukrainian Law on Monetary Regulation, today removes this bureaucratic burden from the Ukrainian manufacturer. I fully support what Comrade Petnicki said about the positive features of the bill. The only thing: In the text of the bill, I say this for the transcript, Mikola Janović, Mikola Janović, I would like to support this, that we are amending it according to the text, that this bill is going into effect on January 1, 2008, -- what we agreed, what my colleague Friday said. Because we need it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u74	Finish it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u75	Thank you. Together with the government, the National Bank and the Supreme Council, to develop an order for the implementation of national currency accounts, especially with regard to currency controls, in order to preserve the main functions of monetary control over the National Bank. It takes some time. Therefore, the request was made by the committee and the government to make a decision on the entry into force of the law on January 1, 2008. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u76	Thank you. Do you want to talk about it? You don't? Here you go. Two in, two in, two in. Arjovitin, please. And Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u77	Stanislav Arjewitin, “Our Ukraine”. Well, first of all, I'd like to say that the proposals that are made here don't really apply to WTO. I don't think WTO organizations care who issues our licenses, whether it's the National Bank or now the Cabinet of Ministers. I don't think they're interested in what fines we're paying for not getting the money, but, in large accounts, the proposals that are here are very appropriate, especially the proposal to increase the time limits from 90 days to 180 days. It's a substantial liberalisation of the currency market. The same can be said of the reduction in the number of foams, since today’s mechanism has come to be absurd. The most difficult question is how to build a new mechanism for regulating external activity right in part of the foreign currency accounts. Fourteen years our country has lived by one methodology, and now we have to change that. So in order that we don't have a collapse in international accounts, and that our country doesn't become a creditor of other countries, because now our currency is going to rotate outside our country not 90 days, but 180 days, and even more, and given that no one has ever seen what a simplified mechanism of international accounting in a foreign currency is offering us, and considering that we are going to have an aging period, there is a proposal for this law to become effective, indeed, since 1 January 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u78	Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u79	Sergey Terjohin is asking for his word, and I can't say no.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u80	Please, Sergey Teryohin's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u81	Thank you, Mr. Yavorowski. In fact, I asked for the word because in 1993, I wrote the decree in February, and I wrote it for just one year. He's been active for 14 years. No one needs him at all. That's not the answer to the question-- from 90 days to 180. Today, military production is historically delivered with a payment schedule of up to five years. Heavy machine building, let's say our famous S.I.H.I.E.L.D., sets turbines at least with a three - year delay. So I welcome this first little step, actually, but, Mikola Janovich, we need to cancel this law at all, which is absolutely unnecessary now. He was only active during hyperinflation. You don't have to now. Today we have transferred taxes from the register to the first event or accounting method, so this law has no effect on the budget. After all, ask him to cancel it at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u82	It's gonna be amazing. Sulkowski asks to speak against the government. Give him your word. But on the subject.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u83	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Indeed, the order of settlement in a foreign currency, if observed, is, in fact, both by licenses and fines, there are many irregularities that need to be cleared, settled and so forth. And why, for example, are we today. I was against it at first, but then when I realized that even Peter Alexiyovich Prashenko had confirmed in the rostrum today that, in fact, before the government, such as Julia Timoshenko, had done a lot of damage in these projects, and so when the professional government of Viktor Yanukovich came in, he was very good at dealing with the matter, taking care of all the shortcomings there, and today, Peter Alexiyovich himself called for the vote of even our coalition colleagues -- Communists. And I have no doubt that today, indeed, we will all vote in favour of this project, because it will, indeed, not do any harm to Ukraine today. And I urge him to vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u84	And you took the word from other motives. Question completed. I am voting on the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Order of Settlements in Foreign Currency. Take down the vote. How does the government view the amendment? Positive. So with the amendment introduced, it's been in operation since January 1, 2008. And this is the rule of the Budget Code, and here we and the government can not ask. From the following financial year. It's been in since January 1st. Vote. [[17:26:42]] For 376 Copy that. Draft Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act, registration number 3600. We need to get into the daytime. Please vote. [[17:27:10]] For 338 It's on. Please, Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u85	The honourable national MPs, the bill, like most of the previous ones, are technically technical because it does not change the rate of import duty, but merely translates the Customs Tariff in Ukraine into the 2002 version of the OCTS. Today, it should be noted that the current Customs Tariff is based on a harmonised system of description and coding of goods as early as 1996, which is not being used today in the world. And the draft law provides that the product nomenclature is brought into conformity with the requirements of the 2002 harmonised system, which is developed within the framework of the International Convention on Harmonized System of Description and Coding of Goods to which Ukraine has joined. Ukraine's statistical system is being adapted to international methods, standards and classifications, and differences in the classification systems of foreign economic activities between Ukraine and the major trading partners are eliminated. It accelerates and simplifies the process of myths, which will facilitate the acceleration and simplification of the process of customs clearance in the conduct of external economic activities. As a result of the above, it will contribute to the development and recovery of external trade and, as a result, to the increase in government budget revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose we adopt this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u86	Thank you. Peter Dustenko of the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u87	Dear Chairman, dear colleagues! The bill was drafted by the Cabinet of Ministers to fulfil Ukraine’s obligations under Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization, established by bilateral protocols on access to the market for goods and services. I would like to make it clear once again that the bill does not provide for any change in the rates of import and export duties. It is solely about bringing the current customs tariff into line, which has been said to have been built on the basis of a harmonised system of description and coding of the 1996 version, which is now virtually unusable in the world, we live as if behind an iron curtain. And we need to bring this into line with the system of generally recognized international law, through the introduction of the Ukrainian customs tariff, which is based on a new version of the Ukrainian classification of goods of external economic activity based on the 2002 harmonised system of description and code of goods. So-called GS-2002. And I also stress the combined nomenclature of the European Union. This is a technical bill that brings Ukrainian legislation into line with the European requirements and requirements of the World Trade Organization. And the committee recommends that the Supreme Council of Ukraine adopt the bill as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u88	Thank you. Are they willing to discuss? Sign up. Two - "for", two - "against". Royal, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u89	None. He's giving up the word. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u90	Dear colleagues! Simonenko's Communist faction. I would like to draw your attention and to all professionals who are involved in the internal market, who are delivering to foreign markets, what you are about to vote against. That's the law. You'll see how many pages. The codes are changing. These are different groups of goods, either damage, or positive for our economy, for the internal and external markets. Is it true that you will now go to the point where, without reading these 400 pages, you will vote on everything that will affect every citizen of the country, the prices, the pricing factors and much more. Please vote, but once again I want to draw your attention that you are thus performing the role of those who do not think about the consequences. And the Communist faction calls for the postponement of this project not to vote today, at least read it, because it's only registered on 30 May 400 pages you've read it? The Communist faction therefore calls on all today not to vote categorically condemns such practices to the interests of the Soviet States. Today, in fact, the national interests of Ukraine will return this national betrayal and the transfer of the interests of the domestic producer. Therefore, all that is relevant to progressive development, i.e. classification, from a positive perspective for the development of the internal market, is accepted, but before it is accepted, it is necessary to read carefully what is proposed here. The Communist faction considers such actions to be a non-State approach only to satisfy today's ambitions of Yushchenko, which he has set as conditions, in order to address the issue of early elections. I think it's all the more anti-State policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u91	The discussion is over, and I am voting on the proposal to adopt, as a whole, the Act amending the Ukrainian Customs Tariff Act. Registration number 3600. [[17:33:39]] For 342 The factions. 170 – Party of Regions, 95 – Block of Timoshenko, Our Ukraine – 66, Socialists, Communists – did not vote, non-fractional – 11. I'm voting on a proposal to include in the agenda a bill amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act. Registration number 3601. [[17:34:19]] For 336 It's on. Please report to Petniki.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u92	Honourable People's Deputies, the bill amending the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Insurance provides for two following points of principle. The Ukrainian Act on Amendments to the U.S. Insurance Act amends the cancellation of insurance restrictions by 75 per cent of the cost of each subject of insurance contracts relating to maritime transport, commercial aviation, launch of space missiles and freight, including satellites. These are so-called high-risk insurance. The second is the change in the right of non-resident insurers to provide insurance contracts when providing such services across borders, cross-border provision. The drafting of the bill was as follows. First, the need to bring Ukraine's legislation into line with the agreements reached in the introduction to the World Trade Organization. Secondly, there is a need to implement regulations on access to the service market and agreements made in the process of bilateral negotiations with the member countries of the working group, including legislation in accordance with the article, to the rules of Article 16(2), which provides for the lifting of the limits of the total number of transactions with services or the total volume of services expressed in the indicators set by the digital units. We hope that the adoption of this bill and the adoption of these amendments will ensure that the provisions of the Ukrainian Insurance Act are brought into line with accepted agreements and will contribute to the active development of Ukraine's insurance system through the broad involvement of foreign capital, the expansion of spectrum, the quantity and quality of services provided to consumers in the insurance of high risks. Please support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u93	Thank you. From the Terjehohin Committee, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered this matter. In general, it supports this bill, which deals with the removal of the 75 percent limit on the transfer of high-risk warning payments. But, dear colleagues, I would like to point out that this bill contains a very dangerous article on what is called cross-border mediation and intimidation. What are we talking about? For tomorrow, if a bill is adopted in this form, and by the way, based on my experience of negotiations in Geneva, that was not required, it was only necessary to remove the 75 percent barrier, then tomorrow our citizens will have agents from somewhere in the Nigerian sample, without any licenses, without any certificates, and collect money. So there's this request to support the Cabinet of Ministers' proposal for 75 percent, but there's no way to address the issue of insurance and insurance. We're going to lose this branch, it's going to be like today in Poland, Hungary, or the Czech Republic, where the national insurance market doesn't just exist as a class, they've gone to such concessions. Therefore, the request to uphold this law is only part of the removal of 75 percent of the restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u95	Who's up for it, who's up for it? Greens in, reds in, against. Please press the buttons. Yavorowski and Sulkowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u96	Good tandem, good tandem. I, my esteemed colleagues, say that if an elephant is willing to go and is held by his feet, it is wise to let him go. I am absolutely convinced that those who today say that these bills are ours, so to speak, to lie down or fall under some sort of European norm and to demonstrate our and less worth are absolutely wrong about that. I think, on the contrary, even if there were no social problems today, almost all the laws that we're talking about today should have been adopted, because they raise, align Ukraine in fact to European standards and this bill in the same way. Because of that, we will vote for him. And the second is that I want to say it. Dear colleagues and distinguished voters! Now there's a historic moment, we're taking down the final barrier to the election. Now the representatives of “Our Ukraine” and the Yulia Block of Timoshenko submit to the Secretariat the originals of our application for their credentials. You won't have any more reasons!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u97	At last, the country was waiting. Sulkowski, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u98	Thank you. Dear National Deputies!
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u99	I mean, Sulkowski's performance.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u100	Dear National Deputies! I would like to turn to the people of Ukraine once again. The previous speaker once again threw out the bare words, where statements were made and where else was not understood. Take those statements home to Julia Volodymyrna. Maybe you'd better get rid of them or something. Whatever you say, he probably won't see it in Parliament. And now, essentially. This bill, indeed, needs to be passed, voted, and it will only benefit Ukraine. You don't have to vote, I call on individual national MPs for a bill that will not be supported by the government. For those laws, I shall also call for no vote. Because those laws that do not support the government will not be dealt with professionally, and once the government has broken it means these laws in favour of Ukraine. Not in favour of Ukraine in 2005 the Prime Minister's Cabinet issued such a smuggling order. Such a determination, such as that, really, struck Ukraine enormously, against the Ukrainians. Where prices went by 5, for 5 pints of 95, let the Ukrainian people remember. There were twice as much meat on the market as there were today’s prices and so forth. Such smugglings, such approaches, such inadequacies as were accepted by the government of Yulia Timoshenko, were indeed harmful. So, really, Victor Andriyovich Yushchenko immediately fired her from his job. That's what he did.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u101	This concludes the discussion. The government wants to get better. Please. Turn on the tribune microphone. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u102	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the comparative table also contains an active law. And if you look at the last page, it says, in article 15, part eight, it says: “Intermediate activity in Ukraine with foreign insurance contracts shall not be permitted except.” And the last line in this paragraph: “. The provisions of this Act shall be implemented in accordance with the laws of the European Union. So we're not introducing any new norm in terms of alarm treaties. And I'd like to draw your attention again, we've sent protocols at the request of the Supreme Council, we've sent protocols that we've signed, and you can take the protocol with Japan that Sergey Anatoliyovich signed. And there's these standards. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u103	Dear colleagues.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u104	And one more moment, one more moment, if you'll excuse me. We have a law in force that only five years from now, a branch of foreign insurance companies will be able to work in the Ukrainian market after entering the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u105	I understand that you worked in the Ministry and signed these laws and agreements. Then you'll have to figure it out. It's a cumbersome procedure. I will not be an arbitrator in your disputes. Let's put the bill to the vote. What? You don't have to. If the law does not pass, then you will make it clear. I am voting on a motion for a vote in the entire Act amending the Ukrainian Insurance Act, registration number 3601. [[17:44:26]] For 274 Teryochin has no way of saying it, but. There is a vote on the proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the bill amending certain Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property law, registration number 3602. [[17:45:00]] For 318 It's on. Please, Friday.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u106	Honourable national MPs, the task of the draft law is to bring Ukraine's intellectual property rights legislation into line with the requirements of article 46 of the Agreement on Trade Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights, with the aim of preventing the re-entry into civil traffic of counterfeit products and of the tools and materials used specifically for producing them. The bill therefore provides for amendments to the Civil Code of Ukraine and to the Criminal Code of Ukraine in the section relating to the removal, destruction and confiscation of counterfeit products, as well as the tools and materials used specifically for their manufacture. The adoption of the bill will ensure that Ukrainian legislation is brought into line with the rules of the World Trade Organization. So please support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u107	Thank you. Please, from the Kurilo Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, the committee has considered the draft of this law: to make changes, and has supported all the changes proposed by the government that reinforce responsibility for counterfeit products. So please support this bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u109	Thank you. Are they willing to express themselves? Sign up. Now Sulkovsky, Yavorowski. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u110	Thank you. Sulkowski, faction of the Party of the Regions, Ravenshkin. I am speaking today from the national deputies of Western Ukraine, who are really in pain for today’s state of affairs. The birth rate of some of Central Ukraine's lands, in Ravenska, in Western Ukraine is worse. And so for agriculture there are more difficult conditions to deal with. And, you know, this law, it's a representative of the Cabinet of Ministers, and I'm looking, there's no Mikola Janovich, I'd like to ask him a question. When we adopt this law, if we don't have to pay attention to a bigger subsidy for the village, because there's probably going to be a question about the zero tax rate for the WTO. So I think the government has given this a serious thought, and this law doesn't have to be damaged.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u111	Turn off the microphone. Paul Gnatovitch, you've become engrossed in and you've already crossed over to the next law. Please, Yavorowski.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u112	Dear colleagues, so as not to be in a relationship with Sulkovsky again, I pass on the word of Polochalo.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u113	It's too bad, it's a microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u114	Dear colleagues, of course, this law in connection with the fact that we are joining the WTO is likely to have to be backed up. But I'm paying attention to all the deputies here that this is a completely formal law. That is, there are WTO requirements – but to you, we add the word “destruction” because this law does not provide for how destruction takes place. Disposal of what? The IMF, who's doing this? Second, it touches on what, in fact, not everyone knows, Ukraine now holds ninth place in the world by counterfeit production. We're the leaders, we're the ten leaders. And the Ministry of Internal Affairs, which does confiscation and then sells it, confiscates only 10 percent of all counterfeit products. In other words, without providing this law with specific mechanisms, without the necessary attention from the government, on the part of the government, it is an empty formality for us to kind of join the WTO. And third of all, what I'm saying is, we don't have the concept of dealing with counterfeit products at all today. I guess so. If any of you were on Petrovka, he knows what's going on there, the M.E.S. Specially arranges a kind of robbery for counterfeit products. You remove 2-3 persons, then you return the counterfeit product or it goes to the Ministry of Internal Affairs. I point out that at the end of March, when the opposition took part in the meetings, there were parliamentary hearings of intellectual property. Neither the Prime Minister, nor the Minister of Economics, nor the Minister of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u115	Simonenko, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u116	Simonenko, the Communist faction. Dear colleagues, I would like to take you back to the time when we passed this law under the pressure of the United States Embassy and the repeated demands on the Ukrainian Parliament to capitulate and hand over its domestic producer. We were all witnesses to how brutal the struggle against Ukraine was, and the faction of the Communists categorically opposed it. The same law has already developed these proposals, and it has developed, in my view, somewhat elsewhere. This is not just about countering counterfeit products. It seems to me that this law will be a recorder law for Ukraine primarily in terms of destruction of works, material media, computer programs, databases, executions, phonographs, videograms, speech programs and tools and so on. That is, a much broader list of what is being fought against today. And if, in the law against which we opposed the United States of America, the Supreme Council had adopted it at that time, because there was a problem with the licensing and equipment on which the product was produced, and there was strict control over the equipment. Today, too, tight controls are being extended until destruction. In the context of competition, this can also be used against its manufacturer by its own raiding structures. The Communist faction will not vote in favour of these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u117	Question completed. The proposal for the adoption of the Law as a whole to amend certain Ukrainian legislation on intellectual property law, registration number 3602. [[17:52:16]] For 359 The law is passed. It is necessary to include in the agenda a bill of 3603 – amending the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax. [[on the taxation of agricultural products]] What Sulkowski was talking about. [[17:52:53]] For 294 Copy that. Please, Valery Teziyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u118	Honourable National MPs, a bill designed to bring the national tax regime of agricultural enterprises into line with the norms and principles of the World Trade Organization, are foreseen for the following. First, it is proposed to delete Article 8.1 which provides for a special regime for taxation of the activities of agriculture and forestry as well as fisheries. And which, from the very beginning of the adoption of this law, has never applied, at the same time, it contains discriminatory positions. On the other hand, it is envisaged to change the wording of sub-paragraph 6.2. Article 6, article 6, in such a way that the taxation of supply transactions by the domestic milk and meat processing industry by the living weight and imported analogue products is carried out on the same terms. The deadline for this sub-item is 1 January 2008 from the date of Ukraine’s entry into the World Trade Organization. And so today, this sub-paragraph is going to work, by 1 January 2008, then the general regime will apply. The adoption of a draft law to ensure compliance with the obligations that have been accepted in the negotiation process and to ensure that regulatory acts are brought into conformity with the WTO rules. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u119	Thank you. Have a seat, please. It's from the Dusty Committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u120	The honourable Chief, honourable colleagues, this bill caused perhaps the most difficult discussion on the committee. And a number of committee members opposed the adoption of the bill without government representatives. At present, Ukraine’s legislation on taxation of added-value taxes provides for a zero - rate tax on the supply of milk and meat to agricultural producers. In addition, there is a special tax regime for agricultural activities, as well as for fishing until 1 January 2008. Indeed, this bill cancels the operation of Article 8 prima. or 8.1, which provided for payment regimes for farmers. [[eight with one icon]] Frankly, this article has never been used; it has never been put into effect because the Supreme Council has consistently decided on a zero rate of taxation of the farmer by taxes on added value. And this amount, which was taxed for the added value, was counted for its own purposes, for the development of the agricultural producer. Today, under the terms of appropriate negotiations, government representatives have been drafted and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine has introduced a draft bill, which provides for cancellation, in terms of the working group, of discriminatory article 8.1 of the Ukrainian Law on Added Cost Tax. [[with one icon]]
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u121	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u122	This rule will apply with the date of Ukraine’s entry into the WTO by January 1, 2008. I have to stress for the transcript that the committee on this matter did not make a decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u123	Thank you. Write two-for, two-again. We'll assume that Sulkowski has already made his speech. Yes, now, but, dear colleagues, before that, we need to identify organizational issues. We are so organized and working together that everyone wants to continue the meetings. There's an offer to continue the session by 20 o'clock, please. [[17:58:16]] For the 320. Decision taken. Please, Lanovy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u124	Dear national deputies, taxes on the added value of agriculture in our country are carried out under the tax regime for their own producers. This regime continues for 2007. But the WTO standards are that there is no discrimination in the territory of any WTO member country with regard to the internal manufacturer and the external supplier. Thus, it is proposed that the same tax rate be introduced for import suppliers of agricultural raw materials. So this is a general rule, one of the four fundamental rules of SOTA. So we don't discriminate against our agricultural producer, we don't deprive him of his benefits, we're creating him the same conditions for an importer of imported raw materials. So we can say that for the internal processor and the consumer, we subtract part of the VAT price and provide lower prices for agricultural raw materials, both domestic and external. Therefore, this should be supported as a general rule and as a condition for becoming part of the World Trade Organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u125	I don't know whether to give Pulkowski or not, because he's already told us about this bill. Lady? Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u126	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. I'm sorry that I work on an agrarian committee, I've worked my whole life in agriculture, and I'm most concerned about the village.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u127	And the soul hurts.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u128	and for the production of agricultural producers. So really, this law, if it wasn't for the government working for today by professional Viktor Yanukovich, I wouldn't be voting for it. Why? Because really, the zero tax rate on the added value for 2007 is over four billion dollars of premium for peasants. So if we adopt this law, these 2008 benefits will virtually be cancelled. But I am convinced that the government of Yanukovic is fifteen times larger by 2007, although the village is not yet fully supported by the state, but this change in the state budget took place in 2007 against the government in 2005. Well, who worked there as Prime Minister, you know, I won't remind you, woman. So for 2008, even though we are adopting this law today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u129	What's your name? Julia Timoshenko, why don't you know who the Prime Minister was in 2005? So for 2008, I am convinced that the Yanukovich government, instead of virtually five billion dollars, will not be taxed on peasants, but I have information today that the government is working for the next year's budget year, which will be supported by twice as much from the government budget by 2007. So the villagers are going to get over 20 billion dollars a grant for the village, and I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u130	Matthew. Simonna Mikrophon.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u131	Dear colleagues, at which point I call upon you, who is more dear to you, our Ukrainian citizen and the resident of the village, and the manufacturer or the foreigner. Answer this question to yourself, to make it clear that in this situation the norm that we have been guided today has protected our peasant from the fact that Naval has been producing products from abroad, produced and grown in many, so to speak, beneficial conditions. So we've also left working capital, we've given them an opportunity to support them in these circumstances. You can't see that our village is destroyed today, 90 percent of the tractor park is worn out, 100 percent of the equipment in the animal husbandry complex is destroyed. And so today you're going to put it in equal conditions, and you're going to provide a zero rate for a foreign producer, and who's going to stay in the country? Today and so we have only older people left, it will almost destroy rural production, it will virtually destroy social infrastructure, it will naturally cause a huge increase in unemployment, which will absorb the urban part. Thus, this is particularly the case for processing industries, because the village will not provide raw materials for the processing industry, reduce working capital and make it borrow. Thus, respected Ukrainians, this will be a colossal blow to the price-generating factor and once again we will have an increase in food prices and so on, so to speak, in the country. The Communist faction has categorically opposed and believes that this will be a tremendous blow not only to the village but also to the food security of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u132	Sergey Teryohin.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u133	Thank you. Dear national MPs, a few theses. Thesis first for Mr. Pulkowski just in case. In 2007, the village budget allocations were reduced by nearly 400 million dollars compared to the corresponding 2006 censuses. For the sake of understanding. Thesis two. What the government is proposing is this bill. I am very happy from a political point of view that the government is offering 13 billion dollars in prices this year to raise village taxes. Today, we have zero milk and meat. It has been proposed to set 20 percent of VAT since 2008. Now it's zero. I repeat. It's going to be 20 percent. The government proposes that Article 8 be repealed, which establishes a special tax regime for the village in accordance with the chapter of the second EU Council Directive of 28 November 2006, with 12 per cent of the tax remaining in the village’s possession and not payable to the budget. The government is proposing to cancel this. So I'm very happy from a political point of view that tomorrow every peasant will hear the care of this government when he pays so much more tax. I'm very happy that every consumer who buys agricultural products will pay 16.67 plus who understands accounting. So our proposal to our faction is yes. We cannot vote in full for this law. Only the first point, as Mr. Lanovy said, can be taken, leads to a balance between external suppliers and domestic suppliers and complies with the WTO rules. The other, the second, the 8th, is contrary to the EU directive and our agreement with the European Union.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u134	That's what your last name is all about today. Please, Sulkovsky Replica for one minute.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u135	Thank you. I'd like to say and deny Mr. Terhochin. Mr. Terjohin, please tell us, from Economics Minister Yulia Volodymirovna Timoshenko has taken you, and Yuri Ivanovich Yehanurov, indeed, has expelled you. Because you're a minister of the economy, like I'm a cosmonaut, first. Secondly, the fact that you falsely give the figures, I ask Mikola Janovich Azarov. Mikolo Janovich, have the Minister, the Ministry of Economics together, and I will come, and I will do an analysis on the support of the village in 2005 and today, what the government has done for this year. And with this information, I'm going to go to the rostrum in Parliament, and I'm going to go to the simple Mr. Teriochin, the ex-Minister of Economics. Don't let God be such economic ministers, because they would destroy Ukraine's economy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u136	Dear colleagues, you've exchanged lines. Teryochin called the name Sulkovsky, Sulkowski answered. Azarov, please, microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u137	Respectable people's deputies have so much to say about things that don't really fit in with reality. Well, if the village is destroyed under this tax system, then the tax system needs to be changed. If the village is destroyed for today under such a grant system, then such a grant system must be changed. However, the village has not been destroyed. This year, the Government has allocated substantial funds to direct subsidies to the village. This law is brought into line with world rules, this law, more specifically, agricultural taxes. And, of course, the Government will, in its 2008 budget, bet direct subsidies to the village to fully compensate for the recovery of the tax rate. Last but not least, these attempts to change the village tax system have been made several times and still remained a zero VAT rate, leaving accumulated funds in processing accounts. This system, I think, has always been ineffective. It had to be abandoned long ago and transferred to direct subsidies — per hectare, ton of manufactured products and other criteria. But the fact that the Government will definitely increase direct subsidies to the village next year, I can guarantee it. Such a decision had been taken by the Government in its consideration of the Act.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u138	Thank you. Dear colleagues, after Sulkovsky’s reaction, I realized that he was ready to return to work in the village. Please, Tachenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u139	Dear colleagues, I wanted to give you two examples. One village worker provides 12 jobs for citizens, one who produces food — whether meat, milk, or bread. Twelve to the seller works in the city. What are we doing? Why does Azarov speak? Mikola Janovich! What do you speak for? You don't understand what you're saying! The additional cost generated by the peasant is simply divided: 20 per cent remains in the village, 30 per cent in processing and 50 per cent in trade. What makes the village poor? Because the extra cost is distributed completely against the state. If we understand anything about these issues, let's think about what we're doing. Today, 82 percent of rural producers are profitable, 82 percent. Today the village is on its knees! Today, Ukraine’s famine awaits! You have to look at at least 15 to 20 billion to get it.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u140	Finish up.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u141	Half a minute. Dear friends! So if we're doing this to the WTO, I don't think we need that kind of government.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u142	Question completed. There is a motion for the adoption of the Amendment Act in the second article, sorry, “On value added tax”, registration number 3603. [[18:12:03]] For 221 The factions. Regional Party – 156, “Blok Timoshenko” – 7, “Our Ukraine” – 48, Socialists and Communists – did not vote, non-fractional – 10. Teryochin's proposal was to vote only for the first paragraph. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:12:48]] For-154 Who's in charge of coming back? [[18:13:13]] For 283 There is a vote on the adoption of a law amending the law of Ukraine. Simonenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u143	Dear colleagues! I think that here, in this case, the information that Nikolai Janović said is not entirely objective, because the SOT does not allow agricultural subsidies. And your statements that you make are contrary to what the SOT requires. And that was the subject of a discussion in the past. The last time we took it. But this is, let's say, your business, Nikolai Janovich, what you're doing for the village. And now I want to address my colleagues again: Dear, well, don't we understand that tomorrow we're going to kill our own little family? Where will you go to your village after it has been introduced? Where will you find your ashtrays of Ukrainian land? Is it not understandable that this will result in the destruction of productive, productive forces? We don't have kids in the country, she'll leave. Social infrastructure will be destroyed. This is the barbaric position of those who vote in favour of such a decision. The Communist faction condemns and believes that this will only lead to tremendous consequences for the destruction of the economy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u144	Dear colleagues, I understand you're a little tired. There is a vote on the adoption of the Act amending the Law on Value Added Tax, registration number 3603. [[18:15:00]] For 232 Copy that. The factions. Region Party - 164, “Blok Timoshenko” - 15, “Our Ukraine” - 48, socialists, communists - did not vote, non-fractional - 5. I would like to vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the draft Act amending the article of the second Ukrainian Act on import duty rates for certain types of oil crops. Registration number 3604. Please, Friday. [[18:15:44]] For 334 Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u145	Honorable National MPs. The Institute of Indicative Prices was introduced by the decree of the President of Ukraine back in 1996. And the President's decree defined the main possible criteria for introducing indicative prices when exporting goods from Ukraine and approved the position on indicative prices in the field of external economic activity. According to the decree mentioned above, the Ministry of Economics may set indicative prices for those goods that are, in one way or another, foreseen as licensed, for those who set export duties and so on. And today, every month, the Ministry of Economics orders are issued accordingly. This law of Ukraine is the only law that contains a rule on indicative prices. And this is actually a direct intervention in pricing again. I mean, without all the conditions, without all the study, he sets the possibility of indicative prices. Thus, this contradicts the 11th article of GATT. And we suggest we cancel this article. And I'd like to give you figures that during the time of the export duty at all for sunflower seeds, the situation has improved considerably. And today, Ukraine accounts for about 50 percent of the world’s solar oil export market. In this way, given the figures compared to 2004 and 2006, the export of all kinds of seeds is both flax seeds and sunflower seeds, and so on, in 2004, for example, 370,000 tons, in 2006, this amount of exports amounted to 260 thousand tons, almost one and a half times, i.e. closed cycles. Today, in fact, the Institute of Export Customs has played an important role, and there is no longer any problem with lowering the export prices for sunflower seeds, for the seeds of other cultures, because this market has already come together. So we suggest that this rule be removed, as opposed to the WTO standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u146	Have a seat. It's from the committee.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister, distinguished colleagues, I would like again to welcome you from this high rostrum with the completion of the draft legislation on Ukraine's accession to the World Trade Organization. We went through an extremely important stage in Ukraine's history when all the remarks made by the Working Group were made in the proposals of the President and the Cabinet of Ministers introduced to the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council and all supported today. Green light is being opened upon Ukraine’s introduction to the World Trade Organization. This bill, which is proposed to your mind, is the last. I am convinced that the Supreme Council should support him. It's not just about stopping the shameful practice of setting indicative prices, the indicative level of export duty, but actually canceling this export duty, because a farmer growing sunflower seeds is deprived of the right to sell this seed at a fair price. It's being driven into a network of oil-processing machines that make oil that belongs to wealthy entrepreneurs today. And the income is redistributed from this entrepreneur, the left-hand side of the income takes away, leaves the agricultural producer growing the seed with a load. So I'm convinced that now this bill needs to be supported for SOTO, and I'm going to go further and expertly to the sunflower's seed to cancel, which is recommended by the committee that I have the honour to lead. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u148	Thank you. Who wants to make a statement? This time it will be without Sulkovsky, Suhi.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u149	Dear colleagues! I went out to the rostrum and took two minutes ago that the bill, more faithfully, was against this bill since 2000, and I was in this session hall with my colleagues on the third and fourth fourth convocations. Remember what we were talking about? We took a firm and firm stand against the zero bet on taking out the sunflower. Why? Because we needed to raise our oil processing industry. Today, Ukraine has taken second place in the world since Argentina in oil production, not in sunflower production. What have we done with you? Remember, we made 17 out of 21 percent. 17 we keep -- it satisfies the agricultural producer and it satisfies the processing industry. What did this give us, on the other hand? We didn't have the opportunity to destroy the land, because if we had zero bets on taking out the sunflower, we would have gotten what we had one year in the Zaporez area, when a very wise farmer took a few thousand hectares and in three years he turned the earth into dust, when he was sown every year, he got eight centrifuges out of a hectare like this. was instead of a sunflower. So I think we've gone the right way and the right way. Besides, we've provided a stable price for oil -- it's a social solution, you know, it's the only fat for our pensioners, because they don't all have the ability to take olive oil or milk. And one more thing. Peaks, I'm sorry. These are jobs. And one more thing. Dear colleagues! We are indicative prices that do not take off they are acting according to the decree of the President of Ukraine every month the Ministry of Economics will set these indicative prices to prevent the destruction of our agricultural production and the processing of our oil. That's why this bill is necessary.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u150	Ponomarenko, Simonenko microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u151	Dear voters, especially you, dear peasants, I would like to address you. Because now in the walls of parliament, the Ukrainian parliamentarians of a particular faction are “shooting you”. And I'm not talking about the red word right now. The issue that we are discussing has been discussed on several occasions in Parliament's walls and under various pretexts, those who suck the last juices out of our land have taken the last kopeck away from you, taking it outside Ukraine, today again in the interest of the SOT, trying to justify what the third and last scrolls will be drawn from you. Because if we're talking about what we're thinking about not domestic production in oil combinations to work, we're thinking about how to remove this rate to open the door and get out of here, including these oil crops, and we're going to be from overseas mayonnaise, and we're going to drive oil, and so on, as we're doing now. Secondly, don't you and I understand that this will lead to a dramatic change in the country's sequential turnover. For the sake of and for the sake of quick profit, which is derived from the realization abroad of these cultures, we will have a change in the country's rotation. Doesn't anyone realize that after a sunflower in five or seven years, we have to sow the same culture. And we have practically exhausted the land, destroyed the village, planted other fields by weeds, and in fact destroyed one of the main producers. Does anyone doubt, let's say they don't know? We've got half of Lviv County in the weeds. There's an unbroken land. We've got a village destroyed. And once again, the Communist faction condemns such practices. I also address my coalition colleagues: stop, please, because we Communists will take the most determined action if you continue to destroy the village. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u152	Matvienkov, turn on the Baranov microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u153	Thank you. Socialist faction, Alexander Baranowski. Honorable colleagues and respected producers of oil and other products produced from oil crops. We produced more than five million tons of sunflower in Ukraine. And until appropriate legislation was adopted, we had no such effect on the production of this culture. We bought oil and imported it from abroad, and that's also true. And those production capacities that we have today in Ukraine can already process more than eight million tons of sunflower. We export more than a million tons of oil. It's all jobs, it's all budget coming up. Let's not forget that rape culture that started to spread in Ukraine, and that's biodiesel. Now the whole world is buying up this raw material because there's an energy dependency on, let's say, the same oil. And the whole world is protecting its markets. I had to be in Geneva to protect Ukraine’s interests just in order to join the WTO and, in particular, with regard to these oil crops. So what I'm saying is that the WTO countries, let's say Brazil, have export duties for sunflowers up to 27 percent, and there are countries that have up to 40. And these are countries that are members of the WTO. To my question, why do you put us on our knees and demand zero rates for the export of this oil crop, this production, was such a bold answer: “We are already members of the WTO, and you are still trying to come here and dictate conditions.” So it's not equal to terms, we're giving up this position in this case. And that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u154	Question completed. I am voting on the proposal to adopt the whole Act amending article 2 of the Ukrainian Act on the rates of export duty on seeds of certain oil crops. I'd like to make a statement. [[18:27:28]] For 307 According to factions: 156 – Party of Regions, 74 – Block of Timoshenko, 64 “Our Ukraine”, Socialists – 1, Communists – none, non-fractional – 12. There is a proposal for the inclusion in the agenda of the Draft Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Privatization of State Property, registration number 3605. [[18:28:07]] For a hundred and The decision is not supported. Dear colleagues, the factions are filing a 30-minute recess notice. And I'd like to ask, please, Mendus, a microphone, one minute. I'll tell you what.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u155	Thank you, Adam Ivanovich. Dear colleagues, it is clear that there is no common position of coalition throughout the range of problems. So I'm asking our colleagues from the faction of the Party of Regions not to insist on continuing their work right now, but the chairman is asking me to respond to the request of two factions to announce the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u156	Yes. The break was in the morning, and we're having an evening session. There's a 30-minute break, until 1 9 o'clock.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u157	I'm gonna take a few minutes off. I'd like to ask the leaders of the factions of our Ukraine and BUTU to come up on the third floor to agree on a bill.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u158	Dear colleagues, please take your jobs. We'll continue the meeting. The next time I apologize for not taking a break, that is, longer than I was asked, longer than I was asked to. Honourable National Deputies, on May 31, 2007, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on March 26, 2006, in the multi-mandatory national constituency of Kostinjuk Bogdan Ivanovich, who is included in the electoral list of the “Our Ukraine” bloc. In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution of Ukraine, before the nation’s entry into office, Ukrainian deputies make an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The National Deputy of Ukraine, Adam Ivanovich, is invited to make an oath to the rostrum.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u159	I, Kostinuk Bogdan Ivanovich, swear allegiance to Ukraine. I pledge to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence in all my actions, to take care of the welfare and welfare of the Ukrainian people. I swear to uphold the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u160	Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u161	At the same time, I report my entry into the “Our Ukraine” faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u162	Well, it's got to be a statement. Yeah. There is a statement that a colleague of Kostinuk reports that he is joining the People's Block, sorry, “Our Ukraine”. Dear colleagues, calm down. With regard to the adoption of an oath by this decision of the Central Electoral Commission, I would like to tell you that the Central Electoral Commission acknowledges that no, so-called, re-establishment of the lists of “Our Ukraine” does exist, because a colleague of Kostinuk has become a national deputy, as if on that list that has been annulled, so that everything is normal. Next. We should be looking at the law on making changes to the election right now. about the election. We'll make it. We'll get to the eighth anything you want. But because of the three - week and last three - day deals, discussions, meetings, negotiations, and negotiations, we have not reached the only agreed bill and because the two factions have recently registered a bill from these factions that has not yet reached the session hall, it is only in circulation. In view of the fact that there is no harmonized bill, the representatives of the three other factions are also introducing their draft Law amending the People's Deputies' Elections Act, which is related to the holding of the next-term election of the National Deputies, we are now unable to work with you, if you will excuse me, in the blind because there is no other project ahead of us. And this is a very serious document. So in the course of the consultations, we didn't agree, but there were different proposals, including the proposal that I'm going to put to the vote. From the procedure? All right, then I'll give the procedure to Radziewski, Kirilenka and all. One minute, please. Radziewsky's microphone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u163	Dear Adam Ivanovich, distinguished colleagues of the national MPs. We have all witnessed an extremely acute political confrontation in our society over the past two months. Orders followed orders, canceled previous decrees, ignored the work of the Supreme Council on the side of the opposition, and all of this to achieve one goal, an ambitious goal, of holding a timely election. In the opposition there are, we know, enough thinking national MPs who are subject to very strong pressure today to write an application for withdrawal from the National Deputies. That's too bad! Of course, that's unfortunate. But knowing that the Supreme Council Secretariat is now registering appropriate applications, I want to wish them all a happy journey beyond the Supreme Council! And to those who come in their place, why we became witnesses.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u164	Let me finish. Talk to me.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u165	We will certainly find a common language and provide solutions to the urgent problems that the Ukrainian people and the Ukrainian State need. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u166	Kirilenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u167	Viacheslav Kirilenko, faction of our Ukraine. Dear colleagues, honourable voters, we would like to report that, as promised by the two factions of the opposition -- "Our Ukraine" and "The Yulia Timoshenko" -- in the Supreme Council of Ukraine, there are registered statements about the withdrawal of national deputies from their factions, which will result in the permanent termination of the powers of these Ukrainian national deputies. 62 statements have been registered by members of the "Our Ukraine" faction, 106 statements registered by members of the BUT faction. So 168 applications. [[Applause]] This is an unprecedented step in the new Ukrainian policy, which shows that the opposition fulfils its commitments under the joint statement of the President, the Prime Minister, the Head of the Supreme Council. We now propose not to close the session, to adopt the Election Act in 24 hours, the whole Budget and Submission Act on the amendment of the Central Electoral Commission. There is time for that. If you do not have the political will to do so, then the ruling coalition assumes full political responsibility for possible negative consequences.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-05-31-m1.u168	Thank you. I am voting on the proposal: who wants the draft laws amending the Law on Elections of Ukrainian People's Deputies to be considered first tomorrow at the morning session, please vote. Take off the vote, take off the vote, because some of the stress may not last. I understand you haven't been for two months. You want to scream in two months. There was Kirilenka's proposal to continue the session, who, for this proposal, asked to be determined. [[20:01:23]] For-164 The factions. The Party of Regions did not vote, “Clock Timoshenko” – 98, “Our Ukraine” – 65 and non-fractional – 1. Who's for tomorrow morning's session to consider the bills I've been talking about, please vote. [[20:02:01]] For 252 I'm sorry I delayed you for two minutes. At this evening's meeting of the Supreme Council, I declare closed. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., it's work.
