ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-29-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished national deputies, invited guests of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. National deputies of Ukraine are requested to prepare for registration. Please enable the "Council" system. [[10:02:07]] It was registered in the 423 national deputies of Ukraine. I declare the morning session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine open. Honourable National Deputies, on November 15, 2007, the Central Election Commission registered the National Deputy of Ukraine, elected on September 30, 2007, in a multi-mandatory national constituency, Orlova Andrija Viktorovich, on the electoral list of the Party of the Regions. [[Applause]] In accordance with article 79 of the Constitution, Ukraine’s national deputies take an oath before the Supreme Council of Ukraine before taking office. To make an oath to the rostrum, the national deputy of Ukraine, Orlov Andri Viktorovich, is invited.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-29-m0.u2	I pledge my allegiance to Ukraine, my commitment to all my actions to defend Ukraine’s sovereignty and independence, to ensure the welfare of the country and the welfare of the Ukrainian people. I vow to abide by the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine, to carry out my duties in the interests of all fellow countrymen.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-29-m0.u3	Thank you. Honourable National Deputies, two factions, the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and the faction “Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense”, submitted a statement to the Provisional Presidium of the Supreme Council of Ukraine requesting the Chief to announce a 30-minute recess for finalization of documents related to the creation of a coalition of MP factions. In this regard, I announce a break of 30 minutes. The plenary session will continue in exactly 10 hours for 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-29-m0.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? First, allow the chairman's right to make the following announcement. In accordance with article 13 of the Ukrainian Law “On the Status of the People’s Deputy of Ukraine” and article 59 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules, I inform you of the entry of the Ukrainian National Deputy Orlova Andrija Viktorovich into the composition of the Party of the Regions' MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, there has been a joint meeting of the two factions, the "Blank of Yulia Timoshenko" and the "Our Ukraine – People's Self-Defense" bloc. At that meeting, appropriate decisions were made on the establishment of a coalition of MP factions and an appropriate treaty, which, according to the Constitution, contains agreed political positions, signed in accordance with part five of article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules by the leaders of these two factions. [[Applause]] In addition, the lists of Ukrainian national deputies of the two known factions and their signatures have been added to this agreement. A total of 228 signatures. [[Applause]] I'm going to ask the people's deputies of Ukraine to understand what I'm going to say right now is agreed with the members of the Temporary Presidium. In order to be able to officially announce to the presiding officer the creation of a coalition of MP factions, the relevant documents provided for in article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules should be registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This procedure is under way. In view of this situation, the Temporary Presidium agreed to the announcement by the presiding officers at the 12 - hour session. That's why I'm calling a recess at the Supreme Council of Ukraine in 12 hours. I'm asking all national deputies to return to the session room at 12 o'clock. Thank you for your attention. Excuse me, all members of the Counting Commission, there is a request that you arrive at the third floor hall for 11 hours to hold a meeting. Eleven o'clock, members of the Counting Commission on the third floor here, near the dome. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-11-29-m0.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to take your seats. We will continue the plenary session of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In accordance with article 61, paragraph 3, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, I hereby declare that on 29 November 2007, the parliamentary factions: the faction of the Yulia Timoshenko and the faction of the "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" on the basis of article 82 of the Constitution of Ukraine and article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's Rules for the Results of the Elections and on the basis of agreed political positions, recognized the will and democratic choice of the Ukrainian people, based on the support and trust of the electorate, guided by their actions by the primacy of human rights and freedoms, the principle of the rule of law and the protection of Ukraine's national interests, formed a coalition of parliamentary factions, the coalition of the democratic powers of the Supreme Council of the People's Congress. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I also inform you that, for this purpose, the Fräulement of Yulia Timoshenko and the Block of "Our Ukraine - People's Self-Defense" have entered into the Agreement on the Establishment of a Coalition of Democratic Forces in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Sixth Call, in which the agreed political positions are fixed, which is the basis for its formation. The relevant documents are registered in accordance with part six of article 61 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Rules in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. The coalition agreement added lists of members of the MPs who formed a coalition of democratic forces with the personal signatures of 227 Ukrainian national deputies. Allow me to welcome the people's deputies of Ukraine, the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the creation of a coalition of MP factions in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. [[Applause]] Dear National Deputies! Dayly consideration of issues by the Supreme Council of Ukraine is defined by article 16 of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules. I would also like to remind you that the question is still pending. [[Applause]] Let me continue. I would like to remind you that the question contained in article 16, part 1, paragraph 8, of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, namely, the list of committees and objects of their knowledge, has not yet been finalized. The appropriate decision was taken only on the basis of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. And I also draw your attention to the fact that the next question, which, after the Committee's consideration of the subject matter, is the next question, as defined in the 16th article of the Rules, is the question of the election of the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. In addition, the Rules of Procedure of the Supreme Council of Ukraine confer the right on every national deputy to appoint either the Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine or the First Deputy or Deputy Head of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. This right also belongs to every faction registered in the Supreme Council of Ukraine. For factions to be able to either put their candidate in one of these positions, of course, factions need to be able to hold their meetings and discuss possible candidates. Therefore, in view of the arguments I have cited above that come out of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, and by agreeing to this issue with most members of the Temporary Presidency, let me announce the suspension of the plenary meetings of the Supreme Council of Ukraine until the next Tuesday, 4 December 2007. I declare the plenary session closed.
