ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u1	Good afternoon, fellow believers, guests, invited to the Supreme Council! I'd like a colleague to prepare for registration. We apologize for the fact that a group of no longer national deputies are breaking up the possibility of opening a meeting because they are, excuse me, rolling their rights that they no longer have. Please register. [[10:21:31]] There are 269 national deputies registered in the session hall. The morning meeting of the Supreme Council is open. You know, for two days, the chairman, namely, the Head of the Supreme Council, announced that the 71 people's deputies would be suspended on an early basis. They're yelling that everyone doesn't want to work, they're doing pyar-actions around workbooks. Here is the official manual of the Personnel Management, which took only 17 of the 29 members of “Our Ukraine” who could already take their employment books. Of the 50 National Deputies of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko” to date, no one has yet taken the workbook. So that's it, you understand how and for what. Please sign off on the factions who want to make the announcements, reports, statements. Please, from the people's deputies. Dear colleagues, let us welcome the nouns without violating our good traditions. Eugene Vasilovich Marmazov is today's birthday. Colleague Zločevski celebrates his birthday as well. Both Argewitten and Levcun, who are still national deputies. Please, Dry. Jaroslav Suhi. Yeah, who's giving it away. And prepare Tarasov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u2	Dear colleagues, distinguished voters! Today, the whole of Ukraine, the international community, has witnessed a disgraceful phenomenon in the development of parliamentaryism, when, instead of improving the legislative process and establishing fruitful cooperation between branches of power, part of the senior representative body of the Ukrainian people -- the Supreme Council suddenly fell into a frost, openly engaged in political suicide in everyone's eyes. At the helm of this cartoon process is the so - called opposition that is actually in power in half of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, our constituencies, remember that for almost a year we carried their bark and violence, the sirens and the megaphones in the session room, the constant thrust of sweaty men near the rostrum, the capture of toilets and electrical shields. But we kept working. Even after they went on open sabotage and broke the Council's work, they discredited Ukrainian parliamentaryism in every way. We could simply express today’s sympathy for the state of mental health of the opposition, which concludes the session of collective oblation and circumcision of its members, its factions. If only the support of this political filth had not been given by the President as a guarantor of the stability and progressive development of the country. His environment-provoked political quagmire has also led to poor efficiency in the work of the Supreme Council, and inevitable losses to the economy, and inevitable losses to the social sphere in the future. Parliament’s fifth vocation was forced to work in extreme conditions, adopted some 190 legislative acts, and slightly more than 20 laws. In 2005, I remind you, MPs of the fourth call, when the opposition was constructive, we passed 287 bills. In fact, in the last years of the so - called, paws, and criminal regime of Kuchma, family, civilian, farm, customs, and again stop were accepted. Society is now waiting for us to adopt a labour code that has slowed down the improvement of social and labour relations, the economic procedural code, the improvement of poverty eradication strategy, the concept of reform of the pay system, the pension reform. It is not just a committee of social policy and pensioners’ affairs that has been overwhelmed by mail, complaints from pensioners about it. He said he was returning to Ukraine with a pension balance. A 40 - year - old who has not worked receives the same minimum. We got caught up in these minimums, but we forgot that wage is the main source of pension. We stopped the legislative concept of reforming the pay system, we stopped our economy from moving into an investment and innovation model. We continue to patch holes in the social sphere rather than to engage in comprehensive social policies. People from us, and especially from this gop company that left the hall, were waiting for a specific job, not to add personal scores and conversations on television screens on the principle of “stupid.” Will our society be faced with positive changes in the law - enforcement work and in the work of strengthening Ukrainian statehood? I don't think so. Because the same political psychopaths and political failures who have done nothing for a year and have interfered with us, are once again pushing themselves into power, trying to dictate to society the rules of the game. Once again, they will use lies, demagogies, populism, cynicism, and hypocrisy that undermine Ukrainian nationalism. From the “Parties of the Ukraine” faction, I call our citizens to discernment, to thinking ability, to thinking ability and to being vigilant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u3	Thank you. Please pass the Tarasov Bondarchuku. Get ready, Tuck.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u4	Dear Adam Ivanovich, respected colleagues, respected compatriots. National Deputy Bondarczuk, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine During a brief communication with journalists at the opening of the Agro-2007 fair, the President of Ukraine stated: “The question of the next term's election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine has been decided on a legal and political level. We need to bring peace and stability into this process and demonstrate to the nations that Ukrainian politicians are responsible for their word," the Head of State stressed. He did the same at a press conference yesterday at the Presidential Secretariat's yard. The new ones at this press conference were, in other words, incorrect statements to the head of the Supreme Council. Let us leave these statements on his conscience and return to the topic of the early elections and the legitimacy of the Ukrainian Parliament. Unfortunately, our President in his statement is not sincere. Because when it comes to the Supreme Council, with which the joint efforts of the Presidential Secretariat, the so-called opposition and, unfortunately, many of the “independent” media in public consciousness are constantly shaped by the image of the enemy of the Ukrainian people, the monster that threatens the very existence of the Ukrainian State, the Supreme Council has fully fulfilled its obligations under the political agreement of 24 May signed by the first three leaders of the state. [[in quotes]] Unfortunately, the work of the Constitutional Court has been blocked by the President and his environment, and the work of the Central Electoral Commission has now been paralyzed by unceremonious interference with the work of the judges of general jurisdiction, which does not allow legal, I stress, in a legal way create preconditions for a legally correct reference to part two of article 80 of the Constitution of Ukraine, because our Constitution does not yet foresee the possibility of Parliament being dissolved by decisions of party or interparty assemblies. That is, the Presidential side freely treats its obligations and also selectively approaches them. So at the legal, legal level, the issue of early elections is not resolved and stopped, this process is blocked by the president's side. It is known that in society, at least among the politically active parts of it, there is a growing dissatisfaction with the prolonged political confrontation between Parliament and the President. But, fellow countrymen, you have to understand that it's not about the ambitions of Parliament, it's not about its efforts at all costs to take a mountain into conflict. The Supreme Council of the present vocation is on the verge of obstructing the plans of the rematchers to bring about a coup d'état and to establish a regime of nothing and no one of unlimited power of the President. However, as he and his beloved friends take advantage of this power of speech, it is enough to mention the year - and - a - half period of his reign. The question today is not about who is in charge in Ukraine, but about whether we will really have a democratic state, where people through their representatives will do their part, will be able to influence the course of events. Are we going to allow us to usurp power to one person who, unfortunately, is not a messiah, but has many human weaknesses, much more than he should be in the guardianship of the Constitution of the State. Whether the Ukrainian Parliament will have proper powers as it is accepted in the European co-authority, and whether it will be an addition to the hetman, I'm sorry, to the President of Ukraine, such a fig leaf of democracy, a decorative body that will stamp in the form of laws any of the President's demands and his surroundings. Whether we are guided by laws, the letter of law, or the political purpose that our President calls the spirit of the Constitution. And the last thing about the legitimacy of the Supreme Council is that it works and will work in accordance with the Constitution of the Basic Law of the State. Every Ukrainian should know that the President has no right to stop, in an illegal manner, the activities of the Supreme Council, and then mercifully allow it. The validity of the Supreme Council is determined by the Constitution, not by the President. As a result, the Supreme Council will work and adopt the necessary laws for society until there are legal grounds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u5	Thank you. The word has Tkachenko from the Communist faction, please. After him, the Headmaster.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u6	Ladies and gentlemen of the people, citizens of Ukraine! I think today is worrying about the situation as a result of unfavourable bio-climactic conditions in today’s year. As a person who worked in an agro-industrial complex for more than 30 years, I can tell you, society is looking forward to a disaster and a great one, similar to what was in 1947, but there were objective reasons at the time -- the devastation after the Great Homeland War. Today, in order to address the urgent problems in the agricultural sector, the President has been working hard daily through the media to promote the idea of holding early parliamentary elections without any constitutional or legislative grounds. In doing so, the head of the Supreme Council, who is absolutely not to blame, is unwarranted and defiantly accused. He argued that all the people of Ukraine know the holding of early parliamentary elections as illegal, President Yushchenko himself. History will not forgive the president of the orange changes that are being made because the president of today is not the Ukrainian people, but the president of the orange ones. Ukraine, dear friends, is facing an autumn catastrophe. The spending at this time, which is difficult for the country, over 400 million dollars is, of course, a crime against society. The harvest began in the South, the first five or six centrifuges of the hectare indicate that Ukraine had not had a small crop in the history of this type. There is no need to count on possible purchases of food grain for imports into other countries. Unfavourable weather conditions not only affected Ukraine, China, India, Australia, and all European nations, without exception. The shortage of plant production will undoubtedly lead to a significant reduction in the production of meat, milk, eggs, and food resources. I am confident that the effects of the drought could be less vulnerable if the underprivileged and anti - state reforms over the course of fifteen years of the new government did not destroy a scientifically sound agricultural system that has been practiced for decades by scientists in the Soviet government. Today, large farms have been destroyed, symbiosis has been destroyed. The soil is exhausted because of a sharp reduction in organic and mineral fertilizers. They were brought out of circulation by torrential lands that guaranteed high and stable crops. Food resources during the so - called 15 - year reform period have been cut three times. The President is concerned today about the introduction to the World Trade Organisation and the lifting of the moratorium on land sales, which he reiterated on the opening of the Agro-2007 fair on June 12th of this year. And it was no accident that he dedicated himself to the adoption by the Supreme Council of the Law on State Land cadastre. The President protects, not the interests of the people, but the authorities who try to make the land a commodity and do not want to understand that the earth is the foundation of statehood and the necessary condition for its sovereignty and independence, and the living space of 47 million people. People took money from bankers, broke down factories, and sold the equipment with junk. Today, nearly five million mechanics, animals, and specialists in various fields have lost their ability to work and to live. The position of the Communists was and remains steadfast. The land is a national property and must belong only to the Ukrainian people. We will continue to advocate the imposition by the Supreme Council of a moratorium on the prohibition of trade in land. In the context of the situation, the Cabinet of Ministers is urgently required to develop a food security programme for 2007-2008, which provides for a number of concrete actions to overcome the negative effects of drought. Ensure the rational use of funds for the purchase of seeds, techniques, and the formation of national and regional food resources. The basic need for special attention is the preparation for next year’s harvest. If we don't, we're facing a disaster in 2008. Already at the beginning of the harvest, there is an uncontrollable, unwarranted increase in the price of bread, bread products, grains, and other foods, and this is because they are produced from crops last year. Why is this being done? Just one to compromise the government, compromise the Supreme Council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u7	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u8	The Supreme Council needs to address the Ukrainian people and we must accept in this Chamber the political, economic situation that has arisen in the state as a result of the destructive actions of the President. The Parliamentary and Presidential Republic has been proclaimed by the Basic Law of Ukraine, the Constitution. The state cannot exist without the main branch of power, the legislative branch. Stopping the work of the Supreme Council as the President wishes means losing statehood, ignoring the international community that has recognised the 2006 elections as the most democratic during the entire period of independence of Ukraine. Dear colleagues, therefore, the Supreme Council, I think, has every legitimate reason to start impeaching the President for betraying the Ukrainian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u9	Sergey Petrovich Headate has the floor. After him is Kovalevska.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u10	Dear Mr. Head, dear colleagues! A few bars on what was heard from the so - called green halo, where the green one must have been the red one and the asphalty one in the front yard of the President’s Secretariat. That's exactly what happened in the asphalt bath. Our people came up with this saying: “He eats lies, he defiles lies.” I'll only talk about the three lies I heard yesterday. Who doesn't like the norm of lying, I can replace it with an academic lie. The first lie or the first “false” that the deputies of BUT and “Our Ukraine” have formed a parliamentary mandate. Alexander Aleksandrovich, how many applications have been made for the appointment of deputies by the representatives of BUT and “Our Ukraine”? None! There are statements of withdrawal from factions, there is article 81, paragraph 1, which provides for a time-out at the request of their own request for authorization. There are no such statements! So don’t make mistakes when you talk on the air about these things, or from this rostrum. There are statements only about getting out of the faction. What is it? It's very simple. From Kiev, go to Borispol for how many kilometers — 15, briefly, in time for 20 minutes. But these factions went from Borispol to Kiev through Chrórovka and left. Why does it show up? Yes, because when he wrote an application to make credentials according to his own will, the next day he was announced, and they chose to go through a convention. So, then, what is the convention, which is the function of the convention? It turns out that the assembly function is protected, what was once in the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, by the statute, when a member of the party excluded the primary organization to which he could appeal, for the protection of the rights to assembly, before the Moscow convention. And then he did. [[Why do I have three minutes, I have five?]] Because it could have happened here that the faction was controlled by the party, by the assembly. And if the faction does something wrong, there are two or three deputies who disagree, they leave the faction, but then the assembly says to the faction: you're not right, and they're right, and we don't make your decision, your governing body to get out of the faction, and let it remain a deputy. The second lie or the number two lie is that the Supreme Council is not responsible.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u11	Five minutes, I said.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u12	Read the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which is contained in the President's Order, which I have already examined, this one, the last one. The decision that the Head of the C.E.C.C.E. wrote is modern - day Chapwal. He wrote that if less than two thirds were to be allowed to take an oath to other deputies. So you have to follow this norm, he wrote it down. If he had then recorded what he did not then say about the fact that, if less than two thirds, the President had additional authority to dissolve Parliament. But Professor Shapoval did not write this, nor did the Constitutional Court accept another. So the Supreme Council is in charge, and the CEC is to consider it. And that's why this is the third lie that came out yesterday from Onishuk on the air, on the TV channel “Era”, where there was a colleague of Mendus, that the CEC was not obliged to register. Honorable colleague Oneichtuk, precisely because Professor Shapoval, as judge of the Constitutional Court, wrote that it is necessary to allow the oath to be taken by others on the list that the CEC is obliged to consider these matters. Colleague Oneishuk says that there is no law, no law, no law, no law, no law. Fellow Oneishuk, lack of law, conflict of law cannot exceed or nullify a person's right to. To be defensive and to be an MP. In the presidential election, when the Supreme Court ruled on the third round, there was no law on the third round. There was no law on the third tour. But the Supreme Court declared the third round on the basis of the rule of law. In this situation, therefore, the CEC is obliged to do so. And the last sentence. Alexander Aleksandrovich, therefore, when it comes to discussions that the Supreme Council should stop plenary meetings, I believe that the Supreme Council may suspend plenary meetings, but on that day, at the same time as the beginning of the work of the CEVC on the registration of candidates for deputies who are on the lists that are elected in the elections of the past and then depending on the results of the activities of the CEVC, the Supreme Council will resume plenary meetings when there are 300, but only when the CEVC fulfils its commitment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u13	Thank you. We haven't yet encountered the fact that we don't have 300. This is what I officially declare, and that is why we are legally working as the Parliament of Ukraine in accordance with the Constitution of Ukraine. Kovalevska is handing over her votes to Kiselevo, and he has his next three minutes, so six minutes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u14	Dear compatriots, I have come to the parliamentary rostrum to express my views, my personal point of view on the situation and, as Vice-Chairman of the Regulatory Committee, to warn the President, the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the possible derogation from the requirement of the Constitution and the rules of the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the exercise of the procedure for the establishment of parliamentary powers by withdrawing from the factions of deputies from the opposition. [[Supreme Council]] A political statement of 27 May, signed by our party leader Yanukovic, the faction of the Party of the Regions not only supported but also fully fulfilled its part of the commitment, as opposed to the opposition on the part of which the President signed the commitments of which President Yushchenko signed. Moreover, it was the President of Ukraine who violated the agreement, specifically paragraph 7, of the agreements that did not involve interference with the judicial system. 27 — An agreement has been signed, and on 1 and 2 and 7 June, the President of Ukraine, despite the decision of the Constitutional Court, which prohibited the President from appointing judges for administrative posts and with which the President agreed, as indicated by a letter from the Secretariat of Baloga to Philipczuk, President of the Council of Judges of Ukraine, has already appointed regular groups of judges and, inter alia, to the courts of general jurisdiction. I want to warn these judges immediately: you are violating your oath in the performance of this decree. In addition, the decisions you have taken can be challenged in the courts. Because it appears that the President does not intend to comply with the law and repeal the decree by which he overstepped domestic troops in violation of article 6 of the Internal Forces Act. And then he's going to tell someone that he's not preparing a force option after the coup. I don't believe it myself. On the second part of the opposition's obligations on the composition of the powers of MPs and procedural actions, I would like to stop in more detail. Alexander Alexandrović, the procedure for the deposit of powers is clearly stated in article 81, paragraph 6, of the Supreme Council of Ukraine Rules and articles 59, 60, 217. I understand that you are under unprecedented pressure, but as an experienced politician, you must understand that the procedure must be carried out unconditionally. Because if the procedure is not followed, the deputies who today have agreed to political harakirs - the composition of the parliamentary powers - will go to the courts after the final recast of the electoral lists, and they have the right to go to the courts for a year, and I am confident that they are asserting their right to become deputies. [[which could be two weeks before the day of the vote, before the day of the election, if any]] And if you think someone will convince me that they won't go, I won't believe it either. Because when they realize that they have lost, when someone pressures them, they will win these claims on formal legal grounds in the courts and the results of the parliamentary elections will be torpedoed. On the second part of my statement on the Central Electoral Commission, I would like to address in more detail. Having paralysed the work of the Constitutional Court of Ukraine, the Registry of the President of Ukraine believes that everything can be done. According to article 10, paragraph 4, of the Rules of the Central Electoral Commission, a meeting of the Commission could be convened at the initiative of one third of the members of the CWC. Three consecutive days, more than 1/3 of the CIA members are required to meet, and three times the members of the CIA are sabotaged by the opposition quota and the President. Moreover, the Chairman of the CEC assumed the authority of a collegiate body by his personal order to those responsible for the district electoral commissions. I would not have touched this episode if Mr. Zvaric, a representative of the President of Ukraine in the Supreme Council, had not lied on the 5th channel yesterday. He said it's always been like this. I have a document in my hands that says it's never been like this. Rybec and Davdovic used the choice to make this entrapment. Strangely enough, no one asks the members of the CLTC who break the rules, toss the meeting of the Commission by not having a quorum, with a very dangerous example. As you're about to, Mr. President, announce the start of an electoral campaign if you've repeatedly shown an example of sabotage through the absence of quorum. Will you provide a quorum in the CEC with a further decree or under the pressure of the prosecutor's office? Then the question arises, “When will the practice of double standards end?” I propose that the work of the CEC, which is required under article 212 of the Rules, be recognized as the mandate of the deputies in exchange for the outgoing candidates of the opposition factions voted for by the voters. If there are no candidates or no candidates on the list and there are fewer than 300 in the room, then there are no questions, Parliament is illegal. Today, Parliament is obliged by the legitimacy and the CEC to introduce new candidates into Parliament instead of those who have left, to make them deputies. However, as long as the procedure of rejuvenation is challenged, members of those lists have the right to obtain the status of a national MP. Until the procedure is completed, I suggest that everyone return to the hall, draw relevant conclusions and continue to work. And in conclusion. I don't understand. The sociologists argue, and all of these conclusions agree that almost the same people will be in the next Parliament, and the lists in our Ukraine and the BIT almost confirm this. Where are the new people who the opposition is talking about, or will they appear two weeks before the vote? In other words, “The ceasing of their own, as the socialists left in their own time, calling them ‘traitors’ who made it possible to become an orange victory in the presidential elections and helped to form a parliamentary coalition. I call upon those who have exercised their parliamentary powers to reflect on you, and I call upon you to comply strictly with the Constitution and regulations of Ukraine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u15	I've been thinking about turning away. Now, of course, I won't interrupt. I'm asking you not to marry me for upholding the Constitution, and I'm not violating it, and I'm not going to break it. Catherine Samuel, please have a word.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u16	Thank you. Yesterday, I really liked the new real policy on a green gala with expensive carpets and a chair so big that it could be led by the President of Ukraine by an anti-constitutional coup, destroying the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the Constitutional Court, the Attorney General's Office, the CTC and the courts of various institutions. And it's all for the same chair that it's about. Cursed, for the sake of putting all authority in your hands, to be the Lord God and the spirit of the Constitution, which salutes the people of Ukraine. Would it not be better to tell people from those green shrubs how to handle the food program, how to provide bread for people, animal feeding, warm winters, how to ensure that children’s gardens, hospitals, and schools work properly? What should be the concern of the guarantor, not the political games aimed at the separation of Ukraine, the loss of statehood and the conscious organization of famine in 2007. The loyal subjects of the President of Ukraine are destroying and destroying everything in their path. Tell me, where has it been published that after the decisions of the courts of various institutions, including the Supreme Court of Ukraine, regarding the return to the religious community in the village of Rahmanov of the Ternopil temple area, which belonged to the Ukrainian Orthodox Church for more than two centuries, has not been implemented? Where's the guarantor's word? He was approached, by the way. Why Do Dogs Chasing People?Oh, my God! In the middle of the night, dogs were brought under the supervision of the head of the district government, the district government, and dogs were hounded! People were terrified: isn't this the 41st to 45th? Why are dogs harassed for the truth, for the law, and for the rights of people? This is in our democratic state, which is working under the watchful eye of President Bush, who is so concerned with the democratic transformations that we have. And so I'm very afraid that this is just the beginning and I'm asking again why, in our democratic state, the Constitution, the law -- all of this, they're putting people in jail for it. Today, several priests and those who have come to enforce judicial decisions are in prison. Now they're demanding crazy money, knowing that people don't have that money. I want to talk to people, stop the President of Ukraine in his senseless, unhealthy thoughts and actions. Otherwise, in Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u17	Thank you. Mendus Jaroslav Petrovich, with a motive, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u18	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party. Dear Alexander Alexander, there is a request to continue the term. Time for MPs to speak on the current political situation and current issues of public and political life. Please consider this proposal.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u19	I have statements from the leaders of two factions for a half hour break, or to replace them with performances. I think it'll be more economical. So let's do it. If anyone is in favour of continuing this discussion for 15 minutes, because the decision will have to be made accordingly, please vote. This is a procedural question, please, for the vote. [[10:58:00]] Thank you. 255. Jaroslav Petrovich. Stepan Bulba is speaking, please. Instead of Menduz.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u20	Stephen Bulba, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine Honorable National MPs, distinguished voters. From yesterday’s sermon from the house of chimers, it is not simply a matter of understanding the politics of new realities. There's obviously only one thing. The President, who calls for the rule of priority, not the law, who considers it possible to name the guilty without investigation and the court, who has no doubt claimed that the electoral process has long begun, thus dedicating the violation of the law and the Pharisees by calling for them to be honest at the same time, such a President is only able to guarantee instability. But I want to talk to Yushchenk for another reason. Mr. Yushchenko, in Ukraine and in your efforts, there is also a period when the morality of the so-called elite can be determined in the simplest and most reliable way by comparing the existing real estate with the accounts in foreign and Ukrainian banks. We don't take the Bank of Ukraine into account. People know that it is not possible to become too rich in Ukraine without breaking laws and morals. I could call other arguments to make it clear that you have no moral right to evaluate Alexander Frost. You yourself know this very well, that you care for his dignity and virtue, as do bees to heaven. Let me be excused by an innocent insect for such a comparison. That's why you're freaking out that you're not capable of buying or scaring Frost. That's different. Mr. Yushchenko, thanks to Frost, thanks to the Socialists, you have become the president of the country, although in a questionable way the third tour. The socialists voted for you, aggrieved their supporters, because they believed your false promises to support a polytrephobic, end kushmian authoritarianism, separate business from power. You didn't keep your word. That's real betrayal. It's obvious to me that the old man is being replaced by a young dragon who will never lose his authority. It's a more intelligent, more sophisticated cynical force, as Victor Musiak described you before the presidential election in December 2004. Unfortunately, Musiak was right, and we were wrong, and now we have the task of defending Ukraine from this unpunished force, and be sure we have enough desire and consistency to carry out this task. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u21	Thank you. Savocin Hennaday Petrovich Oh, no? Then he passes the word Hermann Hanna instead of him, and then instead of Bulby, he'll be on the list of Bogchuks.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u22	Dear colleagues! I just got a call from the people in the Cherka region, and they said they're turning off the radio just as the Supreme Council meeting is starting to start, so if Mr. Prutnik Edward Anatoliyovich hears us, turn on the radio, because I want to ask the President for something. Mr. President! You were so kind yesterday, so from the king's side you told the people that the Party of Regions isn't all bandits, not all criminals! Renat Leonidovich Ahmtov has done so much that there will be peace and calm, stability in Ukraine, and there will be no political crisis. Victor Andryovich! Can we call Renata Leonidovich a Democrat? You'll let us do that? Or would you give us a list of those people that we can call Democrats? Because you've monopolized this concept, this principle of democracy, that you've clearly defined who in Ukraine can be called a democracy and who can't. So if you'll excuse me, we'll be calling Renata Leonidovich a Democrat from today. Thank you. A Democrat. Thank you, Mr. President. I always believed that you were good and that you were a real Democrat. But as a Democrat, let me give you some advice, as a person who understands something in image, let me give you some advice. [[That's right, for the image, because we've just heard that you have instructions for the image.]] Hence, first -hand counsel. Victor Andryovich, don't take any other people's credit, because the people can add to your image that saying about the horse they're cooking, and someone's shoving their foot there, and I'm not going to say who, because it doesn't fit the President. So when you say that you have signed nine laws and eliminated all problems before we enter SOT, Victor Andryovich, remember how much the Cabinet of Ministers worked on those laws. Think about how much Parliament has done for this, how we've been here day and night, when your Democrats have been resting somewhere, and we've been adopting Soviet laws, it's very heroic, it's really heroic that you've signed them. But don't take credit for other people's merits. Second advice. I've already told you, don't monopolize the word "democracy," because the ancient Greeks are turning into graves and don't threaten Zushko, Victor Andryovich, because you're the President, you're not the judge and you're not the prosecutor, you're not a Stalinese trio, you're the President of the Democratic State. Let the court, the investigating authorities, the prosecutor’s office, find out for yourself what happened there, in turn, give us an answer at last about who killed Gongadze, but you promised us, give us an answer about who poisoned you, you promised us, and Lucenko promised, and everyone.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u23	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u24	Just a few more seconds, Alexander Alexander. And finally, Victor Andriyovich, don't tell the press who she's supposed to support in the election, don't push, don't give me any reason to say that you're going to be using administrative resources or forging elections. The press is free democratic and the press knows that we do not need anyone in the elections, but we simply need to inform society objectively about what is going on in our country. Here's my advice to you, as a Democrat, and we're expecting you to list us in our country, in our coalition, we can call you a Democrat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u25	He's got a word for it, almost said by a Democrat. Bogchuk Vasil Stepanovich, please. The Ternopil Democrat.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u26	Yeah. Thank you, Basil Bogchuku, Socialist Party, Ternopil. Dear friends, it is amazing how the head of state and his sacramental environment try to copy one of the Pacific nations and its not so popular leaders in the world. Last night in Bankay, there was this kind of green halo in Washington, where the president said, "Listen, I'll tell you," I was talking to the press. It would be nothing if, from this emerald, the ancient “songs on the old system” of parliament were not to be heard on the part of the Pacific Manner of the Tribute, that everyone in Ukraine should take the role of opposition, be equal to BUT and our Ukraine. Mr. Yushchenko seems to recognize himself as president only of the powers of the orange vector. At the same time, whatever proposals may be made by a coalition force, the head of the state does not accept gunfire. The guarantor is faced with one clear and specific task: to turn a fighting and efficient parliament into a ruin. I would like to ask the president, his lawyers, and what is it that determines that the Supreme Council of Ukraine has ceased its mandate? By order of April 2nd? No, we proved that in the Constitutional Court? Perhaps by decree of April 26, who was even more vulnerable than his predecessor. What is the legal basis for the third decree? It actually doesn't have any legal basis, because it's built on the basis of the parties' agreements, it's like completing the powers of the people's deputies of the opposition factions. Nine days later, the “souls ” of the BUT factions and “Our Ukraine” from the Supreme Council were to “fly away, ” as the head of state has declared to the world. And it turns out that this is not the case, the factions live and heal, and not all of the claimed “department to the world’s vanity” deputies have come out of power. That is, the next decree is a banal fairy tale. But this is how you want to turn the Supreme Council into a ruin because it has failed Timoshenko to become the United States chancellor of such a kind of Angela Merkel, for not being able to taste in the official cabinets of a large chamber of “loving friends”. That's why there's a show on the White House Manner on the green field of Banking. I don't know how many shows we're going to see in the green field, but I'm sure Angela Merkel is not our choice. And I'm also sure that the next show from Banking will end with his impeachment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u27	Gorbenko. Please. Gorbenko, the “Regions” faction, is taken over by women. She'll be followed by Netecka. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u28	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished colleagues, distinguished voters! A righteous goal may sometimes be accompanied by unrighteous acts. Sadly, this truth of the Ukrainian electorate has long been taught. But even those who have accepted this thesis realize that the way to a righteous purpose cannot be accompanied only by unrighteous acts but by lies and only by unrepentant counterfeiting. I don't rule out the opposition continuing the same practice when they try to get the votes of an orange electorate by discrediting each other. And the main object of the attack will be the Party of Regions and the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. In this context, we are witnessing that statistics, results and performance indicators of the government are being distorted again and again, are being compromised. We can be sure of that in many election campaigns. But in all our years of independence, we go to the electorate and show the results of our activities, the professional activities of the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic. And today there is also something to go to people with. Only after Cherkaščina, on June 1, 2007, did the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine increase the pensions of 339 thousand 219 pensioners to 80 percent of the total number of pensioners. The average increase is about 34 grevens. On May 29, the Department of Pensions in the Cherkas region conducted an automated recalculation of pensions in accordance with the decree of the Cabinet of Ministers. Today, June 27 is 90 years old from the first Ukrainian government. The question arises, Which of the governments is the most successful one who has brought more benefits to Ukrainian citizens. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like to base the most important indicator on gross domestic product. As it grows significantly, business accounts are filled, government budgets are rich, social expenditures are raised, the future of the country and of our entire Ukrainian people are opened. According to the Ministry of Economics, in January/June, gross domestic product growth is expected to be 7.6-7.8 percent. The Minister of Economics predicts that in the first half of the year, the growth of the domestic gross product will be 7.5 percent. This is the answer to those young “reformers” from the President's Secretariat, who are only like themselves and who are aiming for the goal: “Are we going to win the Kabmin?” Today’s government in the social sphere is functioning adequately with the economic capabilities of the State in terms of a long-term perspective. I mean, it prefers the strategy of sustained economic growth. You can see that, at least from the fact that the budget is solid.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u29	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u30	More than 20 billion dollars for innovation, which is the introduction of modern technology, scientific development, technological re-arms, in one word, the prospect of development. The main goal is to provide jobs on the home land of all Ukrainians who are now working abroad, in effect, to correct the loss of all previous governments. The government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, the Party of Regions, has colossal support for the people of Ukraine, which is steadily increasing and will have a majority in the new Supreme Council in the case of the elections. Therefore, it is considered necessary, to accept the 2008 budget as this composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine and to propose to the Cabinet of Ministers for, in September, no later than this year, a draft new budget, a budget that should lead our economy out of stagnation, to which it was led by two previous governments. This budget should be a budget for the economic development and popular trust of the entire Ukrainian people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u31	Thank you. It's been declared non-German. She doesn't insist on a word. I'm with your permission, since there's less than a minute left before the end, I'm going to stop discussing this subject. And a few words to sum it up. That's the deal. Now, a lot of speakers talk about the President's actions, especially what he said yesterday during a press conference. Fortunately, I didn't see this press conference because I was busy with other things, but the press release read and saw that there was a reason for the MPs to express themselves sharply. But I'd like to ask you this: let's say in our own words that this is about the President. This is the president of our state, so be careful in the comments, I mean, in the epithets and so on, because that doesn't give anyone anything. In fact, the issues that concern him and all of us today need to be said in essence. So, on, on, on essential matters, it's the termination of the powers of deputies and the termination of the powers of the Supreme Council. The statements about this last night are completely invalid. And the speech, in particular, by Sergey the Chief here, was convincing. Take, by the way, in the newspaper “Day” today, an article by two heads of the Supreme Court of Ukraine – Victoro, Vitalia Ivanovich Boyka and Vasil Trochymovič Malerenka, which is convincingly based on the Constitution of Ukraine, based on constitutional law, is generally confirmed once again: there is the principle of continuity of power, and the Supreme Council in particular. So doing, I'm sorry, stupid things like that, commenting on different content just doesn't have to be done. It may be in accordance with article 82 of the Constitution that circumstances arise, we all understand perfectly, artificially created, but it is not set down in the Constitution in a negative way. When the authority of the Supreme Council does not allow it, the level of authority does not allow plenary meetings to be held. But the Constitution and the Rules provide for a procedure to restore Parliament's ability to work through the substitution mechanism used by the Central Election Commission. So to say that the Central Election Commission is not working and that is a good thing can be said only by those who do not know the law and who do not know the functions of the Ukrainian authorities. It's an unacceptable thing at all. You will note how the Rules have issued a procedure for the suspension of parliamentary powers. 60 articles, 217 articles of the Constitution and Order of the Supreme Council will be adopted by 30, if I am not mistaken, May or May 7? On May 30, it and to some extent compensates for the absence of the law provided for in the Constitution, creates such a mechanism. The MP wants out of the faction. He writes a statement, registers it at the Secretariat. In accordance with the Rules, it is his duty to report this to the presiding officer at the meeting and then to the presiding officer at the meeting, to read out the statement of the national deputy. And that starts the process of getting out of the MP's body of a particular person. He then transmits this information, protocol and document to the Central Election Commission. One line of law has been closed to the Central Election Commission. Another is that, after all this has happened, what Sergey Petrovich, the court, did today, not the court, and the party’s assembly takes the appropriate decision and, according to the Constitution, takes the appropriate decision and also directs it to the Central Election Commission. There were two documents in this authorized body, and then the Central Election Commission, see, it has a basis for replacing this person with the one on the list in the respective political party. Because they didn't vote for the leader, they voted for these candidates for the MPs. And so if the Central Election Commission sends a new deputy here, its mandate that is recognized, and it enters its post after the oath is made, then the right circle closes. If there are no new deputies in the Central Electoral Commission, then she reports to the Supreme Council, and it makes sense that she has no substitute, and then if there are no 300 deputies, then Parliament cannot work in plenary mode. He can still take care of the Parliament and the Central Electoral Commission to get the right candidates if they are on reserve in the Central Electoral Commission. This is the procedure. Therefore, the announcement at the plenary session of the names and statements of specific MPs is not a requirement of the Head of the Supreme Council, it is the duty of his or her chairman, the duty laid down by the Rules of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. It's for clarity to be in this respect. Now. We've already announced 79 applications. The fact of personal presence or the submission of applications such as the decree “in the presence of a person” is evidenced by several documents, including a list of registrations of national deputies or a transcript of the Supreme Council. For example. Viacheslav Kirilenko did not register at the table, but he performed here, as recorded in the transcript. By the way, he was speaking and insisting that the names should be announced, and he was announced. The rest are registered at the registration table. Today, a few more men, we have determined precisely that they have expressed such a desire and that their names are named here. A large group of opposition deputies came to me before the plenary meeting, claiming that their names and their statements had not been read in the plenary. I'm not going to go into detail, and I'm not going to call the names, but there were those who asked them not to advertise them in any way, because they understand that this is an element of the implementation of the legal relationship. That's why I'm not going to call my last name, but then, when I analyzed this procedure, because I was also authorized by the President here, the Secretary of the Security and Defence Council, John Plush, and I told him, "Well, you understand perfectly that it's about a few dozen deputies who don't want this procedure to happen, they think someone will solve the issue for them." So we've decided in this way, we need to verify that we have a claim for our credentials. The procedure is this: If the deputies feel that they cannot, because, you know, pride does not allow or any other reason for entering the session room, please come to the head of the secretariat. There will be a member of the Rules of Procedure, and he will say: “I have exactly written a statement, I definitely want my name and my statement to be announced in the plenary.” After that, we'll announce. No one will hold anyone back. But this gives me reason to write orders to stop working with him, to settle him there on salary, to stop issuing wages, and the secretariat gives us reason to do the calculations of those people who are associated with the deputy — his secretariat, his assistants, and so on. And you don't have to make a tragedy out of it. Because I'm looking at how the media yesterday show, one deputy or deputy S., we're going to talk so funny, we're going to kick her out of here, and she's already got a computer in there, and by the way, the Supreme Council's, they're going to warn her about what documents are there. And it's so tragic. He sits in the car, leaves, and so on. Look, we didn't kick her out, she wrote a statement. The MP made an appropriate request; he chose such a prospect. By the way, these things don't cancel out anymore. Labour relationships break up. This is all provided for by procedure and legislation, even by the laborers. So what might be the pretenses here? That's something about how we were accused of expelling representatives of “Our Ukraine” from the government. They wrote their statement of exit, and then there were different peripeties, but it's like the coalition couldn't handle them. I couldn't stand their desire not to be in government, that's all. So I'd like you to understand this procedure. And that is when the MP's confirmed wish to make his mandate through the withdrawal of the faction and the provision of the other elements provided for in the Rules and the Constitution, that is how the procedure will be carried out. So I would ask the high officials, or any of the deputies, or even Vasil Alexiyovich, to be sure that this procedure will be followed. Thus, today we have reason to declare such other deputies. To the Supreme Council's apparatus is written National Deputy Konstantinov Evgen Semenović, a member of the deputy faction “Blok Timoshenko”. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” He wrote this statement on April 18. A similar statement was made by Oleg Radkovsky. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency of the “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” April 18th, a statement was written. Radar. A.A. Radovet – that's what it says in the statement, although you have to write in full, call your parents. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the deputy faction of the "Julia Tymoshenko" and whose list I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my authority as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. April 18’. Similarly, on April 18, writes Alexander Rybek. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my exit from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of the "Julia Tymoshenko" which I have been elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” He's writing a statement by Julia Timoshenko herself. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my exit from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the faction of the constituency block "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko", under the lists of which I was elected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the National Deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine." Also on April 18th. On April 19, Michael Tomenko wrote. “For the purpose of submitting, providing the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for suspending the terms of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko", by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine." And Helen Schustik wrote that statement on April 18. “For the purpose of submitting, giving the President of Ukraine additional grounds for terminating the terms of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my exit from the deputy faction of the Yulia Timoshenko. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block of "The Block of Yulia Timoshenko", by which I was elected by the National Deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the National Deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine." It has to be said here that everyone wrote, obviously, one example and everyone makes a standard mistake except for those I don't pay attention to. There were no lists of Block Timoshenko, there was a list of the “Blank of Yulia Timoshenko”. Next. I'm going to meet their wishes today, Oleg Kucherenko, right? He writes simply on the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Alexy Kucherenko. “Delivering the Presidential Order of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of April 2, 2007, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of the Fifth Call.” And sign it. This was done on April 18. And I would like us to tolerate being there in relation to the discredited composition of Parliament, obviously, and it is cleansed in this way. April 18th writes Levchenko. I understand it's Catherine Lewchenko. “Delivering the Presidential Order of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April of the seventh year, I find it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Council of Ukraine, claiming my withdrawal from the membership of the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call.” So does Mikola Martinenko. “Following the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April of the seventh year, I find it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, and I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call. “ I don’t know The same statement by Anatolia Matviennek. “The Supreme Council of Ukraine. In support of President of Ukraine's decree on the permanent cessation of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, of 2 April of the seventh year, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the fifth vocation, because I consider it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine in the fifth vocation." Alexander Omelchenko wrote a statement of this content. “Assisting the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the permanent termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s Fifth Appeal, I declare my withdrawal from the “Our Ukraine” faction in the Supreme Council of Ukraine of the Fifth Call.” Trelyakow, I think it's Alexander Trelyakow. “Following the Ukrainian Presidential Decree on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited composition of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call. National Deputy of Ukraine Trelyakov, April 18”. And on top of that, a statement by Nicholas Jacob of the same content. “Delivering the Presidential Order of Ukraine on the Termal Cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April of the seventh year, considering it impossible to continue the work of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the Fifth Call, I declare my withdrawal from the House of Deputies of "Our Ukraine" in the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. He wrote the application on April 19. So these documents, and the protocol, and what I've announced, we're now going to the Central Electoral Commission right now, and it's going to involve them in the matters that need to be taken up at its meeting. And I hope that this will happen, and until we get a response from the Central Electoral Commission on the impossibility of replacing deputies, until then Parliament will be working in plenary. And if we get confirmation that there are no such candidates and there are no 300 deputies who can participate in the meeting, then we will work on committees, factions will carry out their duties as deputies, until the new composition of Parliament enters into its mandate, or until, let's say, 20 days, as stipulated in the legislation will not be restored to 300 deputies in the list where they are recognized. Or maybe a court order, maybe I'm not rejecting one that's not legitimate, let's say it's constitutional. It's either a party get-together or some other way. But it's not our function, we're only doing what's provided by the system of relations for the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen, you have in your hands a draft of the Supreme Council Order amending the Supreme Council of Ukraine decree on the election of heads, first deputies, deputy heads, secretaries, members of the Committees of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth vocation and election of the head, first deputy, deputy heads, secretary and members of the Special Supervisory Commission on Privatization. 3558 registration number of this document. As reported by Vasil Kiselov, deputy chairman of the Committee on Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u32	Dear Alexander Alexander, the distinguished people's deputies of Ukraine! The Committee on Rules of Procedure at its meeting on June 8th considered the statement made by the Ukrainian National Deputy, Igor Romanović, a member of the Party of the Regions' MP for election as a member of the Committee on Human Rights, National Minorities and International Relations. Considering that the calculated quota for the Party of the Regions' MPs in this committee has not been used, the Committee decided to support the application of the Ukrainian People's Deputies and the submission of an appropriate draft decision to the Supreme Council of Ukraine. Please support the committee's decision.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u33	Please, there are no other reasons? None. I'll put it to the vote in a minute. Here comes the vote. [[11:34:58]] For 256 Decision taken. Thank you. It is proposed to review with the President's proposals to review the Ukrainian Law on Amendments to the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine. This question is reported by Kichiaty Yuri Svoslavovich, a member of the Committee on State Building, Regional Policy, and Local Self - Government. Registration number 2355.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u34	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, respected TV, radio viewers! The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government prepared for consideration the Act on Amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine on Deputy District Heads, District Councils, Registration Number 2355 of 17.10.2006, with proposals by the President of Ukraine to it. The purpose of this bill is to improve the structures and leadership of the district council, the legal settlement of the issue of the number of deputies of the district councils, the definition of the procedure for the release of the deputy and the head of the council, not by two thirds of the votes of the deputies from the general council, but by a simple majority. The law that we are considering today was passed by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on March 15, this year. On 3 April of this year, the President of Ukraine returned the Law with proposals proposing to leave article 4, paragraph 1, of the bill in the current version of the Ukrainian Law on Local Self-Government in Ukraine and to agree on the provisions of section 5 and chapter 6 of the bill. The Committee on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government at its meeting, held on 23 May 2007, reviewed the proposals of the President of Ukraine to the Act and recommended that the Supreme Council of Ukraine partially accept the proposals of the President of Ukraine and adopt the Law in a new edition. But in the course of further consultations with members of our committee, we have come to the conclusion that we can agree with all the proposals made by the President of Ukraine. Please vote on this bill in a new edition, taking into account the proposals made by the President of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u35	I understood the committee's proposal. What will the MPs say about this? Actually, it's a second-reading law, because there's a comparative table and there's the President's proposal. The committee proposes to support the President's proposals. If this does not raise objections to MPs, please determine how to vote. It's about voting the law. Just take it off for a minute, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u36	Dear colleagues, I'm calling the reporter. The committee fully supports the President's proposals or should be based on what is written in the comparative table. Not all the President's proposals are supported in the comparative table.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u37	It's about that.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u38	That's why we have to vote differently.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u39	Because the committee suggests that the Council is still entitled to release its head by a simple majority, just as it does, it chooses its head. So that's the mirror reflection of this procedure.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u40	We agreed.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u41	No, no. Well, it's the President's proposal to leave at least two thirds of the deputies.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u42	They turned it down.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u43	And the committee rejected that offer. And now they say he agrees. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u44	Honourable Adam Ivanovich and Alexandre Alexandrovich, the committee holding its meeting, discussed on the basis of the question of the release of the deputy head of the district and district council by quorum in part two thirds or more of the votes. In this case, given the situation that we can agree to the President's proposal and leave it valid for the two-thirds vote to release the deputy head of the district or district council. And from the fact that we, together with you, are still ensuring the implementation of reform of local self-government in part in the overall context of political and constitutional reform in the discussions and discussions between members of the committee, we have generally agreed that we can agree with the President's insistence on leaving this rule in the old edition, that is to say, to leave at least two thirds of the votes in the release of the deputy heads of the district council.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u45	Jury Svetoslavovich, it's not about the deputies, it's about the 55th article, which says that in his work, the council's head and the accountable council can't be released from office by the council if at least two thirds of the deputies voted in favour of the secret ballot. The President proposes to maintain proper order. We proposed, voted not less than two thirds, replacing the words “vote the majority”. The committee rejected the President's proposal, it's not about the deputies, it's about the council's head. So the committee's decision is rejected, you say it's supported. Yes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u46	Adam Ivanovich, I insist once again, I have been instructed to speak on behalf of the committee after consultation with the committee members, after we have come to the conclusion that we can agree to the President's proposal by keeping the standard in freeing at least two thirds of the votes.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u47	In this case, as the committee's representative has reported, I put it to a vote, to support the President's proposal to maintain a valid rule of law. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u48	I mean, with the President's proposals.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u49	Yeah. So it's a bill with the President's proposals. Please. There's a vote coming. Let's support the president. [[11:42:28]] For 249 The President's opinion is taken into account and supported by the Ukrainian Parliament. A draft Act amending the Code of Administrative Offences on Liability for Flight Safety is being considered under the second reading procedure. Sinchenko Sergey Grigorovich, the head of the committee’s subcommittee on law enforcement, reports.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u50	Dear Alexander Alexander, distinguished national deputies! Your opinion is proposed for consideration in the second reading of a bill amending the Ukrainian Code of Administrative Offences concerning liability for flight safety violations introduced by the Cabinet of Ministers. The bill provides for increased administrative responsibility of aircraft operators for violating the requirements of legislation that regulates the use of airspace by establishing more fines in articles 111 “Violence of flight safety rules”, 112 “Violence of rules of conduct on aircraft”, 113 “Violence of rules of international flight” of the Ukrainian Code on Administrative Offences”. In preparing the bill’s committee for the second reading of the proposal for the text of the law, they agreed with the national deputies of Ukraine, the Chief Legal Authority of the Supreme Council, and the developers. Seven proposals were made for this project. Not just one is included in the first article of article 111 in the second edition. Next. When preparing for second reading, Stretovich’s proposal is taken into account. Excluded norm proposed by the drafters of the Bill on the inclusion of Part Six in Article 111 concerning the establishment of a new set of administrative offences – the operation of unregistered equipment, since it is covered by part five of the article “Implementation of flights in violation of regulatory acts governing the operation of aircraft, with the exception of unmanned aircraft”. Proposals to increase fines are partially taken into account, taking into account the minimum amount of fines provided for in the Criminal Code. In particular, from one hundred to one hundred fifty, from three hundred to four hundred, the committee proposes to impose fines ranging from twenty to forty, from thirty to fifty, and from fifty to seventy. The essence of the question. Why so? It's no longer possible, because then we'll have more severe sanctions than the Ukrainian Criminal Code. The adoption of the bill will allow increased public oversight of aviation safety to respond more quickly to air violations by aircraft operators and owners. Please support this bill as proposed by our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u51	The authors of the amendments also insist on reasoning. Galunenko, please. So let's look at the second amendment, so I understand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u52	So I made a few amendments, Alexander Alexandrovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u53	Let's do the second one first.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u54	Here's to the first one. In general. So from six types of violations, let's say one of the violations differs directly from those five. There's 30-40 minimum, there's 300-500. If this was what the rapporteur said to the sixth, let's say, a violation would not be a problem. Therefore, after working with the specialists of the State Aviation Administration, and in principle, they agreed, and here the Deputy Minister is present, and he is the head of the aviation administration, which should be but somewhat proportional to all violations, rather than dissipating with one another. That's why I'm actually insisting on my amendment.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u55	All your amendments?
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u56	On all the amendments.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u57	Here's two words. We used to have three to five. Three to five minimum salaries. But it's 17 times 3 from 50 to 100 bracelets. The Committee now proposes to increase between 20 and 40 – 340 - 680 bracelets a small violation. And they're offering 100, so 5,000 at once. So it's higher than the Penal Code. It is not possible to impose administrative rules from the perspective of jurisprudence, which means that administrative rules are higher than those of the Criminal Code. Well, it doesn't stick, you know. Although I don't mind.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u58	Sergei Grigorovich, he's talking about something else, he's talking about differential punishment for various types of violations. That's how I figured it out. Once again, Alexander Vasilovich, please, the word Galunenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u59	I want to clarify, let's say the sixth breach, it reads “for the operation of unregistered aviation technology”. What is it? It's like a private face bought a sports plane, hasn't been able to register yet, but it's in the sky that it's flying. He did no harm to anyone, but he did. Yeah, that's why he needs to be punished. But it's given from 300 to 500 – this is a nonsence, from 300 to 500 minimum. In those five cases, for example, the vehicle took off on the runway and at this point a plane was boarding. There's almost a disaster. Next moment. Constructions were built, say, or some firm near the airport, not agreeing, building, and not marking, and rejecting the requirements of the airport and the aviation authorities. What can happen? Face this building if it isn't.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u60	Well, you're talking about 300 to 500, and we didn't take it, because the committee rejected 300 to 500, because we have a maximum of 70 untaxed minimums, 70, which is 1190 griven, which is the maximum fine. We don't put 500 anywhere.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u61	I don't think Alexander Vasilovich really set a good example. The man bought a plane and crashed into the sky, and he was fined 300 dollars or 500 dollars. If he bought a plane.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u62	Ah, the minimum. So let him think about how he's already spent on a sports plane, so let him suffer while he registers it, because, you know, it's not co-ordinated prices. And if he did fly, what he paid for the plane was a mess compared to the fact that he paid the fine. I don't know, the committee was here. That's my offer. One minute, Ivan. We're not discussing this. Can we vote on any amendment, or can I put to the vote all the amendments of Deputy Galunenko? I'll put it to a vote. [[11:50:28]] For the 220. Then I'll put the entire text to the vote in the committee, please. [[11:50:51]] For 249 Decision supported, 249 in favor. Thank you. A bill is being considered to regulate the provision of benefits for maintenance services for buildings and buildings and adjuvant areas, utilities, and the acquisition of solid domestic fuel. Demcishen Vasil Vasilovich will report on this project. Please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u63	Honourable Alexandre Alexandrovich, distinguished national deputies, submitted by the Cabinet of Ministers, a bill on the organization of the payment of benefits from services, maintenance of houses and buildings and adjuvant areas, utilities and the acquisition of solid domestic fuel was adopted by the Supreme Council of Ukraine on 20 March this year. The bill aims at creating a level playing field in the introduction of housing and utility benefits, setting up a round of family members and defining the funding of benefits supported by both the Professional Committee and the Federation of Professionals of Ukraine. On May 16, this year, the committee reviewed the proposals made after the first reading. Most of them are counted. The members of the committee supported the proposals made by the deputies regarding the need to organize the bill alongside the benefits and State guarantees and the right to free use of housing and utility services. The amendments allow the government not to limit the right of individual categories of persons to obtain State guarantees in the form of free use of housing, an apartment with heating and lighting. According to the committee, the adoption of this law will provide a basis for the government to establish a clear order of accounting for individuals and their families who have the right to benefit from social or professional signs, a mechanism for calculating the legal and monetary dimension of benefits and government guarantees. The provisions of article 6 provide for the financing of aid - related expenses, state guarantees for subsidies from the State Budget to local budgets, which gradually, by amending special laws, will identify sources of professional aid. Expanded to parts of legislation that do not define housing and utility consumption standards, social justice in the provision of benefits will increase the efficiency of government spending. Please support the committee's decision and adopt the bill in second reading and in general.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, 11 amendments are all taken into account. The authors of the amendments have no objection to being supported by Parliament? No, it's not. There is reason to vote on the second reading of this project. I'll put him to the vote, please. Registration number 2801. [[11:54:28]] For 252 Decision taken. Project 2603 registration number. On the amendment to article 14 of the Ukrainian Act on the Fundamentals of the Social Protection of Persons with Disabilities in Ukraine. [[concerning public procurement]] From this point on, Peter Stepanovich Cibenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u65	Honorary colleagues, citizens of Ukraine, to implement the Supreme Council of Ukraine Order of 15 March 2007, issue 731-5 of the Committee on Pensioners, Veterans and Disabled Persons submits a revised draft of the Act amending article 14 of the Ukrainian Law on the Fundamentals of Social Protection for Persons with Disabilities, registration number 2603 and recommend that it be adopted in the second reading and as a whole as a law. Five comments and suggestions were received during the process of processing the project, of which four were taken into account in part. A comparative table of the draft law is being prepared by the Supreme Council’s Chief Legal Authority without any notice. The prescribed law does not require additional costs from the state budget of Ukraine. On behalf of the committee, I would like to ask you to support this law in the second reading and in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-06-14-m0.u66	The deputy of Seminoga, whose first proposal, considered only in part, does he not deny that we should stop at such an editorial as the committee suggests? No objection, so there is every reason to vote on this bill as a whole, I repeat, registration number 2603. I'll put it to a vote. [[11:56:26]] For 248 Decision taken. The head of the Economic Policy Committee, Platinum Vladimir Mikhajlovich, asks to include, not to consider, but only to include in the agenda of the day’s session, a draft law on the introduction of additions to article 2 of the Ukrainian Law on the regulation of trade in goods in the field of external economic activity. It's a government project, a government project asked to be included in the agenda. I'm voting on this proposal. [[11:57:09]] For the 250. Decision taken. A number of other statements and confirmations were made by the national deputies. Before that, I will announce that I have signed a court order for the removal of the MPs of Turkinov and Immortal Roman Petrovich in connection with the fact that they have more than 20 days in line with their new posts, for which they have been appointed, with a parliamentary mandate, with a parliamentary status. The court will therefore decide the matter in accordance with the law. And here I am announcing the statements of Mikolia Bagraeva. “For the purpose of granting the President of Ukraine”, it reads, “an additional reason for the early termination of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine for the first time, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, that the mandate of the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in accordance with the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine”. Well, at any rate, the content is understandable. Andrey Verevski also writes a statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the constituency faction of the constituency of the “Julia Tymoshenko” which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my powers as the national deputy of Ukraine are to be terminated in the order directed by part six of article 81 of the Constitution.” Vitali Kurilo. [[That's not what was in.]] Mr. Kurilo's statement, please let the committee consider it. Here's the thing. He's appointed president of the university and, if I'm not mistaken, he has a statement that he's making up his parliamentary powers on the grounds that he's moving on to another job. Let the committee consider this question, the regulatory committee. And, if, tomorrow, without all that Papanov said, “the noise and the dust ” will simply cease the authority and the end will be, according to his statement. Labunska Angelika writes so. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the election block of Yulia Timoshenko, by which I was selected by the Ukrainian National Deputy, my authority as the Ukrainian National Deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine. So did Vladimir Makienko. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Uljana Mistpane writes such a statement. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council’s fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, on the list of which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Gregory Nemira writes: “In order to give the President of Ukraine additional reasons for the early termination of the Fifth Council’s terms of office, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” Pashinsky Sergey signs the application on April 18th. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in the sixth part of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” On April 18, he wrote Taran-Terren's application. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency block “Clock of Yulia Timoshenko”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81.” He's writing a statement from Chapinoga Vitali. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the long-standing bloc of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block”, by which I was elected by the national deputy of Ukraine, my mandate as the national deputy of Ukraine is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81.” 18 numbers are written. This is me deliberately repeating the 18th, because he works in another institution and according to the law, he has to make his authorization automatically based on his statement here in the session room. If he does not file an application, then in 20 days the court will decide the matter. Vitaly Zudnowski, right? Magnificently writes a statement of this content. “In order to provide the President of Ukraine with additional grounds for the early termination of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s fifth vocation, I will declare my withdrawal from the deputy faction “Bloika Yulia Timoshenko”. In connection with the exit from the parliamentary faction of the constituency of the “Julia Tymoshenko Block” which I was elected as a national deputy, my mandate as the Ukrainian national deputy is to be terminated in the order set out in part six of article 81 of the Constitution of Ukraine.” This is also the content of Alexander Bondar's statement from “Our Ukraine”. He wrote it on April 19. “Following the President’s decree on the permanent cessation of the Supreme Council of Ukraine’s powers” of 2 April of the seventh year, here is a slightly different motivation, “considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the deputy faction “Our Ukraine” in the Supreme Council of Ukraine”. And Peter Yushchenko writes the same statement, but a little different meaning. “Following the Presidential Decree of Ukraine on the permanent suspension of the Supreme Council of Ukraine” of 2 April 2007, considering it impossible to continue the activities of the discredited Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call, I declare my withdrawal from the membership of the “Our Ukraine” MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth call.” And the signature. The application was written on April 18. Yes, we take this into account, and the passage of these documents will be the same as the previous statements. I declare the morning session closed. And please, tomorrow we're discussing extremely important issues at the request of the government. I'm asking you to arrive at the right time. At 10 a.m., the meeting will begin. Good for you.
