ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u1	Good morning, distinguished deputies, journalists, invited guests of the Supreme Council, radio audiences, TV sets! Today is April 30. And in view of what has happened: today there is no nominee in the Supreme Council -- and we welcome nouns at each meeting, I think we should welcome the entire Ukrainian people with tomorrow's holiday -- the first of May, to wish everyone success. [[Applause]] Wishing that every year our society, citizens, could all have the opportunity and the reasons for improving the welfare of people, for it is indeed a holiday when a person has a job, a decent salary, and a family that can support him. I think that Parliament, in particular, is also called upon to create conditions for this to be a reality. And that's what we're all set for. So let's say hello again to the festival. Success, good and happiness in every family. [[Applause]] In accordance with the Rules, we have time for the presentations of authorized factions and.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u2	It's on its own. We're going to use this right now, but we're going to have a roll-up. Please register. [[10:05:31]] 256 national deputies registered. The morning session is open. Thus, according to the Rules, factions can express their reasoning about what concerns them. I'm asking you to sign up for factions first. Now the MPs can sign up separately. Please, we have registered: from the Party of Regions, the factions, the Chechtev, the Red Cross, from the Socialists, Alexandrovska from the Communists, the Oily, from the Block of Yulia Timoshenko. Please, Chechetov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u3	Dear Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished people's deputies, distinguished voters. It is regrettable that we have been almost two steps away from the political settlement of the situation in the country and the achievement of a political compromise, when there has been virtually a few days to await the decision of the Constitutional Court, to take this decision of the Constitutional Court as a basis and, by moving away from it, to hold a round table to find a political compromise, taking into account the interests of all, first and foremost, of the Ukrainian State, and not the corporate interests of individual political forces. And it is a pity that the President of the country, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, who, while in Strasbourg, promised the world that he would comply with the resolution of PARJE in that he agreed to take any decision of the Constitutional Court and, by moving away from it, to hold a round table to reach a political compromise. But literally a week later, he did exactly the opposite. And the group of its immediate surroundings, once again by introducing the President, has signed a decree that is even more critical, in particular of legality, constitutionality than the previous one, to which it has crossed out the practical achievement of a political compromise. Thus, to date, we have moved even further away from the point at which the political crisis could indeed be resolved. Of course, it is regrettable that the President of the country came to the opposition's rally and took part in a rally of opposition, thus clearly placing himself as the leader of the orange group. I am sorry, I repeat, that he did not prove to be the leader of the entire country, but showed himself as the leader of the orange group. I think that millions of people expected the President of the country to speak both at the first rally and at the second rally, yes, let him say the same position, let him try to convince his supporters and those who take a different position, but to speak to the entire Ukrainian people. And so, once again, I deeply regret this narrow position of the President of the country, Victor Andreevich Yushchenk. Absolutely right Prime Minister Viktor Fedorović Janukovic, when he said that elections could be held in two cases: either on the basis of the Constitution, or on the basis of political compromise, when all political forces agreed to such elections, then a legislative basis could be established. There is no third option. But now let us model the situation, which will be, if we conduct, allow, parliamentary elections, and suddenly defeats a political force that seeks to pursue Ukrainian policies for the benefit of the Ukrainian State and the Ukrainian people. The President remains in position to implement the pro-American policy of rapid NATO entry. A conflict is being established, the majority are coming to Parliament to work, and the President will engage in discussions on the foreign policy course, on joining NATO and so on and so forth. Therefore, in order to avoid, in order to enable us to immediately roll up our sleeves, in the event of elections, to be able to work and work cleanly while dealing with the economic problems of the day, it is necessary, in my view, to hold simultaneous elections for both the President and the Parliament, and further, I think, to hold a referendum on NATO. The third paragraph of the NATO referendum. That is when the people, the sole source and authority of the Constitution, vote for a political power, will clearly see whether they will vote in favour of the political power and candidate of the Presidents, who promises to pursue the pro-Ukrainian policy for the benefit of the Ukrainian State and people, or whether they will vote in favour of the political force that promises to carry out the pro-American policy, the prompt entry into NATO. [[and the Presidential candidate]] I think that if the President of the country, Victor Andreevich Yushchenko, does not cheat and play an honest political game, he must agree and give the people the opportunity as the only source and holder of power, under the Constitution, to determine their own destiny in the simultaneous election of the President, the Supreme Council of the Referendum on NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u4	Thank you. The word is from the Mendus Socialist faction, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u5	Jaroslav Mendoza, faction of the Socialist Party of Ukraine. Dear Alexander Alexander, dear colleagues! In 2004, standing on Maidan, the newly elected president of Ukraine, Victor Yushchenko, promised the people who had brought him to power, who would report each month on the implementation of their obligations, on actions aimed at improving the lives of citizens. In two and a half years, Yushchenko performed in Majdan only four times, and on the occasion of official action. There was nothing to report to the guarantor of the Constitution. And for the first time in his presidency, Yushchenko went to European Square, and not on the occasion of the holiday, the reason is simple: the President suddenly remembered that he only got his chair because of the millions of voters, not the millions of Mučakov Group, which is now surrounded by him. Victor Andryovich, during his reign, did not even take on any structural reforms in the economy. He promised that the rich would share with the poor, he promised to put the bandits in jail and instead put the bandits in the President's Secretariat and Naftogaz Ukraine. Now Viktor Andriyovich is again in the position of the applicant. The President hopes that this time the people will grant him the authority that he is so free of charge. The “Ukrainian Truth ” published an interesting article about Yushchenka. Journalist Sergey Lechchenko, the same one that Viktor Andriyovich publicly insulted at the press conference, said that if Yushchenka was previously considered a loch, he is now an outlaw. Is it possible in Europe that journalists use the definition of "loh" or "noinless" to characterize any policy? The president does not fight for reforms, action programmes, or ideals. Yashchenko is fighting solely for the authority of herself and her sponsor businessmen, for the control of the Department of Public Affairs, for her colossal privileges. It's a power struggle for power, and that's why it's completely pointless. Obviously, the main cause of the struggle against parliament is the lack of presidential elections for the term. To the extent that Victor Andriyovich understands the state's problems, he was shown at a rally Friday, where the President admitted that the elections are only necessary because he did not like the Supreme Council Head Alexander Alexander Moroz. It's convenient, in paws, tactics. Although it is clear throughout Europe and throughout the democratic world that it is the President who is the guarantor of today's state crisis. It is Yushchenko who is fueling the conflict between Parliament and the President. It is he who opposes the involvement of European mediators to resolve the crisis in the country, because for all of Europe it is obvious that the crisis was caused by the President himself and his environment. Thus, the new decisions of the Supreme Council, adopted in accordance with the Constitution, will be a better response to an excited speech by the guarantor in the European Square. It's imperative to hold early elections, obviously, that it's really important for society, but, of course, the purgatory should go through both the Supreme Council and the President himself. I've set the stage for the presidential election and the Parliament more than enough. We believe that in the fall people should give the President an estimate of their jobs. Surprisingly, Yushchenko’s fear of early elections is that the Ukrainian people will objectively express their appreciation of his actions. In Europe, the election of Heads of State as a result of the state crisis is really, really common. The president of France de Gaulle himself initiated early elections to gain the confidence of citizens in a crisis situation. Our president is afraid of that for some reason. He fears that in the elections, he will be reminded of hundreds of unfulfilled promises in Maydan in 2004. People will evaluate those oligarchic clans that sponsor Yashchenka, the criminal elements that actually rule Banka today instead of him. The head of state is entitled to much, but only if he has at least a drop of authority and respect in society, in his citizens. And if Yushchenko wants to be respected by the people who stood up for him for the presidency of Maidan, he must again trust the people with his destiny. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u6	Alexandrovsky? Peter Mikolaiovich? Simonenko speaks from the faction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u7	Dear colleagues, in expressing the view of our faction, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there are no broadcasts now and that our voters, Ukrainians, unfortunately, have no opportunity to hear the position that we are advocating here and what views we are expressing by assessing what is really going on. I am convinced that each of us weighs the situation in Ukraine, including what is happening in Estonia. We are with you witnesses of how the American Department, as president of a country, has been dutifully dealing with our history, not merely trying to rewrite it, and they have already “snare” it, destroying the honour, glory, shed blood and dignity of our peoples. And what happened in Estonia is more than a confirmation and today it is being prepared in Ukraine, because the President of Ukraine, as we all know, is being set up for US dollars, and no one has any doubt about it. This was done when the Americans formed the official fifth pillar of Ukraine by various grants, financing funds, and it was this supply that allowed the poor and poor to form those who, without considering the consequences of a decision, created prerequisites for the salesability and the plenticity of the authorities. We are witnessing that, by completing the process of formation of puppetry Governments and in this case, the Presidents, the same United States of America, without embarrassment, have decided and allocated funds for the financing of these programmes. What am I talking about, respectable colleagues? We must not forget with you that the Americans have passed a special law and have already allocated money for the development of the so-called democracy and Ukraine's accession to NATO. That is, the Americans have already identified a specific strategic or tactical task for the current orange regime in the face of the President and the governors. I do not accidentally say "regimes," because indeed, the issue that we have discussed with you here, we have talked about with concern, because it has a follow-up. Remember, in the speech when we appointed or defined our attitude towards the formation of the Government, we spoke and said: “The orange sabotage began in the country”. And this sabotage has now become virtually a coup d'état and a process of usurpation of power. This is exactly what they want to complete their stay in power, because they need to comply very quickly with the order that was determined by the Americans when Yushchenko was elected president. Next. I would like to emphasize that we, the political parties, the communists, the Party of Regions and the Socialists, reaffirm that, after we have declared our participation in the elections only legitimate elections, remain in position today, that, after the Constitutional Court's decision to assess the President's decrees, only then will we, the political parties: the Company, the Regions and the Socialists decide to participate in the elections. Thus, today, deliberately, especially after his intervention in Maidan, in Maidan, i.e. in the European Square, it has become clear that Yushchenko is deliberately and politically trying to break Ukraine apart by, in principle today, the parties that make up the majority of Parliament through their factions and take full responsibility for the administration of the country by themselves in accordance with the Constitution are trying not to participate in the elections. This deepens further the division of Ukraine. Thus, today's attempt to usurp power will end by the fact that part of Ukraine alone will, in fact, remain in the context of the management of the current orange power in the face of the Resident and his governors under control. The rest of Ukraine will seek its way and they are urged to do so by dismembering Ukraine. I reiterate that the President is a criminal in a country where he is trying to split Ukraine today and thus, in fact, to sow further hostility not only at the political level, at the spiritual, religious, ethnic and other levels. I think we should do the following: First. This is, first of all, to present to our citizens today the idea that we will act only within the framework of the law. I have already announced, and I propose, to further address all our constituents and to organize signatures in support of the People's Deputies'Initiative on the Initiation of impeachment and in such a way that our citizens understand their support for the initiative. I believe that we must say again today that Parliament is capable, that the Cabinet of Ministers is operational and ready to continue to decide everything today.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u8	Thank you. The word is given by Olijnik Vladimir Mikolaiovich of the faction of Yulia Timoshenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u9	Dear Head! Dear colleagues! I have no legal right to speak on behalf of the block because no one authorized me. But I'm Vladimir Oilynik, representing the Ulysses of Timoshenko individually. You know, in this room at least, if you don't come in, on the one hand, you come in right now and you buy or you scare, on the other hand, you listen to the President in Poland, that's how you have to get all the opposition in. I would like the President not only to speak there in Europe, because I understand that if he declares in Europe that we do not have a Parliament, he will lose the face of a Democrat. But I would like him to say the same to everyone on Saturday: “Come into the hall and work.” Because today, I've been forced into this room by, you know, anxiety that the worst scenario we see today in Ukraine is that it's a divisive state. And I want to testify because there are different, you know, choices, you can have your own judgements, and there is a testimony, that's what's going on. On April 4, we weren't meeting here, we were meeting at the party office. And there was this difficult discussion about the President's decree of April 2. And in this discussion in all the deputies, not now, and then, I've expressed my point of view: essentially the unconstitutional decree itself, in form -- it needs to be implemented, but the execution of the decree is problematic. And there are many things that need to be resolved within the framework of the Constitution in Parliament, changing legislation. I didn't like it. And when I said that if we look at another scenario of events, we can go beyond just the constitutional field, we can not control the situation at all. And one of the party’s deputy heads said of this: “It’s no big deal. Here, Yeltsin, defending democracy in the 93rd year, I am witnessing, using force." And then there were things on the faction that were needed for the entire Ukrainian people to know -- which turns out to be the President's Administration, because I asked and who were the developers there, the lawyers of the President's Administration -- there are draft decrees, non-constitutional, I immediately claim that constitutional judges have called back; there are draft decrees for the formation of a new CWC -- is an unconstitutional way; there is a draft decree, if the government does not comply with the President's decree, and there is a return of the previous composition of the government. I don't rule it out because I haven't heard that there's a logical order for a state of emergency. I was surprised that in the rhetoric of the President, the guarantor of the Constitution today dominates another word that was so far from the electoral system, the commander-in-chief. It is constantly emphasized that power can be used. We led the situation to such an absurdity that it was no longer clear to ordinary citizens what was going on in the country, for I prayed to God that Viktor Andriyovich would not go to the rally on Saturday. He had to go out on one and the other. And even better, I'd like you to put up one of these pitches and put a matching position on it, and then people would calm down, and we'd all go to the next election. He went to that field that was closer to his heart, and I understand him there being praised; but he must come to that field that he was recognized by the President in his time. It's important. Because you remember his trip to Donetsk's candidate and you remember him in Donetsk as president -- it was different emotional perceptions. But that part of the Ukrainians, they're Ukrainians, they submit and they say, if the majority wins, then the President, not half of Ukraine, but of all Ukraine, and they're going to take this step. Today's the two majors. What about the unification of Ukraine? The President's participation in one field, ignoring another, is that before the unification of Ukraine? Today, in fact, two general prosecutors, because even in such a God -forsaken village, they know that if a person in a hospital goes to court again, his judgment will be reinstated at work. So why bring this situation to absurdity? Please tell me if you do.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u10	Let him continue.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u11	I'd like some time, because.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u12	Speak, speak.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u13	If the new Attorney General, and I respect both the Bear and the Piscoon as experts, and I believe in their high morals. If the new Attorney-General and his, more specifically, investigators of the Attorney-General file a criminal case for failure by officials of the President's decree of April 2, and that officer who has not allocated the funds will lead to the Supreme Council of Ukraine's decision not to finance, i.e. not to comply with the decree and bring a transcript, where the People's Deputy Piscoon voted in favour of the decree. Please tell me what to do to the investigator. And I'm a professional here, and he needs to be questioned by both the Sandman and everyone who's made that decision as witnesses. If an apriori is declared illegal, it means that the status of a witness can be found in the status of the accused. Please tell me if the opposition and the President here don't recognize that there is a parliament and it works. And the Attorney General, who was a deputy, was sitting here in this room, voting and deciding that Parliament was active, what was to do with this Attorney General? What would be the trust of society on his part when he interpreted that as a deputy and a lawyer he acted one way, one way and the other as the Attorney General? Once again, I emphasize that I respect both the Piscoon and the Bear as a professional and moral person. But does this not undermine the basics of the State? Doesn't it destroy the Constitution, that people are already confused, because the differences between politicians are gradually growing between the contradictions between the prosecution and the various prosecutors, the CBC between the different members of the CTC and so on. Is this for unity or for division? Apparently, to hell with it. I had the impression that politicians had waved their hand in half of Ukraine. Please tell me that you have not noticed that the frequency of one’s trips to your favorite regions is greater than where you should go, where you need to listen, where you need to learn to talk to people, because then you are not a politician, you are a statesman. Because, of course, in Donetsk, explain why you need to compare UPA soldiers to those who have liberated Ukraine, it's not easy, it's not from a television screen, it's to talk to people face-to-face, it's to quote evidence. Who's going there? But who's going from Donetsk to explain in Lviv why the status of the Russian language needs to be made public today. It seemed as if they had just waved their hand and said, ‘ All, Ukraine in half! Well, I understand those in Lviv who are in Donetsk. What do you do with my beloved Crimson if you share it? How will you share the city of Kirov, Poltavstina? So I call on everyone here in this room and the voters, let's unite, because the democratic elections that will result in the division of Ukraine are worthless! Ukraine must come out of these choices united and updated! Now what are the suggestions? We probably won't be able to make any changes to the Constitution. The first is the election of both the Supreme Council and the President of Ukraine either in turn or in a timely manner. [[It's already a legal question.]] This merely puts trust in one government body and another. But by consent, not in opposition, not in favor of the operation of all administrative resources, so that there will be doubts about the legitimacy of the outcome itself. Second, in principle, these are open lists, because today they are closed not only for the people, but for the parties, for the parties, for the one-party! When I heard, you know, after my speech, the reactions of those who attended the convention showed that they had not even been named after their father, and they were eventually put to the test. And this is a list discussion? Is that democracy? Such a respectable person, because I called Levko Grigorovich Lukyanenko, this is conscience, the authority of the democratic forces, who was not invited to the assembly, for he would probably disagree. So open lists are open to people to vote for parties and for specific personalities. Next. To complete constitutional reform and ultimately to have people choose their executive power there, then it will serve the interests of the community. The next proposal is to cancel the party lists to the local authorities. We have already seen that there are party interests and individual party leaders, buying party leaders on the ground, manipulating and exploiting power, and depriving the land. And it's not for the benefit of the people. We need people to choose their own power and their own MPs by looking into his eyes. Perhaps anticorruption mechanisms include the following: shortening the term of office to two years. In five years it is possible to make such a mistake for the Ukrainian people. And there used to be a system -- two years that allowed me to definitely monitor the actions. And the last. Similarly, it is necessary to select judges if we see that this is the case, to choose for the first few terms globally, and then, of course, to give them the status to life. In conclusion, I want to address you. Dear voters, dear colleagues, I think what will happen is enough common sense for us to understand one thing: Ukraine is the only one, and if we preserve its integrity, both children and grandchildren will somehow deal with a lot of problems. But if we're being manipulated, if we lose this whole struggle for democracy, no one will forgive us.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u14	Thank you. In place of Lukyanov, Hermann speaks. Please. Vladimir Mikolaiovich took the word “in the struggle for democracy” in quotes, he simply did not say, because it is not a struggle for democracy.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u15	Dear colleagues, on April 28, the President of Ukraine spoke on the "morning" stage. There was neither the presidential standard nor the coat of arms of Ukraine, but only the symbolism of the opposition political forces that previously make up the minority in Ukraine. The president said from this "orange" area that he cares about Ukraine. Despite all the mistakes Victor Yushchenko has made lately, I would like to believe the President of Ukraine. Because if you can't trust the President of Ukraine, if you can't respect him, it's a very sad reality. So, despite what the President is doing wrong, we try to respect him and we would like to advise him: Mr. President, if you are the President of all Ukraine, and not two or three areas, don't go out on any grounds or orange or white-blue. If you want to go out to the people, call your site, one that you've entered and those who go out into the European area and those who go out into the area of independence. We're going to help you set up a field like this. Moreover, we will even come to him, listen to you, and on certain conditions, perhaps even support him. But we will only support the President of all Ukraine, not the President of Lviv, Ternopil and Frankiv region. Your action, Mr. President, on April 28th is no different than the federalization of Ukraine is now real. You've done what the President has done so passionately. You know. Viktor Andriyovich, Separatism is when the President of the constituency, the independent Ukraine, clearly takes sides with only one political power. This is called Separatism, Mr. President, and Separatism must be held accountable. I don't want to. [[Applause]] I don't want to have a separatist president, so I think if the President doesn't correct his position, we have to re-elect such a president. I believe that what Yushchenko did on April 28 is compared to the Nordic, as the Poles say. And, Mr. President, I'm truly sorry you fell so low. But I believe I still believe that you can still correct your position and your mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we have taken advantage of the time spent in accordance with the Rules for the Communication of Situations in Our Society today. Well, I can see that the writings of Crnowil, Scoobashewsky and others insist on an extension of 10 minutes, because the time has been taken by Volodymyr Olijnik, who is not so often from the Tymoshenko Block. So it's clear that he was sent to a meeting. Let's take another 10 minutes. Is there no objection? Then I don't vote. Please, Mr. Cranwell.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u17	Dear fellow citizens! We've already mentioned the President's previous speech on Maidan, actually at the European Square at a political rally, let's speak frankly at the BUIT rally, which is now served by other political forces in the orange camp. After Kirilenko, Baloga, and others gave their voters the full benefit of what the electorate had responded to, by the way, it can be said that the President is now serving one political power, namely one man in Ukraine. During his speech, during his appearance, he, as was emphasized, without presidential standards, in fact, without representing himself as President of all Ukraine, carried out an act of political self-denial from the office of President of Ukraine. We must admit that if we have a President of a constitutional violator today, a person who escapes responsibility before the Constitutional Court, there is no President in Ukraine today. In Ukraine, it is the President’s Secretariat that is now undergoing an uninterrupted legal nihilism. I want to remind you of one moment that we've forgotten: Decree 26 of April does not exist. There is no one who is not published according to the rules of the Supreme Council. According to the Constitution, the decree on the dissolution of Parliament -- the right motives, the wrong motives -- can only take place after consultation with Parliament's leadership and faction leaders. The President has even forgotten about this, since the Constitution has not been visited recently. Epopea around the head of the Kiev administration, Eugene Jovtak The President's order, which he was trying to take down one criminal crime, actually multiplied by four new criminal offences and so forth. The dismissal without the appointment of the Cabinet of Ministers and the representation of local administrators in these positions are yet another criminal offence after usurpation. So today we can say that if we leave this room, if we stop the political stand for the implementation of the Constitution in Ukraine, legal nihilism will go much further. Today it concerns certain matters of order, issues of power, distribution of power, further issues of property, then it will apply to the rights and freedoms of every citizen, because the first part of the Constitution will not be guaranteed then. In such circumstances, we must demonstrate and continue to show greater determination and demonstrate that this is an active parliament. I have a question to the Head of Parliament about the fact that 15 days have passed since we finally adopted the first law, as far as I know, on the road-building tranche. It must be published without the President's signature because the President ignored it and accepted by the government for immediate execution. And another nuance. We must not submit to any strange criminal orders from the President. We took an oath from the Supreme Council under article 79 of the Constitution. It's literally 10 seconds. Where we said: implement the Constitution and the laws of Ukraine.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u18	Let him read it again.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u19	We did not take responsibility for carrying out criminal orders that did not conform to the Constitution. We will execute this decree if the Constitutional Court confirms its constitutionality. The execution of this decree is now a criminal offence under article 60 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u20	Skubaszewski. Kiselov, please, Vasil Alexiyovich. Scubaszewski conveys the word of Kiselov.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u21	Thank you. Dear colleagues, distinguished voters. First of all, I want to tell you that there will be no early elections in Ukraine. I'll explain my position. The President is convincing himself, not us. And I'm gonna prove it now. He realized, the President realized that without the consent of all the political forces represented in today's parliament, not the constables, the concubines, the lipsticks who sleep and see that there are time-bound elections to come here. The President must agree with these forces. And until there is the agreement of all the political forces present here today, there will be no elections. I'll tell you why. So they're not going to happen first because voters demand open lists, my colleagues have already talked about it, and that's the way it is. What will change? They all understand and even sociological surveys confirm that more than half of the voters in Ukraine do not want to hold elections that will not give Ukraine anything other than money spent and further economic slips. Second, we will not allow one person’s treaty to be dissolved by the Supreme Council or to be terminated on a permanent basis, and one person’s treaty has been plagued by a state for two months. So I'm telling you frankly, we can't allow elections when there's no legal basis. And for the President to remember, I want to remind him not at 13, but in 15 regions today we control the situation. And I want to warn him that if he even comes in any way before such illegal elections, the polling stations will not be June 24th, no, once he's transferred again, there'll be a decree that won't open where our districts are today, our regions. I can honestly say that because people won't go to these elections. The commission won't work, so it's going to split Ukraine. And I'd like to draw your attention to a very serious warning. There's a web site of Ukrainian lie, I'm telling it, and there's information from a Lviv political scientist who's saying right now that the western part of Ukraine should be separated, let them be themselves, let them be the same. We wrote, a group of members of the Supreme Council, wrote a letter to the Bureau. There is no answer. It's a crime against the state, it's a rift in Ukraine. You can't let that happen. So I don't agree with my colleague Mendoza that the President is afraid of early elections because he isn't. He understands he's got seven percent today, he realizes he's already broke political, he's got a fiasco. That's why it's over. The political crisis must be and will be resolved, but only through political arrangements, as the people will decide on a legitimate basis, will there be no other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u22	Radziewski has the floor, please, from the Party of the Regions.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u23	Thank you, Reverend Alexander Alexander! Alexei Radziewski, faction of the Lvivščina Region Party Dear colleagues, national MPs! The great Ukrainian people, all of us bitterly note that the escalation of political tension in our society continues with great regret. We all also find that the ideologists of this unprecedented escalation of political tension are the President and his environment. I'm reminding you of how our coalition was formed most in the Supreme Council. We all remember that from March 26, 2006 to June, those who claimed leadership in our country were never able to agree. They've broken up all their relationships, they've taken up positions, and it ended up with the Party of Regions, the Communist Party, the Socialist Party of Ukraine taking responsibility for the further fate of our nation, and they've started to show great examples of dynamic governance of political, economic, organizational processes in our society. Today, the government of Viktor Fedorovich Yanukovic, with the support of the coalition, is demonstrating whether or not the highest dynamism of economic development in Europe. It is now possible after a devastating legacy -- economic downturn from a well-known talent in government paws -- was adopted by the Yanukovich government in 2007, several times the social protection standards, social standards in the budget area were raised in 2007, and this process will continue. I want all Ukrainians to have confidence in this. The position of the President today is that there is a political crisis in the Supreme Council. Please tell me, is there a crisis in the Supreme Council when you look at this hall? The Supreme Council works, it adopts laws, the Cabinet of Ministers works, making all new and new positive decisions. We have no reason to refer to the President. And I can tell you that there will be no June 24th elections, it's already visible to every ordinary Ukrainian and every citizen of our state. I want to turn around, take advantage of the opportunity.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u24	Let me finish, but get it over with.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u25	I want to speak to Mr. President, on behalf of millions of Ukrainians, millions of voters who support the coalition, support the Yanukovic government, support us with you. Mr. President! You have sown a political wind, but you have every opportunity to receive a political storm that will take all of today’s political shulers in charge of you. Think, Mr. President, there is still room for settlement, there is a political solution to the situation, so take advantage of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u26	We used time to communicate. I can't take it anymore, I'm sorry. So I'd like to pay attention to some of the nuances that the MPs are talking about right now. First of all, regarding the rally, it's obviously not my job to comment on this phenomenon of social life or the fact of social life. However, I want to say that it was not a rally of opposition, it was a rally of power. Because it's about the President being the head of state. 24 of the 25 heads of district administrations represent “Our Ukraine” the political power that supports the President and these leaders appointed by the President. 99 percent of the heads of district administrations are appointed by the President and represent an appropriate political power. So to say that it is an opposition, then it is unclear who is the authority? I think we need to draw conclusions for ourselves and the radio audience who are now listening to us, too, for ourselves to conclude that this is simply a struggle for absolute power. And the struggle for absolute power is called the "usurpation" of power, which is prohibited by the Constitution and the last part of the fifth article of the Constitution. Therefore, everyone must act in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, which provides for the right of citizens to defend their interests, in an appropriate manner. Next. The idea was that early elections could be held on the basis of political consultations. Who gave the right to hold elections on the basis of political consultations? On the basis of these, what can we say, five even, or the few political parties represented here, sign up for the entire nation? We can only make choices on the basis of law, not on the basis of consultations. Therefore, there may be two outcomes: either the Constitutional Court declares the President's decree correct and then we submit ourselves to such a decision of the court, or we amend the legislation that provides for the possibility of holding early elections. The other thing is, is this just going to be a parliamentary election, or is this going to be an election for the president? Obviously the political situation unfolds in such a way that it requires a clean letter to start work, because the structures that have come to power on the basis of people's trust, to find understanding among themselves, we need to give people the opportunity to make a different choice, including, and to correct the laws that need to be prepared, it's also about the ability of people to appreciate both parties and the specific characters represented there, and to take into account many other nuances. You don't have to count on the moral virtues of anyone and the President and the deputies and so on. Regrettably, it is not a legal category, but political practice, especially in recent years, shows that morals cannot be referred to, for the word has been spoken especially by those who have no bearing on and have never been the bearer of such morality. It is a sad thing to say in Ukrainian politics, but it is obviously necessary to consider it. I would also like to confirm once again that one of the statements here was that the political parties represented in Parliament today have made it absolutely clear that we will not participate in the illegal elections that the President insists on. And that's what everyone needs to understand, is that it's a temptation, except for two general prosecutors, to have two more parliaments, obviously a few presidents and so on. It's not a state. That is why we must bring everything into line with the Constitution and to one source of authority, to a people whose interests are expressed by the Ukrainian Parliament and to a single document on which the entire legal system can be built into the Constitution. So all the claims that we're not in the Constitution, that we're here for a referendum, we're going to pick something, we're going to prepare it, but you're going to do everything as provided for in the Constitution, and that's the way it is. And it won't be the second time. So I would like us to put a dot in this discussion for today. In the meantime, I would like to propose to you, on the basis of the initiative of the legislators, the deputies, to consider the Supreme Council of Ukraine's ruling on the election of the President of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine. I would like you to vote on this document to include it in the agenda. His registration number 3506. I am putting to the vote the question of the inclusion in the agenda of the Supreme Council's Supreme Order on the election of the President of Ukraine and the people's deputies of Ukraine. There's a vote coming. [[10:56:28]] For 253 Decision taken. Let us consider the matter in substance. I would ask that many citizens listen to us, to read the contents of this document, which, in my view, answers all the questions that concern people in the context of today’s political situation. Order of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the election of the President of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine. “On March 26, 2006, Ukraine held elections to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, which was assessed by international observers as free and democratic. As a result of the election to the Supreme Council of Ukraine, the national deputies of Ukraine were elected from 5 political parties and electoral blocs, 3 parliamentary factions which, according to the Constitution of Ukraine, have formed a coalition of MPs in the Supreme Council of Ukraine since 8 December 2004. Since the first days of the Supreme Council of Ukraine's activities, 5 vocations in the coalition of MP factions, as well as in the Supreme Council itself, have arisen problems with the implementation of their constitutional powers, especially those relating to the formation of the Ukrainian government, the legislative provision of its activities. These problems were largely related to improper implementation by the President of Ukraine as a result of his own vision of his constitutional powers in the context of the proposed changes to the basic law after January 1, 2006. Finally, on 2 April 2007, the President of Ukraine issued Decree No. 264-2007 on the permanent suspension of the powers of the Supreme Council of Ukraine. On 26 April of this year, in an effort to avoid a Constitutional Court ruling on the constitutionality of the decree, the President of Ukraine issued a new decree No. 355-2007, which he recognized as having lost the validity of the decree number, the decree of 2 April, without the legal basis, repeated the decision to terminate the terms of office of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on the fifth summons and to appoint the term elections to Parliament on 24 June 2007. On the same day, April 26, the President of Ukraine, aware of the content of today's constitutional and legal realities, which do not allow for the constitutional responsibility of the President of Ukraine to be effectively secured, despite the order established by the Constitution of Ukraine, has taken a decision on the Attorney General of Ukraine. Such unconstitutional actions by the President of Ukraine have systematically exacerbated the political situation in Ukraine, which can have severe negative consequences both for Ukrainian citizens and for the state as a whole. Considering that under such circumstances only the Ukrainian people can solve the artificial political crisis on the basis of part two of article three, part two of article five of the Constitution of Ukraine, as the sole representative, the representative body of the Ukrainian people, the Supreme Council of Ukraine decides: First. It is necessary to recognize the need to hold the elections of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies within 90 days of the entry into force of the Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which provides for the holding of the elections of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies, but no later than 9 December 2007. I'm asking for your attention. The other one. The Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine shall take the necessary measures to ensure the financing of the election of the President of Ukraine and the Supreme Council of Ukraine in scope and order as defined by law. Third. The Central Electoral Commission shall ensure the proper implementation of the Ukrainian Law on the State Register of Elections and the timely preparation and conduct of the elections of the President of Ukraine and the Ukrainian National Deputies. Four. A temporary special commission to draft Ukrainian laws amending the Constitution of Ukraine, taking into account the proposal of the President of Ukraine and other subjects of the right of legislative initiative to prepare and submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 15 June 2007, a draft Act amending the Constitution of Ukraine, which, inter alia, provides for the holding of the elections of the President of Ukraine and the national deputies of Ukraine. Fifth. The Committee of the Supreme Council of Ukraine on State Building, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government will submit to the Supreme Council of Ukraine by 10 June 2007 a draft law on the election of Ukrainian National Deputies in a new edition, including the holding of elections for so-called open party lists of candidates from political parties, electoral blocs of the party and the draft law on the amendment to the Law on Elections of the President of Ukraine. Six. This decision takes effect from the day of publication.” Such a document was proposed by the legislators of the three factions of Parliament. Who have reason, who would like to comment on this? Please sign up. The faction has been recorded, and now from the deputies, please. Please, Ephraim, please. Alexander Sergiyovich is the head of the committee on questions of parliamentary ethics.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u27	Alexander Alexandrovich, distinguished colleagues, I think that I would like to express the views of many here in this room before deciding on such a document should be suspended and discussed in factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u28	Okay. This can be done. Two factions are requested to hold a consultation. We'll continue the discussion later. Let's take a break for half an hour, please. By 11:45, because the question is difficult and you have to consider everything.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u29	The factions took a break to find out the details of the formulation and the legal accuracy of the approaches provided for in this decision. On behalf of the factions, Adam Ivanovich Martinyuk has the word, please.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u30	Dear colleagues, in the process of consulting factions, after consultation with the factions and leaders of the Supreme Council, we have come to the conclusion that in the proposed draft decision, which you are familiar with, which you have been given, and which the head of the Supreme Council has made public, particularly for our electorate, to make such changes. At the first point, in the first paragraph, to complement it more precisely, although it comes out of the text, but it will be more clear, as it were, that it is necessary to recognize the simultaneous election of the President of Ukraine and the national deputies, to highlight the word “single” at the same time. Although this has been foreseen since that 90 days, since the date of the entry into force of the Act on Amendments to the Constitution. The second and third points, which, so to speak, so far fall out of the context of the ruling, fall out of the context of the decision, we're cleaning out the decision. Then it's number three.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u31	They're in point four.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u32	Yes, they are, they're in the next paragraphs. Then the fourth becomes second and again, in the fourth, which becomes second, to add the word: “Foresee the holding of simultaneous presidential and national elections, these are the final words. The fifth paragraph becomes the third and the sixth. These are the changes, so to speak, where the election is concerned, add a word to it to make it more. detail the holding of simultaneous elections, second, third, drop.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u33	Got it, right? Wait a minute, wait a minute. This is what we're talking about. I'll put it to the vote in the first reading, and then you, who wants to make some remarks, can make them. The point is that we're releasing the second third point because in the fourth paragraph of the project, it comes out of the logic of the second and third paragraph in itself as the content of the laws that have to be worked out. So who wants to vote on this project in the first reading with the correction made by Adam Ivanovich? [[11:53:54]] For 251 Decision taken. Please, what additions may there be? The sand.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u34	Thank you. Sand, faction of the Party of the Regions. Masterful colleagues! I would like to draw attention to the preceding fifth paragraph, which deals with the new edition of the Electoral Law, and it reads “which provides for, inter alia, the holding of elections for the so-called “open party lists of candidates for deputies”. I would like to propose to take down the system itself and to write "with a view to European practice in electoral law". And then the appropriate committee would take different systems, and we would make decisions for Ukraine. If today's "election lists are open," we don't know which ones are yet. That would be very logical, and the committee could work in that direction.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u35	In principle, I don't deny it. Well, I have no right to impose my personal opinion. But the point is that the proportional system remains, except that the lists have to be such that voters see not only the party but also who they vote for. That's what this is about. Please again, Ivan Vasilovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u36	Now, Ivan Vasilovich. Listen, please. Dear colleagues, we're giving the task of preparing a profile committee. That's when a committee of professionals, taking into account the recommendations of the decision, prepares the decision, we're going to look at it in detail, and then we're going to come to a conclusion. It's not a law, it's not a law, it's a committee recommendation to try to prepare. And when we adopt the law, if that happens, then we'll take into account both the world and the European, all the other practices, this law will be the subject of long-term discussions. This is one of the recommendations, and it is not necessary for the committee or you and I, when we adopt the law, to adopt the law as recorded here. It's just the direction of our work. And when we do, we will discuss it with you.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u37	And one more detail. I'd like to have your attention. There are proportional elections in the Constitution. It's written in the Constitution. So when we mention here, we cannot deviate from the Constitution. The European experience is "for", we will follow it, but to bear in mind that the Constitution contains a proportional electoral scheme. Okay. Ivan Vasilovich, are you insisting? No, it doesn't. Is there going to be any more reflection? Teeth, please. Teeth speak, and then Pecknut. Without Hellhound, we won't vote. Please, Zubko. Here, have a seat. And he withdrew his offer in connection with the burning of the Red Lantern, yes. Please, Pecknut.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u38	We respect Alexander Alexandrovich. At the time of my youth, there was a movie entitled "Let's live until Monday". There was a phrase: happiness when you're understood. Thank you for understanding. I'm happy. And I would like us to explain to our voters the philosophy, principles and approaches to this decision very carefully and in detail before we vote. The bottom line is this. We will never, under any illegal order, order or sentence, go to any early elections. The point is, like the classic used to say. Next. We do not exclude the possibility of joint elections. But to that end, the Constitution is being amended, and we provide for this decree, and we are prepared to go through this purgatory with the President.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u39	I don't think we're even going to live to Monday, today, so Alexander Mikolayovich is speaking correctly. Last remark. Leo Mikolaiovich, please. Gnatenko.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u40	I only have one comment. I fully support what has now been said, but in the third paragraph, now in the third paragraph, instead of the word “foresee” – “to study the question of holding elections for so-called open party lists in the light of the experience of Europe’s leading countries”. Instead of "predict" - "learn".
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u41	Leo Mikolaiovich, we all understand what this is about, in this phrase. Today, the social conscience has brought to mind the idea of so - called open party lists. Everyone understands them differently. There's a Polish version, there's other countries. It's really a European experience, it's actually our experience, because it's also being studied, and it's also being used here. So we're going to take all of these nuances into account, but this is about predictions called predictions. And the content of the bill itself that we're going to get soon will answer what's there, and obviously in the explanatory note, and in the context, we're going to predict references to foreign experience. I think this is going to be taken into account, and the wording is legally correct, so I think we can leave it like this. Let Matthew say and we'll vote.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u42	Thank you. I think it might be possible to support a colleague's proposal, but to write in this third paragraph in this way, in a new edition, by generalizing particularly the practice of elections for so-called ones, by generalizing practices, practices, well, I mean world practice, European practice, by generalizing in this law rather than foresight.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u43	Right. Valentin Grigorovich, you're making a very wise offer, but it's not up to this determination. The Supreme Council does not have to generalize the world’s experience; it should use what best meets the needs of Ukrainian society. But here it is, to others, only words are written like you said. You can put to the vote in general, taking into account the deletions of those comments that Adam Ivanovich read, I generally put the draft to the vote. I'm asking you to vote. [[12:01:18]] For 234 Decision taken. So once again, by summarizing the decision taken or by analyzing it, I want to say that. I'm asking for your attention. We are now witnesses, and unfortunately, participants in the process when two Presidential decrees are issued in violation of the Ukrainian Constitution, are blocked to the present moment by a decision of the Constitutional Court, which will be binding on the execution, whatever it may be, and whoever it may be. And no one cares. But understanding that there is too much misinformation about the possibility or the need for elections, and there is much success. The structures of power, particularly the President's Institute, before the law is broken, etc., we have to put it at this point, put it at risk, and we say in an appropriate manner: we are in favour of holding presidential elections at the same time, and we are in favour of Parliament. This requires changes to the Elections Act, amendments to the Presidential Elections Act, all that is necessary to ensure effective and fair elections, including the voter register and so on. And from that point of view, we are making a decision that provides for the possibility of such elections at the end of November in early December, because under the Constitution, elections can be held no less than 90 days after such a right is opened. And this right is revealed by making appropriate changes to the Constitution, which we can make under procedure not earlier than September 2-7 of this year. So both from the legal point of view and from the point of view of the organization of this case, this is a perfectly valid balanced document. We publish it literally tomorrow in the first issues of the newspaper, which can be published on weekends and holidays. That's the whole point of what we voted for. What questions from the procedure, with a motive? Please, Gennady Anatolyovich.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u44	I voted in favour, a.
ParlaMint-UA_2007-04-30-m0.u45	Deputy Savosin claims that he voted in favour, and his card didn't work. So we add his voice, I think the secretariat will take this proposal into account, considering that he's sitting in a session room and he says so. Ladies and gentlemen, now, for your consideration, information on this subject. We hoped that today the Cabinet of Ministers would be able to consider very important documents for society -- changes to the budget law, which concerns the social sphere. But in view of the need to fully follow the procedure for dealing with these issues in ministries, departments, government committees and so forth, and the government guarantees that no later than the fourth number, it will give the Supreme Council a draft law that we can consider here and support. I hope we will support it, because the work on this document, including with the participation of our committees and deputies, is beyond question. The fourth number should be a plenary session that will address this issue. On the other hand, we understand very well that the need to hold a meeting can arise and more quickly, depending on how the political situation develops, and how much our political colleagues will be in the Constitution and in the legal field. That is why we are guided by the Supreme Council's decree adopted early in April on the question that deputies are in Kiev and may convene plenary meetings within half an hour. I'll point you at that, and just in case, in advance, I'll be more loyal to the announcement that the next meeting at 10:00 a.m. in the morning, the 4th number will be here in the session room. Meanwhile, I have reason to declare the morning session closed today. Thank you.
